---

title: Device skins for user role, context, and function and supporting system mashups
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a communication system that provides various automated operations, including searches of public and private resources for third party information and presentation of the located third party information by a mashup and preparation of a mashup to combine different communication modes or modes in a common session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253306&OS=09253306&RS=09253306
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09253306
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100716
---
The present application claims the benefits of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 307 134 filed Feb. 23 2010 which is incorporated herein by this reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to communications and particularly to intelligent telecommunication systems.

Customizing a user interface for a telephony device and or application to suit better a user s preferences is well known in the art. Generally the user customizes the user interface simply by moving icons setting preferences and the like. The basic structure and or features of the device and or application remains static based on the assumption that at least a portion of the user interface is a one size fits all situation.

The nature of the work done by a given user fundamentally differs from role to role and among users by profession to profession. The user s effectiveness and convenience can be enhanced significantly by analyzing the way a user performs his work and more significantly change the way a device works. For example a sales professional heavily relies on his contact manager to manage effectively his customer base. He she further needs to know current product information availability and pricing and what key events are upcoming in the short term. By contrast an engineering professional needs to know the current status of projects and products that she he is working on and have information ready at hand about what the next deliverable is.

A user may be more functionally driven with regard to the use of a telephony device. For example one user is a remote services professional and desires a graphical depiction of the architecture that they are working on complete with an overlay of error messages and a palette of choices about what spares exist on site or what unloaded software patches exist. Another user is an agent in a contact center and needs to pull up past orders e.g. current products owned and display additions and or changes implied by a submitted request for proposal. Specialized computers such as those for specific functions like remote servicing and computing are not integrated completely for both communications and computing.

Mashups are fast replacing portals as a means for combining and presenting information to a user. A mashup is a Web page or application that uses and combines data presentation and or functionality from two or more sources to create a new service. Mashups are generally client applications or hosted online and can easily and inexpensively produce enriched results using open Application Program Interfaces APIs and data sources in a previously unforeseen or unanticipated manner.

Mashup use is expanding in the business environment. Business mashups are useful for integrating business and data services as business mashup s technologies provide the ability to develop new integrated services quickly to combine internal services with external or personalized information and to make these services tangible to the business user through user friendly Web browser interfaces. Business mashups differ from consumer mashups primarily in the level of integration with business computing environments security and access control features governance and the sophistication of the programming tools mashup editors used. Another difference between business mashups and consumer mashups is a growing trend of using business mashups in commercial software as a service offering.

Telecommunications have been slow to adopt mashup technologies and Service Oriented Architectures SOA to integrate and make available disparate data as discrete Web services or applications. A company called Ifbyphone and others have made use of the concept of a telecommunications mashup by linking direct response phone call data with web advertising data and reporting the result via Google Analytics. The Ifbyphone system effectively provides the byproduct data of how effective the web advertising campaign is by jointly displaying the data associated with direct response phone calls. The direct response phone call data is captured by use of a well known system called a voice based form filler application. The output of the form filler application is mapped to a specific web advertising campaign such that correlation between the cause web advertising and effect direct response phone call can be displayed and analyzed via the Google Analytics tool. The logic to combine the web page information with the form filler information and output the combined result into Google Analytics or any other output display format is a very simple telecommunications mashup.

Although phone mashups offer a number of benefits their use has been relatively limited both in scope and capabilities.

These and other needs are addressed by the various embodiments and configurations of the present invention. The present invention is directed generally to an intelligent communication system that determines a user role context presence and or location such as by monitoring user behavior and based on the determined user role context presence and or location performs various operations and or functions.

 a determining by a processor executable mashup stimulus module one or more of a role context presence state and location of a user the determined role context presence state and or location being different from a user request and command to provide an existing specified mashup and

 b in response to step a providing by a processor executable mashup management module one or more of a mashup and output of the mashup to the user the mashup being a function of the determined role context presence state and or location.

 a a processor executable mashup stimulus module to determine one or more of a role context presence state and location of a user the determined role context presence state and or location being different from a user request and command to provide an existing specified mashup and

 b a processor executable mashup management module operable in response to operation a to provide a mashup and or output of the mashup to the user the mashup being a function of the determined role context presence state and or location.

 a determining by a processor executable mashup stimulus module one or more of a role context presence state and location of a user 

 b based on the determined at least one of a role context presence state and location selecting by a processor executable mashup selection and or creation module a mashup to provide output to the user 

 d configuring by a processor executable mashup configuration module the mashup and or mashup output based on one or more of capabilities provisioning and user preferences of the selected computational device and

 e providing by a processor executable mashup management module the mashup and or mashup output to the user.

The various embodiments can change mashups and user interface appearance and or configuration dynamically in response to changing user role context presence and or location thereby increasing substantially user efficiency and convenience. The user can for example receive new mashups and user interface appearances and or configurations as he she goes through his her day from in the office to out of the office changes computational or communication devices and or services different customers or clients. The ability recognizes the reality that the work to be performed by the user profoundly changes the way that the user desires to communicate and enables users to customize their user interfaces and received information in ways that suit their unique likes and dislikes and working styles. The user is able to create an entirely customized new service by the mashup. As a result a single communication device can meet dynamically differing needs of the user.

The embodiments can by using mashups provide easy fast integration frequently using open APIs and data sources to produce enriching results and new services that were not necessarily the original reason for producing the raw source data. Web based mashups can enable linking of multiple resources via known APIs. Business mashups can allow integration of complex business and data services without the costly programming normally required.

The embodiments can further use Service Oriented Architectures SOA to integrate disparate data by making them available as discrete Web services. Web services provide open standardized protocols to provide a unified means of accessing information from a diverse set of platforms e.g. operating systems programming languages and applications . These Web services can be reused to provide completely new services and applications within and across organizations providing business flexibility.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term call log refers to a collection or list of inbound and or outbound calls. A call is typically described by timestamp e.g. date and time of day of call set up termination or receipt call duration called number calling number callee identity and or caller identity.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage and or transmission medium that participate in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read. A digital file attachment to e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives is considered a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium or distribution medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.

The term contact refers to any voice text and or video electronic communication such as a voice call E mail instant message text chat VoIP call and the like.

The term context refers to the set of facts or circumstances that surround a situation or event. Examples of context include current activity e.g. working and not working subject matter purpose or intent of activity presence availability and the like.

The term customer or client denotes a party patronizing serviced by or otherwise doing business with the enterprise

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term electronic address refers to any contactable address including a telephone number instant message handle e mail address Universal Resource Locator URL Universal Resource Identifier URI Address of Record AOR electronic alias in a database like addresses and combinations thereof.

The term EMML or Enterprise Mashup Markup Language is an SML markup language for creating enterprise mashups which are software applications that consume and mash data from variety of sources often performing logical or mathematical operations as well as presenting data. Mashed data produced by enterprise mashups are presented in graphical user interfaces as mashlets widgets or gadgets.

The term icon refers to a small picture or image on a computer display that represents a particular object operation or group of files.

The terms instant message and instant messaging refer to a form of real time text communication between two or more people typically based on typed text. The instant message is conveyed by an instant messaging program offered by a service such as AOL MSN Messenger Yahoo Messenger Live Messenger and Apple s iChat . Generally included in the instant messaging software is the ability to see the presence of another party that is the ability to see whether a chosen friend co worker or other selected person known as a buddy is online and connected through the selected service. Instant messaging differs from ordinary e mail in the immediacy of the message exchange and also makes a continued exchange simpler than sending e mail back and forth. Instant messaging unlike e mail is also generally stateless. Most exchanges are text only though some services now allow voice messaging file sharing and even video chat when both users have cameras . For instant messaging to work both users must be online at the same time and the intended recipient must be willing to accept instant messages. An attempt to send an instant message to someone who is not online or is offline or who is not willing to accept instant messages will result in a notification that the transmission cannot be completed. If the online software is set to accept instant messages it alerts the recipient with a distinctive sound and provides a window that collectively indicates that an instant message has arrived. The window allows the recipient to accept or reject the incoming instant message. An instant message session is deemed to disconnect or be disconnected when the user goes offline refuses to accept an instant message or is suspended by the user failing to respond to an instant message after a predetermined period of time after an instant message is sent and or received. An instant message session is deemed to be reconnected or a call back deemed to occur when the user resumes the instant messaging session such as by responding to an outstanding instant message.

The term mashup refers to a web page or application that uses or combines data or functionality from two or many more external sources to create a new service. To be able to permanently access the data of other services mashups are generally client applications or hosted online. In the past years more and more web applications provide Application Programming Interfaces APIs that enable software developers to easily integrate data and functions instead of building it themselves. Types of mashups include data mashups which combine similar types of media and information from multiple sources into a single representation thereby creating a new and distinct web service consumer mashups which combines different data types which are generally visual elements and data from multiple sources and business mashups which define applications that combine their own resources application and data with other external web services to focus data into a single presentation and allow for collaborative action among businesses and developers and enterprise mashups. Two mashup styles are commonly used namely Web based and server based. Whereas web based mashups typically use the user s Web browser to combine and reformat data server based mashups analyze and reformat the data on a remote server and transmit the data to the user s browser in its final form. An example of a mashup is the use of cartographic data to add location information to real estate data thereby creating a new and distinct Web service that was not originally provided by either source. Another mashup example is a mashup that maps services to display features. In many mashup configurations the mashup operates as middleware system or a system that is between the user interface and the database access software.

The term mashup editor refers to a tool or platform for building mashups which allow designers to visually construct mashups by connecting together mashup components. Exemplary mashup editors include Yahoo Pipes IBM s QEDWiki and Microsoft s Popfly .

The term mashup enabler refer to a tool for transforming incompatible IT resources into a form that allows them to be easily combined in order to create a mashup. Mashup enablers allow powerful techniques and tools such as mashup platforms for combining data and services to be applied to new kinds of resources. An example of a mashup enabler is a tool for creating an RSS feed from a spreadsheet which cannot easily be used to create a mashup . Mashup enablers are often part of mashup editors.

The term metaphor telephone refers to a communication device that displays a metaphorical depiction of a selected object such as a device capability a communication medium a virtual or geographic location and the like. An example is where a communication device richly displays a conference by each participating node s communication capabilities and limitations.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the invention is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated that individual aspects of the invention can be separately claimed.

The term presence refers to a presence state of a user that informs another that wish to contact the user of his availability and willingness to communicate. Examples of presence include free for chat busy away do not disturb out to lunch and the like.

The term presence information refers to any information associated with a network node and or endpoint device such as a communication device that is in turn associated with a person or identity. A common form of presence information is a status indicator of the user s presence. The status indicator is stored in the user s personal availability record called presentity and is made available for other users to convey his availability for communication. Presence information can indicate user status e.g. online or offline user availability e.g. available busy on the phone or out to lunch user s desired contact means e.g. instant messaging circuit switched telephone packet switched telephone cell phone pager etc. that may vary by contactor identity and or contact time and at what endpoint a contactor is most likely to reach successfully the presence service subscriber. Presence information can span a number of different communication channels. The aggregated view of a user s presence that is the availability across all of an individual s SIP enabled devices is called Multiple Points of Presence or MPOP. Examples of information useful in determining a user s presence and availability include information regarding the accessibility of the endpoint device the recency of use of the endpoint device by the person recency of authentication by the person to a network component recency of registration of an endpoint device an endpoint publishing presence information SUBSCRIPTION requests generated by a user agent in the user s endpoint device geographical location of the user using mobile device location information scheduled activities on the user s calendar indications whether or not a user has been reading or sending email and an indication whether the user s email application has an out of office setting. Present information can be for example the electronic address of a device at which the service subscriber is currently deemed to be present and or available.

The terms online community e community or virtual community mean a group of people that primarily interact via a computer network rather than face to face for social professional educational or other purposes. The interaction can use a variety of media formats including wikis blogs chat rooms Internet forums instant messaging email and other forms of electronic media. Many media formats are used in social software separately or in combination including text based chatrooms and forums that use voice video text or avatars.

The term role refers to a function performed by or position or office of an individual or organization. Examples include engineer supervisor employee consultant and the like.

The term skin refers to the function and or appearance and or configuration of a user interface such as a particular mashup and user interface configuration. Exemplary functions refer to one or more of applications services operations materials browser features e.g. browser settings browser favorites and combinations thereof. Typically the function is associated with a mashup. Exemplary appearance refers to the one or more of the specific set of icons displayed displayed icon appearance s e.g. color size design and the like displayed icon arrangement wall paper display theme sounds display background screen saver display color scheme font size screen resolution number content and arrangement of open windows and other settings of user interface parameters. Typically appearance is defined by a user interface configuration.

The term social network service is a service provider that builds online communities of people who share interests and or activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. Most social network services are web based and provide a variety of ways for users to interact such as e mail and instant messaging services.

The term VoIP refers to a family of transmission technologies for delivering packetized voice communications over IP networks such as the Internet or other packet switched networks rather than the public switched telephone network PSTN . Other terms frequently encountered and synonymous with VoIP are IP telephony Internet telephony voice over broadband VoBB broadband telephony and broadband phone. Common protocols for VoIP include H.323 and the Session Initiation Protocol.

The preceding is a simplified summary of the invention to provide an understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is neither an extensive nor exhaustive overview of the invention and its various embodiments. It is intended neither to identify key or critical elements of the invention nor to delineate the scope of the invention but to present selected concepts of the invention in a simplified form as an introduction to the more detailed description presented below. As will be appreciated other embodiments of the invention are possible utilizing alone or in combination one or more of the features set forth above or described in detail below.

The disclosure in various embodiments provides a system and method to perform a variety of operations discussed in more detail below. One operation is to determine based on observations of user behavior and other factors one or more of a current or future role context presence and or location of a user using a variety of monitoring analytical and search mechanisms. The determination can be done for example by observing a subscriber s or user s activities collecting information regarding an incoming or outgoing contact and the like to determine the probable role context presence and or location of the subscriber or user. Another operation is to alter dynamically the skin of the communication device based on one or more of the determined role context presence and or location. The skin can be changed dynamically based on temporal factors location factors and the like. A user interface alteration for example changes a display appearance and or configuration and or activates a new set of mash ups.

The mashup s provide the functional support for the dynamic changes to the user interface and their respective ties to the overall system cloud or services. Each mashup provides an appropriate structure and data to support the determined role context presence and or location of the user. For example where the user is an individual working on the sales of commodities stocks bonds or financial instruments on a trading floor the mashup would access the sales person s contact list trading turret and or dealer board and other such information to make the device into a customized efficient version of the combined communications and computing platform that the user needs. In another example an engineer is at the office working on a specific program and needs access to drawings requirements PERT or GANT chart type materials and the like to efficiently do his job. Selection and configuration of the selected mashup s consider a number of factors such as the capabilities of the subscriber s communication device and the user preferences for the mashup. By dynamically changing skins the communication device can be changed to adapt efficiently to different roles or work of a user different user contexts different user situations and different functions or capabilities of the user.

During an initial set up of the system at least one mashup and associated user interface configuration would be provided. Subsequent pairings of a user interface configuration and the underlying mashup would be possible to add in much the same way as applications can be added to a smart phone. If the owner operator or vendor of the system provides an application development environment and the appropriate underlying structures external development of user interface and mashup pairings would be possible.

The mashup can be preconfigured such as by the user. In this configuration a mashup template is populated by the located information. In another example the mashup is configured dynamically based not only on device capabilities and the type and volume of located information but also on observed user behavior in prior mashup interactions.

In one configuration the architecture includes a mashup stimulus module where the user makes a request of a new mashup via the user interface mashup selection and creation modules to perform collectively structured and viral variations on link system and application discovery to form the mashup a mashup configuration module to align mashup and user interface capabilities provisioning and preferences and a mashup management module to coordinate and efficiently manage the mashup and its components.

The various embodiments and configurations in this disclosure will be illustrated below in conjunction with an exemplary communication system. Although well suited for use with e.g. a system using a server s and or database s the invention is not limited to use with any particular type of communication system or configuration of system elements. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed techniques may be used in any application in which it is desirable to collect and associate related and temporally changing multimedia information for presentation to a user.

The network is commonly packet switched and can be a trusted or untrusted public or private network or combination thereof. Commonly the network represents a combination of a private internal network and a public external network. In one configuration the network is a public network supporting the TCP IP suite of protocols.

The computational device is a software controlled device that includes a memory processor and a user interface . The memory can be any computer readable medium. The processor can be any suitable central processing unit with a microprocessor being typical. The user interface can be any suitable user interface with a graphical user interface being preferred. The graphical user interface offers graphical icons and visual indicators as opposed to text based interfaces typed command labels or text navigation to represent fully the information and actions available to the user. The actions are performed typically through direct manipulation of the graphical elements. The computational device is commonly an IP enabled SIP enabled digital and or analog device. Examples of suitable modified intelligent IP telephones include the Avaya 1600 2400 4600 5400 5600 9600 9620 9630 9640 9640G 9650 and Quick Edition telephones IP wireless telephones such as Avaya Inc. s IP DECT phones video phones such as Avaya Inc. s Videphone and softphones of Avaya Inc. executing on a computer such as a laptop or personal computer. Other types of suitable computational devices include without limitation cellular phones analog phones digital phones Personal Digital Assistant etc. In one configuration the computational device is a metaphor touchscreen based telephone having feature rich capabilities in terms of interacting with telephony computing and other such resources.

The resources include service provider s search engines presence or location information service social network service s personal information manager database s message server s communication server and other resource s .

The service provider s is an entity that provides services to other entities. Usually this refers to a business such as an application service provider network service provider Internet service provider managed service provider and telecommunication service provider that provides subscription or web service to other businesses or individuals. Examples of services offered by service providers include Internet access mobile phone service and web application hosting.

The search engines search for information or resources on the network including information provided by web accessible resources. The information may consist of web pages images information and other types of files. Some search engines also mine data available in databases or open directories. Unlike web directories which are maintained by human editors search engines operate algorithmically or are a mixture of algorithmic and human input. Web engines typically operate through the sequential operations of web crawling indexing and searching. Exemplary search engines include Yahoo Google Internet Explorer Bing Baidu AOL and Netscape search engines.

The presence or location information service provides one or both of presence information and satellite based physical location coordinates. A typical presence service includes a presence service which includes a presence server and an associated presence information database that may or may not be operated by or be external to an enterprise network. The presence server and presence information database collectively track the presence and or availability of presence service subscribers and or their computational devices and provide to requesting entities current presence information respecting selected presence service subscribers. As will be appreciated when the presence service is external to an enterprise the presence service subscribers are different from the enterprise subscribers. The location information service operates a space based global satellite navigation or location system such as the Global Positioning System Galileo Beidou COMPASS GLONASS IRNSS and QZSS. It provides physical coordinates respecting the location of a tracked entity.

The personal information manager contains organizes and or synchronizes subscriber personal information such as contact information or address books electronic calendars personal notes lists e.g. task lists reminders text message archives RSS Atom feeds alerts and project management. An exemplary personal information manager is Outlook by Microsoft Inc. An electronic calendar as will be appreciated includes scheduled events indexed by date and time.

The database s includes enterprise subscriber information such as name job title electronic address information e.g. telephone number email address instant messaging handle direct dial extension and the like subscriber contact lists e.g. contact name and electronic address information other employee records search results and the like. In one configuration the enterprise database is configured in accordance with the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol.

The message service s refer to any text or voice based messaging system. In one configuration the messaging service is a unified messaging server that provides features for integrating real time voice video and text communication services such as instant messaging chat telephony including IP telephony and video conferencing with non real time communication services such as voice mail e mail SMS and facsimile.

The communications server can include a PBX an enterprise switch an enterprise server or other type of telecommunications system switch or server. The communication server is preferably configured to execute telecommunication applications such as the Avaya suite of MultiVantage or Aura applications of Avaya Inc. including Communication Manager Aura Communication Manager Avaya IP Office and MultiVantage Express .

The other resource s include for example any indexed or otherwise searchable information or services available on the network . Other resources include information available on web pages blogs RSS feeds and the like.

Included in the memories of the computational device and or optionally in the memory of the communication server and or located in one or more other network nodes on the network are a mashup stimulus module mashup selection module mashup configuration module mashup creation module toolbox design module and mashup management module . Typically the mashups will execute on the communication server which will provide the output to the computational device . Virtual machines may be employed to enable the computational device to execute one or more otherwise incompatible mashups.

The mashup stimulus module detects a stimulus that triggers a change of the user interface such as by causing a different user interface appearance and or configuration and associated mashup to be selected. The stimulus may be the press of a key selection of an icon receipt of an oral and or textual command input of a destination electronic address receipt of an incoming contact from an identified contactor e.g. identified by electronic address caller ID and the like temporal indicator such as a day of week time of day etc. electronic calendar entry such as an Outlook electronic calendar entry received from the personal information manager identities of files or records accessed by the user the content of a user communication e.g. speech recognition or textual input and the like. The key press icon selection or oral command can request a specific user interface appearance and or configuration indicate a mashup configuration type or request the computational device to create or update a user interface appearance and or configuration. In one configuration the mashup stimulus module identifies a change in user role context presence and or location and initiates automatically and dynamically change of the user interface such as by selecting a new and different pairing of mashup and user interface appearance and or configuration.

User role includes for example executive sales marketing engineering manufacturing services e.g. legal accounting finance broker realtor medical emergency and the like human resources security administrative supervising managing employee consultant remote system service contact center agent contact center subject matter expert contact center supervisor a member with specific duties within a real or virtual social network sequential process coordination and enforcement a member with specific assignments within an overall program data reporting analysis and or distribution function project and or program management systems engineering commodities stocks bonds financial instrument trading management or advisor government entity coordination financial services personal business hobby religious interests family e.g. role can be non work related when driven by a use context that is not work related and combinations thereof.

User context includes for example working in office working home office working traveling working customer site working trade show not working but available for priority items not working but available for certain specified or important parties not working asleep not working vacation not working furlough not working emergency sensed user activity sensed resources including computational or communication devices records files links e.g. hyperlinks RSS feeds and the like accessed by or otherwise in use by user sensed participants in activity involving user and combinations thereof.

User presence for example includes present available by contact mode email at address jimsmith aol.com present available for contact for specified parties otherwise not available not present and available and the like.

User location for example includes a set of satellite based position coordinates a functional location e.g. home office and the like or location expressed relative to a landmark geofence location geopod location within a controlled access structure and the like. Such changes can be identified through for example observations of user behavior context presence and or location.

The mashup stimulus module can further be configured to observe user behavior and activities and associate stimuli with mashups accessed by the user and or user interface appearance and or configuration configured by the user. The mashup stimulus module would typically recommend to the user the association of the observed stimuli with the mashup and or user interface appearance and or configuration and update the mashup and or user interface appearance and or configuration data structure if approved by the user. For example the mashup stimulus module would indicate to the user that the last instance of an observed context that the user had accessed a particular mashup and or user interface appearance and or configuration and request if the user would like the particular mashup and or user interface appearance and or configuration retrieved.

The mashup selection module when a stimulus is detected locates identifies and selects a set of changes to be made to the user interface or a skin for the computational device . Useful mashup and or user interface configuration variations can be requested by the user and discovered by the mashup selection module based on input from the system and or the existing mashup to create a derivative mashup. In one configuration the mashup selection module locates identifies and selects one or more mashups to produce output for presentation to the user via the user interface . The mashup selection module can locate such as by a structured or viral search existing mashups in enterprise database s that may already be associated with the current or other users or in other web accessible resource s that may be associated with or published by parties other than the user. Custom mashups can be created by system support staff. When enough requests are received for a specified mashup the system support staff would create the new mashup.

The mashup configuration module selects a user interface appearance and or configuration to be associated with the selected mashup and configures the mashup s and their output s for presentation by the user interface to the user. This user interface appearance and or configuration can be done at the time of the user selecting and configuring the skin in an interactive session. The mashup may be effected by any suitable technique such as by a mashup enabler. The mashup configuration module not only has the ability to configure mashups and or mashup output but also to rearrange user interface appearance and or configuration components as defined by the selected user interface configuration. Rearrangement of the user interface appearance and or configuration components for instance can be selected from a plurality of alternative user interface appearances and or configurations that the user prefers. In one configuration the various user interface appearances and or configurations are associated with identifiers of computational devices of the user. For example for a specific role context presence and or location a given mashup and or user interface appearance and or configuration would be associated with a specific one of the computational devices of the user. In other words a given mashup and or user interface appearance and or configuration that applies to a selected role context presence and or location would be varied based on the sensed identity or electronic address of the computational device currently in use by the user.

The particular mashup configuration mashup output and user interface appearance and or configuration presented to the user normally depends on the capabilities or provisioning of or user preferences for the particular computational device of the user. The mashup is adapted by the mashup configuration module to the capabilities provisioning and or user preferences of the computational device . In other words the configuration and content of the mashup display varies depending on the device capabilities configurations provisioning and user preferences. For example the mashup configuration module can re arrange or alter the screen appearance and or configuration e.g. the icons menus sounds and the like based on the capabilities of the computational device with the same mashup having differing appearances and or configurations for different computational devices . Device capabilities include for example screen or display size CPUs random access memory capacity volatile memory capacity nonvolatile memory capacity total memory capacity compatible and or hosted communication applications compatible and or hosted communication clients operating system port configurations wireless communication capabilities compatible wired and wireless communication and data protocols codecs bandwidth voice capabilities video capabilities text capabilities and Web capabilities.

By way of example if the computational device has no Web browser capability or provisioning or is otherwise not Web browsing capable the mashup configuration would exclude a Web hyperlink. In another example the computational device is a full featured voice communication device such as a Personal Digital Assistant laptop or personal computer and the mashup and its display would include the fully operational mashup and appearance and or configuration including the Web hyperlink.

The mashup creation module creates mashup s appropriate to the determined user role context presence and or location. Mashup creation may be fully automated or interactive with the user or administrator and effected by any suitable technique such as by mashup editor or enabler. The mashup created would include not only the mashup itself and the associated appearance and or configuration but also the associated stimuli that when detected cause the mashup and associated appearance and or configuration to be selected by the mashup selection module . In one configuration the mashup creation module locates such as by a structured or viral search mashup templates in enterprise database s that may already be associated with the user or other web accessible resource s which are associated with or published by parties other than the user. The mashup templates are customized to suit the particular needs of the user such as by selecting the specific services or applications or output to be combined by the mashup template. In another configuration the mashup to be created is determined based on observing past and present user behavior user preferences predetermined templates and the like.

The toolbox design module is a tool that facilities mashup creation by enabling a user to drag and drop icons links filenames file addresses application identifiers and other objects into a container for functional association of the objects operations or groups of files by a mashup. When the objects operations or groups of files are received by the toolbox design module the toolbox design module provides them to the mashup creation module for mashup creation.

In one configuration the mashup is effected by a series of EMML forms. A first form includes first collected information and a second form second collected information. The first and second collected information and control is passed to a third form which can be a web page hosted on any server coded in any language and either secured or unsecured. The web page receives the collected information as a post or retrieves the information in the same manner as an HTML form. The web page presents the information by the user interface to the user or subscriber. In response to user input the web page outputs a command which can be in the form of an XML file which informs the mashup what to do next. The next step can for example initiate a specified communication mode to a specified computational device of a third party route an incoming call to voice mail disconnect a previously connected call and the like.

The mashup management module coordinates and efficiently manages mashup components and oversees the operations of the various other modules. For example the mashup management module can publish and share a user s mashups to other subscribers or other network users. The operations of the mashup management module will be discussed with a number of configurations.

In one configuration the mashup management module first determines how to pre launch applications and or files before presentation to the user. An example is launching communications and or informational searches from the mashup display launching a word processor from a mashup display and retrieving a specific document launching an electronic spreadsheet from a mashup display and retrieving a specific spreadsheet for display and the like. The pre launched applications would be minimized until the mashup management module determines that they are to be maximized for presentation to the user.

In one configuration the mashup management module pre fetches the information needed e.g. credentials settings preferences locations authentications and the like necessary to efficiently launch an application. In other words the information is prequeued and pregrouped to speed the launch of an application.

In one configuration the mashup management module determines based on one or more of role context presence and or location that the user is currently at a location or in the presence of one or more parties where client sensitive information can be compromised. Even though the mashup selection module has selected a certain pairing of mashup and user interface appearance and or configuration the mashup management module can modify the selection to suppress the display of the sensitive information. When the user is no in danger of compromising the client sensitive information the mashup management module can cease the suppression and display the sensitive information.

In a first example a user receives an incoming call from a caller while the user is on a personal call. The callee decides to take the call and either disconnects the personal call or puts it on hold. The mashup stimulus module compares the telephone address of the incoming call and or caller identification with the user s contact lists maintained by the personal information manager or with call logs and determines that a user interface reconfiguration is needed based upon its determination that the caller is employed by a customer. The mashup stimulus module provides the context to the mashup selection module and mashup configuration module for selection and configuration of a suitable mashup and selection of a user interface appearance and or configuration. The user interface upon connection with the incoming call displays the selected mashup output and user interface appearance and or configuration. If the user were a stock broker and the customer his client the example could produce a display similar to that depicted in which is discussed below . In one configuration the user s wife is placed on hold and the user interface appearance and or configuration components associated with the user s wife are minimized while the user interface appearance and or configuration components associated with the customer are maximized. When the user returns to the wife s call the user interface appearance and or display components associated with the user s wife are again maximized and those associated with the customer minimized or deactivated.

In another example the mashup stimulus module determines from the user s electronic calendar or user s current physical location that the user is visiting a customer s facility. Based on this context the mashup selection module selects a mashup providing customer specific information and the mashup configuration module selects a specific user interface appearance and or configuration. For instance the mashup selection module could provide automatically by a mashup to a service technician real time alarm signals received and being received by a service facility from the customer s enterprise network profiles of hardware and software in use by the customer network topology of the customer s facilities and resources on site at the customer s facility or the nearby service facility to conduct maintenance and or repair functions. The user interface appearance and or configuration provided to the service technician user is specific to the customer the customer s enterprise network and to the alarms received from the customer s enterprise network.

In another example the user transfers a call from his desk phone to a personal digital assistant. The transfer is identified by the mashup stimulus module . The mashup configuration module determines that the user was receiving by the desk phone a specific mashup and associated user interface appearance and or configuration. The mashup configuration module selects a new user interface appearance and or configuration based on the capabilities provisioning and user preferences of the personal digital assistant.

In another example first and second parties are simultaneously on a telephone call and instant messaging session on different computational devices . These two communication sessions are identified by the mashup stimulus module . Upon notification by the mashup stimulus module the mashup selection module selects a mashup to combine the two communication sessions into a single or common user interface appearance and or configuration. The two communication sessions are transferred by the mashup to a common computational device and a user interface appearance and or configuration would provide the computational device with a virtual keyboard displayed on the user interface of the common computational device . This would enable the communicants to converse simultaneously and conveniently by common computational devices at each end of the combined communication sessions.

Yet another example will be discussed with reference to . The mashup stimulus module sensed role of the user is stock broker and context is that a specific customer has called the user. In response the mashup selection module has selected one or more mashups that provide s the depicted output in the upper half of . The output includes display areas for selected security positions which are securities being considered for purchase by the customer real time news announcements on the selected securities economic indicator feeds such as leading lagging and coincident indicators for the economy in one or more selected countries that would influence security performance security trade display segment to permit the user to effect a buy or sell trade directly from the display client contact display segment to permit the user to contact the customer by the same or a different communication mode e.g. email and instant messaging directly from the display client security positions which are the securities currently held by the customer and ticker of selected security prices and or volume for one or more selected security exchanges such as the NASDAQ and NYSE . The lower half of depicts the services and feeds being combined by the one or more mashup s . The communication networks permit the user to contact the customer by the client contact display segment the financial turret of the stock exchange for the selected security positions to permit trades by way of the security trade display segment a calculator program which takes the customer security positions and multiplies the various positions by the current security price to show in display segment and relative to the customer s bases in the securities the performance of the customer s security positions the ticker feed shows the current value s of the selected security positions and or one more stock exchange indexes such as the Dow Jones Industrials Really Simple Syndicate RSS economic indicator feeds provide the economic indicator fees the RSS news feeds to provide the news announcements on the selected securities and finally the positions security watchlist to provide real time data for the selected security positions .

To illustrate the impact of the capabilities provisioning and user preferences on mashup and user interface appearance and or configuration assume that the display of is for a fully functional and intelligent computational device and that the user has a global preference for real time communications with clients with voice communications being most preferred. Further assume that consistent with this preference the client contact display segment is configured for VoIP communications. If the user s presence state changes and he becomes present at a new computational device that is not equipped with VoIP software but is instant messaging capable the display would be altered to make the client contact display segment an instant messaging interface rather than a voice communications interface.

In yet another example the computational device is a conventional digital telephone having a key pad. The key pad is overloaded or redefined to perform the different functions as defined by the mashup. For example the key pad could be redefined to provide an instant message button and an instant message client loaded or otherwise made available to provide instant messaging functionality. Even if the instant message client can not be loaded or executed by the operating system of the computational device the instant message client on a computer associated with the telephone can act as a proxy or intermediate to receive a keyed stream which could be a DTMF stream from the telephone convert it into an equivalent instant message stream and send the instant message stream on to the third party. When a responsive instant message stream is received from the third party the computer could convert it into a comprehensible equivalent stream and forward it to the telephone for presentation by the telephone s display to the user.

With reference to the mashup stimulus module in step detects a stimulus that requires presentation of a mashup and or user interface appearance and or configuration to a user and in step determines and describes the role context presence and or location. The mashup stimulus module provides a suitable notification containing the description to the mashup selection module .

In step the mashup selection module assuming that the mashups already are in existence selects the pertinent set of mashups and provides them and the description to the mashup configuration module . If the mashups are not already in existence the mashup selection module provides the description to the mashup creation module to create the pertinent mashups which are then provided with the description to the mashup configuration module . This step is further discussed with reference to below.

In steps and the mashup configuration module determines the computational device capabilities provisioning and or user preferences and configures the mashup and user interface appearance and or configuration based on thereon. This step can create a problem where the mashup configuration module is executing on a node other than the computational device such as on the communication server . In one configuration the computational device is controlled by the communication server and the capabilities provisioning and or user preferences are maintained by the communication server and therefore readily accessible by the mashup configuration module . In one configuration the mashup configuration module accesses via a presence service not shown presence information indicating the computational device capabilities provisioning and or user preferences. In one configuration the computational device is external to the communication server and the capabilities provisioning and or user preferences are discovered by a series of queries. This configuration only works where the computational device is willing to reveal such information to the mashup configuration module . In another configuration the computational device is external to the communication server and the mashup configuration module provides the desired mashup to the computational device so that the computational device which is self aware of its capabilities provisioning and user preferences can render those parts of the mashup for which it is capable provisioned and enabled by user preferences. In one configuration the mashup configuration module is hosted by the computational device as shown in and is able to access its capabilities provisioning and user preferences from storage. The mashup configuration and user display appearance and or configuration are typically a function of the type and volume of located information and the device capabilities and can be configured statically or dynamically.

In step the mashup management module initiates the configured and selected mashup s and components thereof including the user interface appearance and or configuration elements.

In step the mashup management module provides the initiated mashup s and component s thereof to the user via the user interface .

The mashup selection module in decision diamond determines whether or not a mashup and associated user interface appearance and or configuration are available. If so the mashup selection module proceeds to step . If a mashup and associated user interface appearance and or configuration are unavailable the mashup selection module notifies the mashup creation module which performs decision diamond .

In decision diamond the mashup creation module determines if a template is available for the mashup. When a mashup template is located the mashup creation module in step populates the template. When a mashup template is not located the mashup creation module in step interacts with the user and the toolbox design module to determine the mashup components and configuration.

After performing either steps or the mashup creation module in step updates user records to include the mashup.

In step the mashup management module determines whether or not to share the mashup and associated appearance and or configuration with others.

The exemplary systems and methods of this invention have been described in relation to a telecommunication system. However to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention the preceding description omits a number of known structures and devices. This omission is not to be construed as a limitation of the scope of the claimed invention. Specific details are set forth to provide an understanding of the present invention. It should however be appreciated that the present invention may be practiced in a variety of ways beyond the specific detail set forth herein.

Furthermore while the exemplary embodiments illustrated herein show the various components of the system collocated certain components of the system can be located remotely at distant portions of a distributed network such as a LAN and or the Internet or within a dedicated system. Thus it should be appreciated that the components of the system can be combined in to one or more devices such as a communication server or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network such as an analog and or digital telecommunications network a packet switch network or a circuit switched network. It will be appreciated from the preceding description and for reasons of computational efficiency that the components of the system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network of components without affecting the operation of the system. For example the various components can be located in a switch such as a PBX and media server gateway in one or more communications or computational devices at one or more users premises or some combination thereof. Similarly one or more functional portions of the system could be distributed between a telecommunications device s and an associated computing device.

Furthermore it should be appreciated that the various links connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links or any combination thereof or any other known or later developed element s that is capable of supplying and or communicating data to and from the connected elements. These wired or wireless links can also be secure links and may be capable of communicating encrypted information. Transmission media used as links for example can be any suitable carrier for electrical signals including coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics and may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Also while the flowcharts have been discussed and illustrated in relation to a particular sequence of events it should be appreciated that changes additions and omissions to this sequence can occur without materially affecting the operation of the invention.

A number of variations and modifications of the invention can be used. It would be possible to provide for some features of the invention without providing others.

For example in one alternative embodiment the systems and methods of this invention are implemented in conjunction with a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element s an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hard wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit a programmable logic device or gate array such as PLD PLA FPGA PAL special purpose computer any comparable means or the like. In general any device s or means capable of implementing the methodology illustrated herein can be used to implement the various aspects of this invention. Exemplary hardware that can be used for the present invention includes computers handheld devices telephones e.g. cellular Internet enabled digital analog hybrids and others and other hardware known in the art. Some of these devices include processors e.g. a single or multiple microprocessors memory nonvolatile storage input devices and output devices. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

In yet another embodiment the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in conjunction with software using object or object oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively the disclosed system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this invention is dependent on the speed and or efficiency requirements of the system the particular function and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized.

In yet another embodiment the disclosed methods may be partially implemented in software that can be stored on a storage medium executed on programmed general purpose computer with the cooperation of a controller and memory a special purpose computer a microprocessor or the like. In these instances the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as an applet JAVA or CGI script as a resource residing on a server or computer workstation as a routine embedded in a dedicated measurement system system component or the like. The system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and or method into a software and or hardware system.

Although the present invention describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. Other similar standards and protocols not mentioned herein are in existence and are considered to be included in the present invention. Moreover the standards and protocols mentioned herein and other similar standards and protocols not mentioned herein are periodically superseded by faster or more effective equivalents having essentially the same functions. Such replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are considered equivalents included in the present invention.

The present invention in various embodiments configurations and aspects includes components methods processes systems and or apparatus substantially as depicted and described herein including various embodiments subcombinations and subsets thereof. Those of skill in the art will understand how to make and use the present invention after understanding the present disclosure. The present invention in various embodiments configurations and aspects includes providing devices and processes in the absence of items not depicted and or described herein or in various embodiments configurations or aspects hereof including in the absence of such items as may have been used in previous devices or processes e.g. for improving performance achieving ease and or reducing cost of implementation.

The foregoing discussion of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. The foregoing is not intended to limit the invention to the form or forms disclosed herein. In the foregoing Detailed Description for example various features of the invention are grouped together in one or more embodiments configurations or aspects for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. The features of the embodiments configurations or aspects of the invention may be combined in alternate embodiments configurations or aspects other than those discussed above. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment configuration or aspect. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment of the invention.

Moreover though the description of the invention has included description of one or more embodiments configurations or aspects and certain variations and modifications other variations combinations and modifications are within the scope of the invention e.g. as may be within the skill and knowledge of those in the art after understanding the present disclosure. It is intended to obtain rights which include alternative embodiments configurations or aspects to the extent permitted including alternate interchangeable and or equivalent structures functions ranges or steps to those claimed whether or not such alternate interchangeable and or equivalent structures functions ranges or steps are disclosed herein and without intending to publicly dedicate any patentable subject matter.

