---

title: Method and device for tensile testing of cable bundles
abstract: A standard tensile test device is improved to accurately measure the mechanical properties of stranded cables, ropes, and other composite structures wherein a witness is attached to the top and bottom mounting blocks holding the cable under test. The witness is comprised of two parts: a top and a bottom rod of similar diameter with the bottom rod having a smaller diameter stem on its upper end and the top rod having a hollow opening in its lower end into which the stem fits forming a witness joint. A small gap is present between the top rod and the larger diameter portion of the bottom rod. A standard extensometer is attached to the top and bottom rods of the witness spanning this small witness gap. When a force is applied to separate the mounting blocks, the gap in the witness expands the same length that the entire test specimen is stretched.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08286498&OS=08286498&RS=08286498
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08286498
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100809
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates generally to devices used for tensile testing of cables and in particular to a tensile testing device for use with electrical cables and other non standard composite cables in which elongation data of the entire sample is measured.

Mechanical properties of electrical power and signal cables found on precision spacecraft or other systems must be known if accurate structural models of cabled structures are desired. Until recently electrical cables were not considered an important contributor to the overall dynamics of cabled structures. However the mass of cables relative to the overall structure mass has increased significantly over the last couple of decades as the complexity of structures increased. This trend motivated attempts to develop modeling tools able to accurately capture the dynamics of cabled structures. Cables are composite structures of individual wires twisted together with large fabrication variability and consequently development of analytical models based on properties of individual components is not a feasible approach. The experimental determination of the mechanical properties of cables through tensile axial and lateral tests is much more effective.

The standard tensile test device uses an extensometer mounted directly on the specimen as seen in . The ends of the specimen are pulled apart by the testing frame and load F is measured with a load cell. The extensometer is mounted directly on the specimen under test and measures the specimen s elongation between its two knife edges. The resulting stress measurement can then be reasonably extrapolated for the entire specimen s length for isotropic structures. Testing of composite electrical cables in this manner is not possible mainly because the extensometer cannot be placed directly on the sample. Placing the extensometer directly on the sample leads to erroneous data as the cable surface is not uniform and knife edges can slip. Additionally cables are not isotropic structures and tend to twist during testing due to their construction. Therefore strain measurements on a short cable length may not be accurate for the whole cable length. However if strain is calculated based on the elongation of the entire sample which must be long enough to be representative a more reliable value is obtained. One way to measure elongation of the entire sample is by recording the displacement of the testing frame s cross head displacement but this leads to erroneous results because of the compliance associated with the fixtures grips connecting elements etc . The present invention is designed to overcome these limitations.

The present invention adapts a standard tensile test device to accurately measure the mechanical properties of stranded cables ropes and other composite structures. A standard tensile test device has a test specimen mounted between upper and lower blocks. An extensometer is mounted on a small portion of the test specimen and measures the elongation or strain of that portion of the test specimen under a force or stress applied to separate the upper and lower mounting blocks. The mechanical properties of composite structures such as stranded cables cannot be accurately measured using these prior art devices. Only the strain of a small portion of the cable is measured and this cannot be extrapolated to the entire length of the test specimen.

The present invention employs a standard tensile test device but with the standard extensometer mounted on a witness rather than directly on the specimen. The witness is comprised of two parts a top and a bottom rod of similar diameter with the bottom rod having a smaller diameter stem on its upper end and the top rod having a hollow opening in its lower end into which the stem fits forming a witness joint. The witness is attached to the same mounting blocks as the test specimen with a small gap present between the top rod and the larger diameter portion of the bottom rod. A standard extensometer is attached to the top and bottom rods of the witness spanning this small witness gap. When a force is applied to separate the mounting blocks the gap in the witness expands the same length that the entire test specimen is stretched. The elongation of the entire length of the test specimen is thereby measured using a standard extensometer and yielding a more accurate strain measurement.

In the present invention cable elongation is indirectly measured by using a witness comprised of a top rod and a bottom rod of the same diameter and a witness joint . The upper portion of the bottom rod has a smaller diameter defining a stem that is designed to fit into a hole of slightly larger diameter than the stem in the bottom portion of the top rod . This stem hole structure comprising the witness joint must be longer than the anticipated stretch of the cable under test and be lubricated so as to introduce negligible load during testing. In addition in order to avoid an air spring in the witness joint the top rod has a relief hole at the upper end of the top rod hole . The bottom rod stem and top rod hole of the witness is shown in as being entirely detached. As seen in the stem of the bottom rod fits into the hole machined into the top rod in its operating configuration with a small gap.

The ends of the top and bottom rods opposite the witness joint ends are attached to the top and bottom mounting blocks respectively and provide proper alignment of the witness with the specimen. Set screws may be used to fix the witness ends to the mounting blocks once the cable specimen is ready for measurements and a small witness gap at the witness joint see is set. A standard extensometer is placed across the witness gap between the top and bottom witness rods see . As a load is applied through the testing frame crosshead not shown the top rod moves with the cable s top end and the extensometer records the elongation of the entire cable specimen see . One can easily calculate strain by dividing the cable s elongation to its length. Extensional modulus can then be calculated from the strain stress data. In addition the ultimate strength and elongation can be determined if desired.

The device can be used to measure the mechanical properties of stranded cables ropes and other composite structures.

