---

title: Broadband spiral transmission line power splitter
abstract: The present invention features a broadband radio frequency (RF) device in the form of a power splitter. A broadband spiral transmission line power divider is used to divide power into two powers with a constant phase difference between the two divided powers. The power divider produces large bandwidths.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09257736&OS=09257736&RS=09257736
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09257736
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100902
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to transmission lines and more particularly to broadband spiral transmission line power splitters.

The use of wavelength 90 degree power splitters is well known in the prior art. For example and show a prior art wavelength 90 degree power splitters comprising two hot lines Land Lthat are two unbalanced transmission lines running side by side for a wavelength distance on a dielectric surface sheet . The lines share a common ground plane and have a characteristic impedance Z to ground which is usually 50 ohms. Also referring to the ground plane consists of a top metal ground plane gp and a bottom metal ground plane gp. The two ground planes are held together by metal sides . If the power splitter is made symmetrical about a horizontal plane through the centers of the lines Land L so that the thickness of the space above the lines Land Lequals the thickness of the space below the lines and the unused space inside the cavity formed by the two ground planes gp gp and the two metal sides is filled with the same dielectric material as dielectric then the structure is strip line.

If as shown in thickness is appreciably larger than thickness and dielectric only exists between the lines Land Land ground plane gp the structure is microstrip. In this case there is little or no coupling between ground plane gp and lines Land L and thus ground plane gp serves more as a shield than a ground plane.

A first line Lhas a first end as an input port relative to ground and a second end as an output port relative to the ground . A second line Lhas a first end and is coupled to power of the first line Lwherein the amount of power coupled thereto increases as the coupling between the two lines increases and the separation between the two lines decreases. Even higher degrees of coupling occur if the lines Land Lstart to overlap each other without touching. The coupled output port relative to ground or first end of the second line Lis on the same end as the input end of the first line L. A second end of the second line Lis an isolation or dump port relative to ground and terminates to ground in Z. Ideally when all of the ports are properly matched to Z the resultant phase difference between the outputs of the first and second lines Land Lis 90 degrees and all of the input power is divided between the two output ports with none of it going to the isolation port .

If the power splitter is made with microstrip then access to the ports at the ends of the lines are made by placing connectors on the outside of the splitter located below the ends and below the ground plane gp such as for example at locations and for respective ports and for line L. If the splitter is made with strip line to maintain symmetry the locations are moved up the sides of the splitter to lie coincident with axis of the lines Land L such as for example locations and for respective ports and of lines L. Since the two adjacent ends of the two lines Land Lare usually very close to each other the locations are spread out to allow two corresponding connectors to be placed adjacent to each other and added lengths of transmission line are used to connect the connectors to the ends of the lines.

If the coupled power is less than one half the input power the power splitter is also called a directional coupler because the coupled power depends on the direction of the wave travelling along the line L. When power is applied to input port it travels in a forward direction from the port to output port and some of it is coupled to line Lat coupled port . No power is coupled to isolation port . If instead power were inserted at output port it would flow backwards from the output port to input port and the roles of the coupled and isolation ports would become reversed. Power from the backward travelling wave would couple to port which is now a coupled port and none of the power would couple to port which is now an isolation port. In general if any given port of any first line serves as an input port the opposite port of the first line will be an output port the adjacent port on the second line will be a coupled port and the opposite port of the adjacent port on the second line will be an isolation port.

Because the widths of lines Land Land their separation are much smaller than their 4 length the size of the power splitter is primarily determined by the length of the lines Land L. At lower frequencies this length can become excessive. One well known method to reduce the length of the lines is meandering. The lines Land Lcan be meandered about a center line between the two lines Land L. shows the prior art splitter as where the lines Land Lare separated less and are meandered. Reducing the line widths and their separation further would allow more meander cycles and a much smaller device. Care must be taken to avoid allowing adjacent section of a line e.g. and from coming too close to each other. If the separation becomes too small broadside coupling between the sections and occurs and a second mechanism of power transfer between the line ends is introduced along the straight line direction between the line ends. Only the primary mechanism of power transfer along the transmission line paths of Land Lshould be allowed.

The coupling for the wavelength 90 degree splitter is frequency dependent wherein maximum coupling occurs every wavelength starting at wavelength. Nulls in coupling occur every wavelength starting at zero wavelengths between the maximum points. Normally the splitter is used at wavelength. Because the maximum at wavelength is between nulls at zero and wavelengths the wavelength 90 degree splitter is narrowband as far as constant coupling with frequency is concerned. To obtain broader bandwidth additional wavelength sections of two coupled lines are added to the splitter making it more complex.

A disadvantage of the wavelength 90 degree splitter of the prior art is that its length results in narrowband performance. In the alternative a bifilar spiral appears lengthless in the radiation domain above a cut in frequency. Different circumferential lengths radiate at different frequencies so that radiation always occurs from a circumferential electrical length of one wavelength. When used as a transmission line a length of a bifilar spiral is difficult to define. Starting at a center feed point of the bifilar spiral and moving outwardly in a circular direction the filar of the spiraled transmission line making up the bifilar spiral eventually couples broadside to itself via the other filar at the next turn and then at each succeeding turn with the circumferential length between each turn increasing. If the one dimensional transmission line is of low Zand highly coupled the filar of the transmission line becomes highly coupled to itself and the transmission line starts to appear to be a two dimensional instead of a one dimensional transmission line. Power is transferred in the circumferential direction via the two line transmission line and in the radial direction via broadside coupling. This differs from the 4 90 degree splitter where power transfer is only via the two line transmission line. Thus the two dimensional size and different circumferential lengths may allow broadband behavior.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 133 891 hereby incorporated by reference describes spiral transmission lines. This patent describes two spirals that are crossed to form two crossed transmission lines comprising elements for feeding and matching a quadrifilar helix. The two transmission lines are approximately balanced and are of constant or smoothly changing Zwith length except for the last of a turn of any given element on the outermost circumference. For a given transmission line length the given filar has filars on both of its sides. However for the last turn the given filar has only one opposite filar which is on the side closest the feed points the central region of the spiral. This increases the Zof the transmission line along this turn causing a mismatch.

The mismatch shows up as a small increased antenna mismatch when the transmission line is used to feed and match the antenna. If the width of the filar is increased in the area of the turn to increase capacitance to the opposite filar the Zbetween the turn of filar and its opposite transmission line filar decreases back to normal. But now the capacitance between the opposite filar and its two surrounding opposite filars which includes the widened turn of filar becomes larger than normal resulting in its Zbecoming lower than normal. Thus this attempt at fixing the first mismatch of the turns of filar creates a second mismatch.

The present invention features a broadband radio frequency RF device in the form of a power splitter. A broadband spiral transmission line power splitter is used to divide power into two powers with a constant phase difference between the two divided powers. The power splitter produces large bandwidths.

A bifilar spiral power splitter as illustrated in and is made by modifying the traditional wavelength 90 degree power splitter shown in . A bifilar spiral composed of interleaved filars and is placed between a common ground plane formed by a top ground plane and a bottom ground plane both of which are supported by metal sides . Ends of the filars and are fed or feed against the common ground in a 50 ohm system as opposed to the filars and being fed against each other at the center of the spiral .

If the bifilar spiral power splitter is made of microstrip the distance between the top ground plane and the filars and is significantly larger than the distance between the filars and and the bottom ground plane and the space above the spiral is air. This causes little coupling between spiral and top ground plane and thus the top ground plane is only a shield. Between the spiral and bottom ground plane is an insulating dielectric substrate through which the spiral mostly couples to the bottom ground plane . Connectors are placed on the outside bottom of the bottom ground to connect to the filar ends and port locations at locations and .

If the bifilar spiral power splitter is made of stripline the top and bottom separations and are equal and insulating dielectric substrate is on both sides of the spiral and the adjacent ground planes and . Coupling to both ground planes and is equal. The connectors are moved to be in line with the spiral plane. The two connectors on the outer edges of the spiral are moved up the metal sides to connect to the outer spiral ends at locations and . For the inner ends of the spiral a metal cylinder of radius less than the radius of an inner end of a filar or is centered on the vertical axis of the spiral to connect to the top and bottom ground planes and . Material from the two ground planes and and part of the insulating dielectric substrate are removed to allow for the presence of the metal cylinder . The two connectors on the inner edges of the spiral are moved up the sides of the metal cylinder to connect to the inner spiral ends at locations and . To allow for the size of the connectors the inner radius of the spiral is increased. As an alternative an added length of coaxial cable can be used to extend the connection point to the bottom of the bottom ground plane where connectors would be added.

The bifilar spiral power splitter may have broadband properties since a first filar is coupled on both sides by a second filar and the transmission lines composed of coupled filars and relative to ground take on a two dimensional form where a radial cross section crosses continuously alternating sections between the first filar and the second filar . As the spiral radius increases the bifilar spiral has circumferences of transmission line that increase in length. The broadside coupling between the varying circumferential lengths of transmission line may allow broad banding or large bandwidths e.g. 2 1 .

Referring now to there is illustrated a slightly modified and detailed embodiment of the present invention wherein one of the bifilar spirals of the previous described two open crossed bifilar spirals of U.S. Pat. No. 6 133 891 is modified by placing it above ground plane to form bifilar spiral power splitter having broadband properties as described in the previous paragraph.

The power splitter illustrated in and comprises a fiberglass board having a thickness of 1 16 of an inch. The bifilar spiral has two filars shaped as an Archimedean spiral. The filars are copper plated and attached to a surface of the fiberglass board . The bifilar spiral has a width of 4.3 inches. The filars have a width H of 3 32 of an inch and the separation between the filars is approximately 3 32 of an inch except for the last of a turn designated as C . This is so because the widths of the filars taper down to a fine strip at their ends most distant from a center axis of the bifilar spiral . The filars have beginning points near the center of the spiral commonly used as the feed points for a normal bifilar spiral by itself. The beginning points are operatively connected to extended center conductors of coaxial connectors . The coaxial connectors are preferably SMA coaxial connectors. The center conductors protrude through a backside of the fiberglass board to the filar ends. The outer conductors of coaxial connectors are soldered to a copper tape or copper plated ground plane which covers the entire backside of the fiberglass board .

The ends of the filars that are furthest from the beginning points at the outermost circumference of the bifilar spiral are operatively connected to center conductors respectively of 2 coaxial connectors and . The coaxial connectors are preferably SMA connectors. The center conductors protrude through the backside of the fiberglass board to the filar ends. The outer conductors are soldered to the ground plane which covers the backside of the fiberglass board . However the end lengths of the filars starting at points are tapered at the last of the turn and add excessive inductance to the impedance of the filars when the power splitter is matched to 50 ohms with the center conductors of connectors and connected to filar ends J and J located at H and H. Thus to correct this the filars are terminated before the taper starting at by adding gaps G G in the filars and connectors and are moved before the gaps where their center conductors and are connected to filars and . The gaps G G are made across the filars . The gaps G G disconnect the last turn of the filars . Disconnecting the filars before the taper ensure that the filars have a constant width. The tapers starting at points of the filars are not removed to maintain a gradual transition from conductor to nonconductor along the circumferential and radial directions.

A second ground plane is placed over and insulated with a dielectric layer from the bifilar spiral thereby placing the filars between two ground planes similar to a stripline configuration. If dielectric layer is removed and ground plane is placed high enough above the spiral to prevent coupling to the spiral then the configuration is microstrip. By placing the filars between the ground planes the bifilar spiral is precluded from radiating. However the impedance of either of the filars or with respect to the first ground plan is greater than 50 ohms because of the smaller than required width of the filars and . To lower the impedance to 50 ohms the distance of the second ground plane from the bifilar spiral is adjusted until a low VSWR is realized at any of the inputs of any connectors attached to the bifilar spiral power splitter any given port with all other connectors ports terminating in 50 ohms.

The ground planes and are normally operatively connected together by placing metal sides around the entire perimeter of the fiberglass board . The combination of the ground planes and the metal sides encloses and shields the power splitter .

For the configuration of power splitter to be made truly stripline then it is made symmetrical about horizontal plane that passes through the plane of the spiral . The distance between the spiral and top ground plane is made the same as the distance between the spiral and bottom ground plane . The connectors are moved up and rotated so that their center conductors lie horizontally in plane . Connector is moved up to location and its outer conductor is instead soldered to metal side . Connector is moved up to location and its outer conductor is instead soldered to metal side . For the inner connectors a vertical metal surface is provided by drilling a hole about the vertical axis in the structure to allow insertion of a metal cylinder . The top of cylinder is soldered to the edge of the resultant hole in ground plane . The bottom of cylinder is soldered to the edge of the resultant hole in ground plane . Connector is moved up to location in the metal cylinder and its outer conductor is instead soldered to the inside surface of metal cylinder . In the same fashion connector is placed at location . If there is no room inside the cylinder for connectors and then they are placed outside of the splitter and short lengths of coaxial cable are used to connect them to their respective locations and .

In an alternative embodiment shown in the filars are required to be overlapped because of higher desired coupling between the filars . Overlapping is done by flipping over one of the filars to lie on the dielectric layer which lies on the second ground . Optionally the inner center conductor and outer connector of connector and the outer center conductor and outer conductor of connector are flipped over so that the outer conductors of the connectors lie on and connect to the second ground . The locations of the optionally flipped over connectors is shown in the locations of the not flipped over connectors is shown in . The filar becomes filar and optionally center conductors and outer conductor of connector becomes alternate center conductor and outer conductor of connector and center conductor and outer conductor of connector becomes alternate center conductor and outer conductor of connector . In essence the filars and optionally center conductor and outer conductor of connector and center conductor and outer conductor of connector are replaced by filar and optionally the alternate center conductor and outer conductor of connector and the alternate center conductor and outer conductor of connector . Further the filars are widened by width HH . The dielectric layer is inserted between the filars and to keep them from touching each other.

With four connectors placed on the bifilar spiral power splitter and the structure adjusted for a 50 ohm system S parameters were measured between all ports that are not symmetrical between 0 and 400 MHz for the power splitter shown in without dielectric and sides and .

The power splitter has ports and located near outside ends of the bifilar spiral at the truncated end of the filars before the gaps and are shown further apart than ports and which are the beginning points of the bifilar spiral . Since the ports must physically connect to the outside world the coaxial connectors connected to these port points are more appropriately called the ports. Thus e.g. connector can be considered the port at instead of .

Measurements are described in the table below. Unused ports for a particular measurement are shown terminated to ground. The port order for the S parameters is reversed and not in the normal convention e.g. Sis written as S . This is to emphasize the physical paths from one port to another whereas normal convention emphasizes power at an output port relative to power at an input port. A measurement is taken with one ground and then a measurement is taken with two grounds and . For lower frequencies radiation from the one ground measurement is insignificant. However at higher frequencies radiation is significant and the presence of the second ground is needed to prevent unwanted radiation.

The removal of the metal sides also allowed some adjusting of coupling between filars by adjusting the height of the top ground planes relative to the spiral . The more a filar is surrounded by ground the less it couples to adjacent filars. The top ground plane is more of a floating ground than a true ground because with the sides missing it is not connected to the bottom ground plane and the cables outer conductors. However the filars and can still couple to ground via coupling to the top ground plane since the top ground plane itself is highly coupled to the bottom ground plane when it is close to it. When the top ground plane is far enough from the spiral or missing the structure is microstrip. When it is close enough so the spiral can couple to it the structure is a modified form of strip line. Physically the second ground was implemented by holding a metal plate at a short distance above the bifilar spiral or by inserting a thin layer of foam plastic between the spiral and the metal plate. The following measurements were taken 

The first four sets of measurements were performed to ascertain how well the power splitter was matched. The tapered outer ends of the filars and added excessive inductance. Thus the ends of the filars and were terminated prior to the taper starting at . With only the first ground plane on the power divider the impedance on a Smith Chart was found to be centered at approximately 65 ohms. Adding the second ground increased shunting between the filars and ground plane lowering the impedance to the desired 50 ohms although the impedance locus was not as tight as for the case of 65 ohms. VSWR measurements indicated that the low frequency area of 0 to 500 MHz was reasonably matched. It is desirable to have the power splitter operating in a well matched area where it does not radiate. For a general idea of where the spiral can be expected to radiate for the bifilar fed by itself in free space with a diameter of 4.3 inches radiation starts at 874 MHz. This is defined as a radiation cut in frequency. The addition of one ground plane to the bifilar spiral raises cut in a large amount. The addition of two grounds will ensure almost no radiation making an even higher cut in. A higher radiation cut in allows raising the power divider s operational frequency. Thus with radiation starting well above 500 MHz it is desirable to improve the match beyond 500 MHz if possible if operation at higher frequencies is desired.

Measurements 5 7 referenced in the table of 17 measurements above were taken when an outer radius port connector is an input port feeding through to an inner radius port as an output port or as an isolation port connector or or to the other outer port as a coupled port connector . Measurement 5 is of Swith a reference phase being set at 0 degrees between port and port and indicates the loss through a filar path. The loss at 0 Hz is 0 db but it increases to 2 db at 400 MHz. Measurement 6 is the difference when the output is switched to the isolation port . From about 40 to 400 MHz there was seen an approximately flat response. The phase of Srelative to Sis 110 degrees and the Spower transfer is 28 db 2 db. This is a broadband power divider because 400 MHz 40 MHz is a 10 1 bandwidth. However its power level is significantly lower than the 19 db of the couple port discussed below. Further measurements found that small adjustments of the distance between the second ground plane and the spiral could bring the phase difference to 90 degrees.

A cut in frequency was seen in Sat 40 MHz. The cut in frequency is defined as the frequency below which the amplitude response drops significantly with decreasing frequency. This is due to the fact that at 0 Hz the response is being measured across two lines that are simply a capacitor. Above 400 MHz the flat response was lost. This may be due to the size of the bifilar spiral .

Smeasurement 7 of the coupled port showed a wavelength cyclic amplitude response of about 19 db starting at a filar wavelength length at 35 MHz. The filars are approximately 57.6 inches in length which is wavelength at 51.3 MHz. Dielectric loading due to the fiberglass brought this frequency down to 35 MHz. Nulls occur every wavelength of filar length. The phase response was not the constant phase seen in a prior art 90 degree splitter. From 0 to 400 MHz phase cycled every wavelength about 145 degrees with overall phase decreasing with each cycle.

Overall when comparing the spiral splitter with the prior art 90 degree splitter there are similarities and differences. Isolation power is low but its phase is constant which allows it to be used as an inefficient broadband power splitter. The prior art splitter isolation phase is not constant. Coupled power is significantly higher and cycles every wavelength but its phase is not the constant 90 degrees of the prior art splitter which allows the coupled port of the prior art splitter to be used as a narrow band power splitter. This disallows the coupled port from being used for power splitting. Thus the spiral splitter has a better constant phase and amplitude response on what would be the isolation port on a normal prior art 90 degree splitter.

The second ground plane was removed to see the effects of increased broadside coupling. Thus measurements 8 10 repeat measurements 5 7 but without the second ground plane. Differences are isolation response Shad a flatter broadband phase response and it swapped to negative at 90 10 degrees. Samplitude increased significantly from 28 db 2 db to 12 db 2 db from 50 to 290 MHz with a null at 370 MHz. Flatness bandwidth decreased. The null and reduced flatness may be due to some radiation at higher frequencies. Shad a much lower cut in frequency. Coupling port S amplitude changed from 19 db to 125 db. The significant increase in Sand Sshows removal of the second ground allows significant increase in broadside coupling. More importantly the power level of the broadband isolation port is slightly more than the power of the unusable coupled port making the splitter more usable.

Because unlike the normal 90 degree splitter the ports on both ends of the filars of the spiral splitter are not symmetrical measurements 5 10 were repeated with the change of the bifilar spiral being fed from an inner port instead of an outer port. This can be looked upon as corresponding to measuring the S parameters of a 90 degree power splitter in the reverse direction. Measurements 11 17 are the measurements when the bifilar spiral was fed from an inner port to the outer ports or to the other inner port. Thus the Sand S output ports measurements correspond the Sand S isolation ports measurements correspond and the Sand S coupled ports measurements correspond. Measurements of the corresponding responses between inner fed and outer fed cases yield the following results. For the case with the second plane removed measurements 15 to 17 and 8 to 10 coupled and isolation responses were similar except the coupled phase of Sstarted to cycle every half wavelength about zero degrees. For the case of the presence of the second ground plane measurements 11 to 14 and 5 to 7 coupled and isolation responses were similar except for the inner fed case of isolation S Shad a wider bandwidth than the outer fed case of S. The bandwidth was from 40 to 500 MHz at 12.5 1. A change in performance was found for Swhen the second ground was placed tighter on the bifilar spiral . The cut in frequency was reduced in half and the phase response went from approximately 100 degrees to a flatter 90 degree response. The prior flat response of 27 db 2 db was found to become 20 db 2 db for a bandwidth from 20 to 400 MHz or a 20 1 bandwidth. For the inner fed case of coupled power Sthe magnitude decreased to about 27 db. Some of the wavelength magnitude nulls were partially filled in and the phase mainly cycled every 4 wave length about zero degrees and for some part of the zero to 400 MHz band was reasonably flat.

Overall the case that is most usable for a power splitter occurs at the second port where the power to be divided has broadband constant magnitude and phase response and has more power than the other unused port. For the spiral power splitter the used broadband port is the isolation port and the unused port becomes the coupled port. The following table determines the case where the used port has the most relative power 

In conclusion the power splitter provides a design producing approximately flat broadband responses and large bandwidths. The power splitter appears to have little directivity when compared to known 90 degree splitters. In fact when compared to a known 90 degree power splitter what would be considered the isolated port performs better at coupling a flat magnitude and phase response than what would be considered the coupled port. Additionally in conclusion the presence of the second ground plane was found to be a critical factor in determining the phase of the isolated port. When this second ground plane is brought close enough to the spiral the phase shifts from 90 to 90 degrees.

In alternative embodiments the filars of the bifilar spiral of splitter are placed closer to each other or even overlapping each other to increase coupling to the extreme case of even power division for a 3 db splitter.

The spirals previously described are Archimedean spirals however equiangular spirals or spirals built with other smooth math functions can also be used. Further the spirals are flat however the spirals can also be conical or cylindrical shaped resulting in a three dimensional power divider. The splitter is also easier to design and build than a prior art broadband 90 degree splitter since there are no multiple sections.

In light of the above it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

