---

title: Semantic content searching
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed that provide for document retrieval where a user can identify key attributes of potential target documents that are desirable (e.g., have a particular semantic content for the user). Further, relevant documents that comprise the desired semantic content can be retrieved. Additionally, the user can provide feedback on the retrieved documents, for example, based on key semantic concepts found in the documents, and the input can be used to update the classification. For example, this process can be iterated to improve the retrieval and precision of documents found through machine learning techniques.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08380719&OS=08380719&RS=08380719
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08380719
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100618
---
Document retrieval in an enterprise setting can be a very important issue particularly when one wishes to find critical information in a timely manner. For example in a healthcare setting it may be useful to find relevant alternate cases for a case that a doctor is currently working on such as to find a pattern and or particular treatment. As an example the doctor may be interested in finding previous patients who are both smokers and have allergy to aspirin. Typically document searching involves keyword searching where a relevant word that may be found in a document is input to a search engine and those documents that comprise the keyword are retrieved. Document retrieval can be performed on an enterprise database such as a hospital a distributed database and online resources such as the Internet.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Currently free text searching such as by keyword often results in too few or too many results. As an example when performing a keyword search using an Internet based search engine millions of results can be returned. Reviewing the returned results for a keyword search can be time consuming and often frustrating as relevant information is often lacking in returned document. For example a user may be looking for documents with words or phrases that have particular connotations but the search engine returns irrelevant documents that may comprise the same keywords but having different meaning. As a further example English words and phrases often use the same words that have completely different meanings e.g. bass could mean a fish instrument or shoe . However a user may wish to quickly retrieve critical information from a large database.

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed herein that provide for document retrieval where the user can identify the key attributes of potential target documents that are desirable e.g. have a particular semantic content for the user . Further relevant documents that comprise the desired semantic content can be retrieved. Additionally the user can provide feedback on the retrieved documents for example based on key semantic concepts found in the documents and the input can be used to update the classification. For example this process can be iterated to improve the retrieval and precision of the documents found through machine learning techniques.

In one embodiment for document searching by semantic content an end user selection is received of a desired first portion of an initial document from a database comprising potential target documents where the initial document comprises metadata labels that describe attributes of components of the initial document and the selected first portion comprises components of the initial document that have desired semantic content for the user. The initial document along with the selected first portion is run through one or more trained classifiers in order to identify a first potential target document from the database that has a second portion which comprises a same semantic content as the first portion e.g. selected by the user .

In this embodiment if the second portion does not have the same semantic content as the first portion an end user selection is received of a third portion of the first potential target document where the third portion comprises the same semantic content as the first portion. Further the first potential target document along with the selected third portion is run through the one or more trained classifiers to identify a second potential target document from the database where the second potential target document has a fourth portion that has the same semantic content as the third portion.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

For example a document can be parsed in order to determine a grammatical structure for the document. That is a document may comprise a sequence of tokens such as words and the sequence s can be tokenized into individual components and the components labeled according to their grammatical structure e.g. type of word such as noun verb . Further some types of parsing may allow a particular context to be determined for respective components e.g. a medical term an engineering term etc. . In one embodiment the documents in the database may have been previously parsed in accordance with a user s desired use and respective components e.g. words text blocks etc. are labeled with metadata labels that can describe their type and even context for example.

Further in one embodiment a user can select a portion of the document that comprises desired semantic content. That is for example the user may select a portion of a radiology report that identifies a recommended follow up within three weeks. In this example the recommendation of having the patient return for a follow up visit within three weeks comprises semantic content in that it has a particular meaning in context with the surrounding words and the radiology report. For example the recommendation of a follow up may be written is several different ways but the meaning that the words connote a very specific. As another example a diagnosis section of a doctor s report may include words such as the diagnosis is . . . I think the patient has . . . the findings indicate . . . or many other variations. However again the meaning of the diagnosis can be very specific.

In one embodiment the initial document may be selected by the end user such as a doctor or some other end user that wishes to identify a plurality of documents in a database having a particular semantic content. For example an end user may be tasked with identifying the customer report documents in an enterprise s database where a complaint was identified that involved poor response time. In this example the poor response time comprises semantic meaning that could be written in a variety of ways. In the past an IT professional may be called to set up a search train a classifier run tests reset and adjust the system to identify the desired documents. In this embodiment the end user such as an administrative assistant customer service representative or another for example may select the desired semantic content to identify the desired documents.

At the initial document which has the selected first portion is run through one or more trained classifiers in order to identify a first potential target document from the database. In this embodiment the first potential target document has a second portion that has a same semantic content as the first portion which was selected by the end user. For example one or more classifiers may be trained to identify words in a document using a variety of techniques such as Hidden Markov Model HMM Support Vector Machines SVMs Conditional Random Fields CRF Statistical Language Models and others.

Here for example the classifier s can attempt to identify a target document from the database that has the same semantic content identified by the end user in the initial document. Further in this example the classifier s can attempt to highlight a portion of the target document second portion that comprises the same semantic content as the portion highlighted by the end user first portion . In this way the classifiers are used to find documents having the content desired by the end user which may or may not use the same words but has a same meaning for example.

At in the exemplary method if the second portion does not have the same semantic content as the first portion an end user selection of a third portion of the first potential target document is received where the third portion comprises the same semantic content as the first portion at . For example the portion of the target document highlighted by the classifier s may not have the same desired semantic content as that selected by the end user from the initial document. That is the classifier may have misclassified the semantic content and selected content from the retrieved target document that does not match the end user s desired content.

As an example when the classifier s returns misclassified content the user can review the target document and select content third portion that corresponds to the their desired semantic content e.g. same as first portion from initial document . At the first potential target document which has the selected third portion can be run through the one or more trained classifiers to identify a second potential target document from the database. Here the second potential target document comprises a fourth portion that has the same semantic content as the third portion.

As an example the first document returned by the classifier s is reviewed by the end user after determining that the classifier s did not identify the correct content they highlight the correct content and rerun it through the classifier s . The classifier s can then return another document from the database with a highlighted portion that has the end user s desired semantic content. In one embodiment the step at can be iterated for example until a desired semantic content is retrieved by the classifier s for a target document from the database. In this way in this example the classifier s can be further trained to identify the end user s desired semantic content.

As an example a hospital administrator may wish to identify those patients for which the doctor has recommended a follow up visit such as to identify if a follow up occurred and or what was the result of the follow up. In this example the documents stored by the hospital may run into the millions and performing merely a semantic content search on this sized document collection may be cumbersome. Therefore the administer can conduct a keyword search of the collection such as using the words follow up re examine return and some others that have a similar meaning. The results of the keyword search can be used populate a target database comprising potential target document which can be search from semantic content for example.

At in the exemplary embodiment the end user can select desired text e.g. comprising desired semantic content in an initial document . As an example the hospital administrator may identify a document that contains a doctor s recommendation that the patient return for a check up with one month. In this example the administrator can select this portion of the doctor s report as comprising the desired semantic content for their semantic content search. At the initial document with the selected text is run through the classifiers .

In one embodiment running the document through the classifiers comprises instructing the classifiers to find the selected type of text in a document in the target document database . A plurality of trained classifiers can be used concurrently to retrieve potential target documents from the database. In one embodiment the end user may identify which of the plurality of classifiers has a desired accuracy rate for retrieving potential target documents for the desired semantic content. In this embodiment the identified classifier may be used to retrieve target documents from the database for the desired semantic content for example so that the retrieval is performed more quickly and with less error.

In another embodiment a second classifier may be used to cross validate a potential target document retrieved by a first classifier. Further a combination of two or more classifiers can be identified that has a desired accuracy rate for retrieving potential target documents for a desired semantic content. In this embodiment the identified combination of classifiers can then be used to retrieve documents from the database for the desired semantic content.

Based on whether the classifier has correctly identified the content and or document the accuracy rate can be determined for the respective classifiers. In this example the classifier C appears to have a highest accuracy rate. Therefore a user may decide to merely utilize C to perform the target document retrieval for the particular semantic content. As an example different semantic content and or different types of documents may yield different results of accuracy for classifiers. Therefore in one example classifier C may not yield a same accuracy rate for different content and or documents.

Returning to a potential target document is retrieved from the database . At it is determined whether the potential target document meets the selection criteria for example such that the document comprises selected content that corresponds to the desired semantic content selected by the end user. If the second portion found in the potential target document has the same semantic content as the first portion selected by the end user in the initial document the end user can indicate that the classifiers have correctly identified the desired semantic content in the target document and at the classifiers can be updated with this information.

That is in one embodiment user input from potential target documents returned by the one or more classifiers can be used to update the one or more classifiers. In this way for example the classifiers are trained to identify the appropriate documents that comprise the desired semantic content. Further after updating the classifiers with an indication that the retrieval was correct the one or more classifiers can be run over the database again to select a third potential target document . This process can be iterated over the database to retrieve a plurality of appropriate target documents.

However at if the retrieved target document does not identify content that has the same semantic meaning as the end user selected content at the user can select a portion of the returned document that comprises the desired semantic content. For example the end user may have selected a social security number SSN in the initial document intending for the classifiers to retrieve SSNs from the documents in the database . However after running the initial document through the classifiers the potential target document identified a telephone number. In this example the end user can then indicate that the classifier s e.g. one or more of them incorrectly identified the semantic content and then highlight the correct information the SSN in the document.

The corrected document can be run through the classifiers again at to retrieve a second potential target document . In one embodiment the portion of the potential target document second portion identified by the classifiers may not have the same semantic content as the first portion and the potential target document may not comprise content that has the same semantic content of the portion of the initial document selected by the user first portion . That is the document returned may not have any matching content for the user to select for rerunning through the classifiers.

In this embodiment the end user can indicate that the first potential target document does not comprise content that has the same semantic content of the first portion and the classifier s can be updated with this information at . Further the one or more classifiers can then be run over the database to select another potential target document third potential document . As an example if this document meets the selection criteria at the classifiers can be updated again to facilitate training them to identify the appropriate semantic content.

In one embodiment the end user may provide input to the classifier training for updating the classifiers e.g. making them more accurate . For example for respective documents the end user may indicate the document retrieved from the database by the one or more classifiers comprises desired semantic content. Further they may indicate that the document retrieved from the database by the one or more classifiers does not comprise desired semantic content. Additionally they may provide a selected portion of the document retrieved from the database by the one or more classifiers where the selected portion comprises desired semantic content.

In this embodiment a threshold may be set for the classifiers when retrieving target documents for example. In this embodiment a plurality of documents can be run through the one or more classifiers until a desired threshold is reached which can be determined at . A desired threshold may comprise different criteria which may be selected by the end user or automatically set e.g. by default .

In one embodiment the plurality of documents can be run through the one or more classifiers until a desired document selection accuracy is reached for desired semantic content. For example a user may wish that the document retrieval is one hundred percent accurate as the information is critical or may be satisfied with a ninety percent accuracy where the accuracy is not as important.

Further in another embodiment the plurality of documents can be run through the one or more classifiers until a desired number of correct documents are retrieved without an incorrect document being retrieved. For example the user may be satisfied when the document retrieval returns one hundred correct documents without any errors and then may let the retriever run unsupervised. In another embodiment the plurality of documents can be run through the one or more classifiers until a desired number of documents have been retrieved from the database. For example the end user may merely need one thousand document for their desired purpose and can run the document retrieval until that number has been reached.

At if the desired threshold is not met the classifier s are run over the database to select another potential target document at . Further respective potential target documents that are selected and meet the selection criteria are stored in a target document database . If the threshold is met at the exemplary embodiment ends at .

In one aspect the one or more classifiers are can be decision engines that calculate a likelihood that a potential target document in the database comprises the desired semantic content. In one embodiment a classification threshold may be provided e.g. by the end user or by default for the classifier s that determines whether the document should be presented for end user input. That is for example a type of semi supervised training may take place where the classifier s present the document only when they are unsure about the classification results.

As an example in a SVM the decisions e.g. yes the document comprises the semantic content or no it does not about a document can be plotted in a matrix to determine which side of the decision matrix they fall. In this example there may be a margin between the yes and no portion of the matrix where the SVM is uncertain about the decision. In this embodiment for example this margin may comprise a threshold where the classifiers present the document to the end user for input as to whether the document comprises the desired semantic content. That is the desired threshold may comprise an uncertainty threshold for a classifier model and the document in question is presented to the user merely when the classifier model s calculation falls within the threshold.

A system may be devised for finding documents that comprise a particular semantic content for example. is a component diagram of an exemplary system for searching by semantic content. A memory component stores a database that comprises a plurality of potential target documents. A processor component is operably coupled with the memory component and is used to execute instructions for one or more classifiers . In one embodiment the memory component and processor component may be disposed on a same computing device. In other embodiments these components may be separately disposed and or may reside on a same computing device as other components in the exemplary system .

An end user input receiving component receives end user input for a document such as one retrieved from the database and or an initial document that may be used to seed the database for example. The input provided by the end user can comprise end user selection of a desired portion of a first document from the database where the selected portion comprises document components of the initial document that have desired semantic content. For example the end user may provide an initial document to seed the database by selecting a portion of the initial document e.g. text words in the document that have a desired semantic content for the user .

Further the input provided by the end user can comprise end user indication that a second document retrieved from the database comprises a same semantic content as the selected desired portion of the first document. For example the end user may run the initial document through the one or more classifiers with the selected desired semantic content to retrieve a second document. In this example the user may review the second document to determine that it does have the same semantic content as was selected in the initial document. The user can then indicate by input that the document retrieved is correct for example.

Additionally the input provided by the end user can comprise end user indication that a second document retrieved from the database does not comprise a same semantic content as the selected desired portion of the first document. For example the end user may run the initial document through the one or more classifiers with the selected desired semantic content to retrieve a second document. In this example the user may review the second document to determine that it does not have the same semantic content e.g. or the content selected by the classifier s was incorrect as was selected in the initial document. The user can then indicate by input that the document retrieved is incorrect for example.

One or more classifier components are operably coupled with the processor component and memory component . The one or more classifier components are used to identify a second document from the database where the second document comprises a target portion that has a same semantic content as the selected desired portion of the first document. For example the end user can seed the database by running an initial document through the classifier component S so that the classifier components can be trained to retrieve merely those target documents from the database that comprise the desired semantic content.

A classification updating component is operably coupled with the end user input receiving component and is used to update the one or more classifier components with the end user input in order to identify desired semantic content. For example the user input such as described above is used to train the classifier component s so that they may perform more accurately in identifying target documents in the database that may comprise the desired semantic content.

A document presentation component presents a document from the database to the end user for identification of desired semantic content. For example a potential target document can be retrieved from the database using the trained classifiers and the document presentation component can present it to the end user to determine whether it meet the desired semantic content selection criteria. In one embodiment the document presentation component may utilize a computer based display such as a monitor and the end user can merely review the content on the display.

A database indexing component can be used to label a document in the database that comprises desired semantic content. For example when the classifier component s retrieve a target document and it is determined that is comprises the desired semantic content the database indexing component can attached metadata to the document to indicate that is has the desired semantic content. Further in one embodiment the database indexing component may attach metadata to the portion of the target document that comprises the desired semantic content. For example the identification of the content may facilitate in information gathering by the end user.

In one embodiment the database can comprise one or more sample documents e.g. seed documents that comprise the desired semantic content e.g. that the end user is searching for . In this embodiment the one or more sample documents can be used to train the one or more classifiers to identify potential target documents having a same semantic content as the desired semantic content. In another embodiment the desired portion of a document may be text where document components are made up of words e.g. a text based document of words . As an example words may comprise numbers symbols or other text based elements put together in a string.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

