---

title: Systems and methods for determining information and knowledge relevancy, relevant knowledge discovery and interactions, and knowledge creation
abstract: Systems and methods for determining user specific information and knowledge relevancy, relevant knowledge and information discovery, user intent and relevant interactions via intelligent messaging, collaboration, sharing and information categorization, further delivering created knowledge accessible through a personalized user experience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430570&OS=09430570&RS=09430570
owner: 
number: 09430570
owner_city: Double Bay
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20100630
---
This application is the National Phase application of International Application No. PCT AU2010 000836 filed Jun. 30 2010 which designates the United States and was published in English which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 222 118 filed Jul. 1 2009. These applications in their entirety are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure concerns the field of information and knowledge management and more particularly systems and methods for enhancing a user s ability to search discover browse share and collaborate with information and knowledge through a personalised relevancy interface used to facilitate such actions.

The explosion of available information on the web coupled with the ever increasing mechanisms to interact is driving the need for a more effective efficient relevant and natural interface to support access to information applications and people as well as facilitate people to people and people to information interactions. Users of the web today are suffering from constant partial attention where their attentiveness is constantly divided amongst an overabundance of information sources. The net result of this information overload is loss of opportunity loss of focus and a poverty of attention in general.

With the explosion of new knowledge and information on the web the half life of these entities decreases. This presents challenges in how to deliver online services and value propositions to the end user at an ever increasing quality speed and relevance. The ability to smartly focus a user s attention conversation interaction and collaboration habits ultimately work towards securing a better return on attention for the user.

Today s systems lack an ability to condition and rank immense corpuses of online information based on a relevancy weighting that is unique to each individual user and therefore a user typically enjoys a lower personalised return on attention impacting on a user s efficiency and effectiveness in completing any online tasks.

Furthermore with the explosion of new knowledge and information on the web in the cloud within corporate environments and accessible to the user from within their own computing devices there is an increased opportunity for intelligent systems to create new knowledge.

Conventional mechanisms for focusing a user s attention providing relevance and supporting intelligent collaboration interaction and knowledge discovery search are suffering from a variety of deficiencies.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure overcome such deficiencies and provide systems methods mechanisms and or techniques that apply semantic technology artificial intelligence social network cloud computing mobile computing enterprise solutions or combinations thereof to rank the relevancy of information and or knowledge whereby knowledge is defined as the concise and appropriate collection of one or a plurality of information combined in a way that makes it useful under certain context available to a user according to user specific and context specific relevancy factors. A personalised relevancy interface may be established to graphically represent and order such information and or knowledge based on relevancy rank. Actions and or interactions associated with such information and or knowledge may be presented thereby allowing the user to perform such functions to information and or knowledge including but not limited to discover search share collaborate with rate modify create new or combinations thereof.

Certain embodiments may include the definition and or utilisation of contextual states that can be either predefined or user defined. Such states represent a state within the system that may be determined from a user s interaction with the environment the system or combinations thereof whereby the system becomes contextually aware. A user can associate particular user specific aspects including but not limited to one or more particular devices one or more communication channels e.g. a particular email address one or more information sources one or more social networks one or more enterprise repositories or combinations thereof to a contextual state. Additionally the system and or the user can further associate user location user activity user interaction time social context presence or combinations thereof to a contextual state. Such user defined and system associations can be used by the system to determine the user s context based on interactions by with or within such association s . Therefore the system can determine the context of the user based on the environment of the user and or the user s actions within the system. Furthermore the system can map relevant objects e.g. an email from a particular email address relating to such associations to a particular user s contextual state.

Certain embodiments may include how a user s priorities interests preferences social context or combinations thereof are determined and subsequently utilised by the system to develop a user s personalised attention profile PAP . User priorities interests preferences social context or combinations thereof can be determined through various techniques including but not limited to behavioural modelling of interactions analysis of information consumed social context analysis or combinations thereof. Given a user s priorities interests priorities preferences social context or combinations thereof continually or substantially continually change with changes of context a user exhibits a PAP for each contextual state within the system. Additionally a user s priorities interests preferences social context or combinations thereof periodically change within the same context resulting in a user s PAP changing within the same contextual state within the system. A user s PAP for a particular contextual state and its semantic metadata representation can be shared through a system API.

Certain embodiments may include how user psychometric data is utilised within the system. The system can obtain a user s psychometric variables and subsequently develop a user s personalised psychometric profile PPP . PPP may have several components related to personal knowledge personal cognitive abilities personal attitudes personal personality or combinations thereof. Use of other components is contemplated for example personal behaviour personal culture social capabilities or combinations thereof. PPP can be used to enable information and or abilities transactions within the system such that knowledge know how experience expertise affinities or combinations thereof are transacted between users and or agents. A user s PPP and its semantic metadata representation can be shared through a system API. Furthermore the user s access device may interact with the user s PPP such that the device may control interactions between the device and other users agents information knowledge or combinations thereof without the direct involvement of the user of the device.

In a further aspect a user s PAP and or PPP allows objects to be relevancy ranked on a per user basis for a given context of the user thereby determining the relevance of a particular object to a user for a given contextual state representing an object s personalised relevancy ranking PAR . Objects of information and or knowledge are analysed using techniques including but not limited to natural language processing to extract concepts relating to predetermined concepts within knowledge domain describing vocabularies ontologies . It is concept or plurality of concepts describing an object that are reasoned with and in conjunction with the user s PAP and or PPP to determine the object s PAR. Such reasoning can occur on a continuous or substantially continuous periodic or event driven basis. The variance of PAP with changes of context and the variance of PPP with changes to a user s psychometrics result in changes of an object s PAR with variance in PAP PPP or combinations thereof. An object s PAR and its semantic metadata representation can be shared through a system API.

In certain embodiments the PAR for an object may be unique to the individual user and may be affected by the user s PAP context and or PPP psychometrics .

Certain embodiments detail the device utilised by the user when using certain disclosed systems. The device can be a stand alone handheld device a wearable device or one that is implanted. Furthermore the device contains a psychometric system that interacts or partially interacts with the user s knowledge abilities attitudes personality or combinations thereof to provide input to the method s used to determine PPP. One such exemplary device is one that is wearable on the user with non invasive or partially invasive body sensors for one or a combination thereof of the input and or output modalities. Body sensors can use various mechanisms relating to electro mechanical motion or combinations thereof to interface the body to the sensor and vice versa.

Certain embodiments may include the organisation of relevant or selected objects information and or knowledge into containers. These containers may contain various types of objects the system supports e.g. email RSS wave document information etc. within the contextual states of the system. One or more containers may exist within each contextual state. Containers may be categorised by concepts mapped to them. Therefore objects from within a particular contextual state that contain particular concepts may be mapped into a container based on a user s PAP for this state. In certain embodiments a container may contain a mesh of all objects relating to a particular set of concepts bound by a particular contextual state. In a further aspect containers based on particular concepts can be created by a user or can be recommended by the system to a user. This recommendation is made in considering the priorities interests preferences social context or combinations thereof of a user as outlined within their PAP for this contextual state. Additionally containers may contain various policies that define ownership of the container privacy constraints sharing and collaboration rules or combinations thereof. Interaction s with objects within the container can be governed by these policies. In addition container economies may be created by container owners and or participants such that objects can be traded within and or across containers. Users of containers may set goals for the container to achieve with the system then working towards meeting such goals. For example a container may be created representative of particular concepts mapped into it and the container can be assigned a goal to search for people information knowledge data or combinations thereof around such concepts until a certain metric is reached. This example relates to an agent based search around concepts that can trigger goal achievement.

In certain aspects objects within these containers may be sorted based on various mechanisms for example around the type of object relevancy of information within the objects objects from a certain person s time of object creation location of object creation or where the object currently resides or combination of these mechanisms. Additionally sorting may be influenced by the current contextual state of operation. Therefore containers with the same concepts could be sorted differently based on contextual information at the time of consuming contents within a container. In addition contextual states can influence sorting of objects for example but not limited to aspects including the location of the user current time the device being used to access the container and or the social context connections of the user.

In certain embodiments a system may continually substantially continuously periodically or based on recognised concept map events or combinations thereof assess the concept mapping between various containers to subsequently alert users and or agents of possible opportunities for value creation based on concept matches or similarities. This inter container concept assessment allows the system to recommend to the user affinities between users occurring within the system people occurring external to the system user s and or people with similar interests user s and or people that are experts on particular concepts innovation opportunities collaboration recommendations or combinations thereof.

In certain aspects the containers within the system may retain all objects substantially all objects or a subset of objects and the interactions related to these objects over time. This provides a form of knowledge retention capability for the user so that a user can navigate between various containers without losing their knowledge or position within a particular container.

In certain embodiments the system may interface to social media repositories. The system can map such un structured semi structured or structured or combinations thereof social media into the system. The system can determine PAR for such social media. As part of this process the system may perform analysis of the social media to annotate the content of the media thereby allowing semantic metadata to be derived to further describe the social media object.

In certain embodiments the system may interface to social networks and extract objects from within such networks. The system can map such un structured semi structured or structured objects or combinations thereof into the system. The system can determine PAR for such objects. As part of this process the system may perform analysis of the object based on predetermined parameters thereby allowing semantic metadata to be derived to further describe the object.

Certain embodiments may utilise the broadcast benefits of an asymmetrical social network whereby relationships between users are not symmetrical. A user can share a new piece of information or interact with a particular user and or agent that may have experience expertise and or affinity around a particular concept whereby the system delivers this new piece of information or interaction to another user and or agent without a close order degree of separation i.e. first or second degree relationship or following within the system interfaced social network s . This allows the user to access the breadth of the system s known social graph s without having the necessary connections followings or tenure currently established.

Certain embodiments may use social collaboration. Social collaboration may create a collaborative environment for creating sharing and or distilling information. It may place an awareness on common knowledge and the relevant spread between users of knowledge under context within the system. Social collaboration focuses for example on the integration of semantic wikis blogs collaborative bookmarking and or social search. Other forms of information may also be integrated for example social networks forums micro blogs or enterprise collaboration services. Social collaboration may be a loosely coupled collaboration whereby it is loosely tied to concepts ontologies within the semantic engine facilitating ad hoc unrestricted yet relevant knowledge sharing.

Accordingly information and or knowledge is continuously or substantially continuously shared negotiated and or conversed via conversations amongst connected and like users. Social collaboration facilitates information and or knowledge exploitation determining context of existing knowledge and or information and knowledge and or information exploration new information and or knowledge discovery . Information and or knowledge discovery can be performed by users and or agents that search for information and or knowledge representative of particular domain concepts within available data sources. In a further aspect of social collaboration a user can create a collaborative workspace . Collaborative workspaces allow users to create areas around particular topics of interest that can then be socially interacted within. These workspaces may exist in a container within the system or as a link to an external workspace e.g. a wiki .

Certain embodiments may link a person s PAP and or PPP to a virtual sphere of knowledge information and or objects such as a place that has been visited or passed through by users agents and or objects. This virtual sphere can be formed within a container that can be spatially bound and or linked to contextual state s . An example of such a spatially bound container could be a library or a class room or a company s research and development office such that information objects interactions collaborations search discovery or creation or combinations thereof are personally ranked for each user with the spatial bounding taken into consideration. Furthermore this spatial bounding can take the form of a virtual spatial bounding such that information objects interactions collaborations search discovery or creation or combinations thereof appear within the container spatially relative to each other but not fixed to an absolute geographic spatial reference. When containers are bound by location whether it is virtual or physical the user experience may be one of augmented reality. Access to such containers may be controlled by the policies of the container allowing spatial transaction control to be delivered by the MarketPlace.

In certain embodiments a user may seamlessly or substantially seamlessly link their profiles to one or many social networks. Profile information may be transparent or semi transparent between the system and the social networks linked to. Through various social network and or data portability initiatives a user s profile data and or social graph position may be available to the system. Social connect as an embodiment works such that people and information can be interconnected components of the system. As such person to person communications and or person centric operations are important aspects in determining a user s PAP and an object s PAR. Social connect may be coupled to social collaboration embodiments so to enable a people centred knowledge management approach focusing on social processes. The social connect concept may also be formed around distributed methodologies such that the management of the social relationships may be exposed to external sites and or services whereby the connections between people can be provisioned with context and or a user s PAP. This may expose the dynamic context and or relevance of the interconnection to a third party application and or site.

In certain embodiments ontology based annotation semantic text analysis natural language processing reasoning techniques or combination thereof are used to generate semantic metadata for knowledge information and or objects. This semantic metadata may directly link to concepts within containers. This metadata can allow information silos to communicate with each other via compatible knowledge models ontologies . It can allow intelligent agent s to transverse such silos in search of knowledge and or information that is relevant to a user s PAP. Through semantic annotation artefacts social objects people etc. can be referenced by concepts defined within ontological models within the system thereby allowing inferencing to be performed whereby automated or semi automated reasoning can infer new implicit information on what has already been asserted in an explicit manner. Semantic text analysis can be employed to perform linguistic and or statistical processing functions on the textual content of knowledge artefacts within the system in order to perform named entity recognition and or term classification. Such text analysis can also determine content summarisation topic recognition noun phrase extraction or combinations thereof. In addition predetermined dimensional analysis of the text can determine the tone of the text the demographic or target audience of the text the interest of the target audience within the text the language of the text or combinations thereof. This analysis provides resources that be subsequently used to determine object relevancy.

In a further aspect a system or method can be used to determine semantic metadata and concepts representative of a user s content within their storage devices including but not limited to mediums of hard drives CD DVD s memory sticks etc. and across some or all of a user s devices. The system can concept map knowledge information and or objects from within these mediums into contextual state and subsequently containers. Additionally corporate enterprise information repositories can be concept mapped using the system to assist with knowledge retention. Such concept mapping can map concepts to users through information ownership or referencing within and can subsequently be used by the system to look for concept expertise and or affinities. Mapping objects with known concepts into corporate enterprise containers can allow smart interaction by users of a container such that users from within both a corporate internal environment as well as its customers suppliers marketing intermediaries or any other related party can interact within the container providing seamless or substantially seamless data integration as well as contextual business processes leveraged directly or indirectly in the collaborative interactions of the participants.

In certain embodiments a personalised relevancy interface is established which adaptively displays information and or knowledge objects. A user creates contextual states representative of certain environmental and user associations representative of the desired state. Within each contextual state the user defines one or a plurality of containers representative of concepts of interest under the particular contextual state. A user browses through a plurality of objects with a container with objects ordered by PAR. A user can execute action s associated with each object further relating but not limited to search discovery collaboration sharing interaction rating marking for favourite or combinations thereof.

In certain embodiments techniques are presented to overcome the current problem with the approach to online search which lacks personalised relevancy ordering of the results. A contextual search system utilises a user s PAP to rank all aspects or substantially all aspects of information knowledge or interactions or combinations thereof within the system such that each object has a unique PAR specific to the user. An object with a higher PAR indicates that at such point in time and given the user s current contextual state this object is of higher relevancy to the user. Typically this would indicate this object should be presented within the user s personalised relevancy interface at a higher order of focus or priority. The contextual search system can also allow a user to perform traditional text based search whereby the user s search query can be adapted to better match a user s current contextual state as represented by PAP.

In certain embodiments a system interfaces to and utilises enterprise information and or personal information management tools. This allows for example tasks contacts calendar information and or messaging email Waves etc. or combinations thereof to be synchronised or partially synchronised. Such objects can be semantically annotated within the system so that such objects can be accessible through the personalised relevancy interface. Such objects can be ordered within this interface according to their determined relevancy. This embodiment allows users to have their enterprise information and or personal information organised in containers within contextual states of the system.

In certain embodiments a system further comprises of a conversation manager. Conversations can be formed from any combination of communication mediums within the system or interfaced to by the system. Objects within a conversation include the users information media knowledge and or services or combinations thereof within the conversation. Conversations that are related by such aspects including but not limited to concept within a conversation participants communication groups etc. can be formed together as threads within containers either by the system and or the user using functions within the conversation manager. Conversations can be of a decentralised nature whereby they can occur across multiple channels and or communities both within and or external to the system. PAR of each conversation object can be determined and used to deliver relevancy for such objects within the personalised relevancy interface. The bearer of conversations can be any communication medium supported by the user s device being used to access the system. Conversations within the system can be viewed as a threaded stream such that relationships between conversation threads can be easily navigated within the personalised relevancy interface. Conversations within the system can take many different forms. For example a conversation could be as simple as micro blogging. Another form of conversation could be a conversation about a particular topic contained within a container of a contextual state whereby users from various disciplines within a company participate via the same and or different conversation bearers. Another example could be the conversational interaction between the user and a particularly service within the personalised relevancy interface. Conversations can also be used as a mechanism the system uses to notify users of newly available and or relevant objects.

In certain embodiments a system can utilise semantically enabled Intelligent Agents SIA . An SIA is defined as an entity which observes and acts upon an environment and directs its activity towards achieving goals i.e. it is rational whereby its actions functions and goals are described through one or more ontologies. The system uses one or many SIAs to learn and acquire knowledge and or information to assist a user to meet their interests priorities and goals. The SIAs can harvest knowledge and interact with external data silos such that when certain conditions and or goals are met within a data silo a predetermined action is triggered within the system. This action can be of many forms including but not limited to interaction with conversations or harvesting of new additional knowledge. An SIA may harvest and or interact around particular concepts within containers. This allows SIAs to act as goal agents within containers to work towards achieving goals set by the user to assist with knowledge discovery and or retention knowledge acquisition and focused attention.

In certain embodiments a system utilises the function of breadcrumbing whereby information in the forth of addition annotated data representing the interactions a user has with objects can be placed within the semantic data of the system. This additional annotated data represents historically interactions relating to the object by one or more users. This provides a means for statistical inferencing to predict future interactions and relevancy conditions for a user or an object. One such example is spatial breadcrumbing to monitor geospatial trends whereby semantic data can be geospatially referenced with additional annotated data and thereby used for inferring certain relevancy aspects in the future. Another example relates to trends in PAP and or PAR around certain knowledge pools and users.

In certain embodiments a system utilises detailed domain knowledge of all or substantially all devices accessing the system. The characteristics and or capabilities of such devices can provide some of the system inputs to control the contextual behaviour within the system. User usage patterns can be captured within the system and subsequently influence contextual behaviour accordingly.

In certain embodiments semantic based policy and or privacy management is described where concept based policy and or privacy management can be defined around particular objects within the system. This allows policy frameworks to be deployed so that social collaboration interaction and or knowledge information discovery can be governed by such policies.

In certain embodiments a system further supports an interaction based transaction economy within a marketplace with the marketplace adaptively adjusting service and or product offered to a user in a container within a contextual state in a relevant manner based on a user s PPP and the service and or product s PAR. Within this system resides an ontology based economy that is based on certain parameters including but not limited to attention models and transaction models. Concepts describing products and or services can be defined within such ontologies within the system and subsequently interconnected into the overall domain concepts. Such concept instances occurring within product and or service objects are subsequently given a PAR for each user and are therefore ranked for relevancy like other objects within the system.

In certain embodiments a system can utilise a user s PPP to provide feedback on personal development. The system can correlate goals thinking style innovation style communication style or collaboration styles or combinations thereof coupled with the user s PPP to learn aspects of a user s behaviour within different containers under different contextual states. It can gain inputs from the a large corpus of online information work performed within the system by the user and the user s interaction within the system including but not limited to user physical attributes such as voice typing styles eye movement concept preferences within containers social relationships goals set within containers and the associated interaction conversation and or collaboration or combinations thereof to provide feedback on personal development to the user. Such inputs can be semantically annotated allowing the system to predict future patterns of behaviour thereby determining personal development feedback. This feedback may or may not have otherwise been discovered by the user. Additionally products and or services can be recommended to the user within the personalised relevancy interface to further promote personal development.

In certain embodiments a system utilises entire or substantially the entire corpus of knowledge known to the system in conjunction with the system users PPPs to create simulated creative thinking models around users psychometric profiles and system based profiles whereby the system can semi automatically or automatically create new knowledge.

In certain embodiments a system s is disclosed for providing information to at least one of a plurality of users the system ordering the information based on the attention ranking of the information relevancy an interface for interfacing with at least one online data and or stored user data a processor executing an application to analyse information derived or inferred at least in part from the online data and stored user data a relevance engine having inputs from the application and at least one of the following outputs an output to deliver attention profiles an output to deliver psychometric profiles a database storing at least in part data relating to inputs and outputs of the relevance engine and application wherein the relevance engine further comprises an output to deliver attention rankings and wherein the relevance engine ranks the information based at least in part on one or more of the outputs.

In certain aspects the interface further comprises one or a plurality of interfaces to data using extensible standardised formats proprietary formats or combinations thereof a harvesting or mining function for collecting data in its native format a software agent component including a plurality of intelligent agents each able to traverse data sources a portability function to manage data portability between the system and interfaced entities and a publishing function to manage information publishing into interfaced entities wherein interfaced entities include online information online communities online systems user stored data or combinations thereof. In certain aspects the standardised formats further comprise REST SOAP RSS Atom XMPP SPARQL or equivalent. In certain aspects the harvesting or mining includes means of filtering and or conditioning data. In certain aspects the intelligent agent further comprises configurable parameters optimised for each user s information requirements. In certain aspects the portability component includes means of information or knowledge adaptation wherein this adaption forms the information or knowledge ready for publishing into interface entities. In certain aspects the portability component includes mechanisms to protect the privacy of user information or knowledge.

In certain aspects a location system variable represents the location of a user or the location of an object represented within the system. In certain aspects a location subsystem further comprises a location broker system that can take input from satellite positioning devices mobile network location systems local or short range network location systems IP based network location systems and user input location. In certain aspects the satellite positioning devices are devices which contain global positioning system GPS and or GALILEO satellite positioning technology and which can send the location data from this technology to the system. In certain aspects the mobile network location systems further comprises assisted GPS cell site triangulation technology or equivalent and which can send the location data from this technology to the system. In certain aspects the local short range network location systems further comprises Bluetooth WiFi and Zigbee technology or equivalent and which can send the location data from this technology to the system. In certain aspects the IP based network location systems further comprises IP address MAC address spatial referencing technology or equivalent which map such an address to an absolute location and which can send the location data from this technology to the system. In certain aspects the user input systems allow the user to input the known location and which can send the location data from this technology to the system. In certain aspects the various location and positioning systems can send the location data from either the device being located or the system locating the device. In certain aspects the heading of a device which contains technology to determine its heading can be sent to the system. In certain aspects each location system component is interconnected into the location broker system that determines the most accurate location representation to set as the location system variable. In certain aspects the location system variable for a user is stored in semantic annotation representation within the database storage component. In certain aspects the location system variable for an object is stored in semantic annotation representation within the database storage component.

In certain aspects a presence system variable represents the presence of a user within the system. In certain aspects the presence system variable can be extracted from one or more of a user s online communities. In certain aspects the presence system variable can be extracted from one or more of a user s online systems. In certain aspects a current time system variable represents a time reference within the system. In certain aspects the object time system variable represents a time reference within the system. In certain aspects the current time system variable is referenced to UTC. In certain aspects the object time system variable is referenced to UTC.

In certain aspects wherein the database further comprises a semantic database including a plurality of records each record descriptive of information derived and a content store for storage of content wherein the semantic database can be a standalone instance or can be federated within one or more instances interconnected together and the content store can be a standalone instance or can be federated within one or more instances interconnected together

In certain aspects a semantic knowledge information management component within the system further comprises an information retrieval component which interfaces to at least one or more structured un structured or semi structured instances of data an ontology mapping component which maps concepts discovered within un structured or semi structured data into predefined classes attributes relations function terms restrictions rules axioms and or events of system ontologies an ontology repository containing representations of ontologies known to the system wherein ontologies provide a unified machine interpretable domain vocabulary of knowledge domains a natural language processing component which linguistically analyses text within data retrieved via the information retrieval component an information and knowledge control component which maps data instances of ontologies to form system knowledge a content recognition component a spatial intention recognition component and a temporal recognition and analysis component. In certain aspects the information retrieval component conditions the data where necessary and presents it for concept mapping.

In certain aspects the concept or concepts discovered and or extracted from data are stored within one or more indexes within the system with their associated link s e.g. URL URI etc. to the data. In certain aspects the index or indexes are searchable. In certain aspects the indexes represent a concept to data object map whereby a single concept can link to one or more data objects. In certain aspects the relevance engine utilises the index or indexes to determine data object s that are representative of one or more concepts. In certain aspects the relevance engine compares indexed concepts with a concept or concepts from a user s PAP to determine PAR for the data object or objects linked to the concept or concepts. In certain aspects the indexes can be created from an entity or entities discovered and or extracted from data including but not limited to term classification content summarisation topic recognition noun phrase extraction tone of the text the demographic or target audience of the text the interests of the target audience within the text and the language of the text or combinations thereof. In certain aspects entity extraction can be performed using semantic extraction. In certain aspects the relevance engine utilises the indexes to determine data objects that are representative of one or more entities. In certain aspects the relevance engine compares indexed entities with an entity or entities from a user s PAP to determine PAR for the data object or objects linked to the entity or entities.

In certain aspects the information retrieval component is adaptable to recognise new data sources of information. In certain aspects the information retrieval component is adaptable to condition new data sources of information. In certain aspects the information retrieval component further comprises of an intelligent agent or plurality of intelligent agents having the ability to traverse information data silos in search of information considered relevant to the system or user based on goals set of the intelligent agent by the system or user. In certain aspects the information retrieval component further comprises link processing to retrieve information addressable by a URI link. In certain aspects the link processing further comprises the ability to process links nested within content representative of the parent link to a system configurable link depth.

In certain aspects the ontology mapping component further comprises of predetermined concept mapping to map information retrieved with classes attributes relations function terms restrictions rules axioms and or events of system ontologies. In certain aspects the predetermined concept mapping of the system is extensible to support inclusion of new system ontologies and or new information types. In certain aspects the ontology repository component can store the entire ontology representation within or reference an external representation of the ontology. In certain aspects the new ontology representations can be added to the ontology repository component. In certain aspects the ontology repository relationships can be created between classes attributes relations function terms restrictions rules axioms and or events of a plurality of system ontologies. In certain aspects the relationships can be represented using the Web Ontology Language OWL. In certain aspects the relationships can be represented using the Probability Web Ontology Language PR OWL to place weights on the relative importance of relationships. In certain aspects the weights can be different for each user. In certain aspects representations of contextual ontologies are stored within the ontology repository. In certain aspects data instances of the contextual ontologies are stored in the semantic database.

In certain aspects a contextual ontology further comprising of social relationships and personal information and is represented by the FOAF ontology. In certain aspects a contextual ontology further comprising of socially interconnected community information and is represented by the SIOC ontology. In certain aspects the SOIC ontology interconnects conversations within communities existing both internal and external to the system. In certain aspects a contextual ontology further comprising of user attention profile information and is represented by the UAP ontology. In certain aspects a contextual ontology further comprising of device information and is represented by the DEV ontology. In certain aspects a contextual ontology further comprising of knowledge mapping information and is represented by the SKOS ontology. In certain aspects a contextual ontology further comprising of temporal information. In certain aspects a contextual ontology further comprising of spatial information and is represented by the Geonames ontology.

In certain aspects a contextual ontology further comprising of service information. The contextual ontology utilises the Web Ontology Services Language OWL S to represent supported services within the system. The supported services represented are described by three parts further comprising a service profile describing what the service does whereby the service profile is human readable and includes the service name and description limitations on applicability and quality of service and or service publisher information a process model describing how a user can interact with the service including descriptions of sets of inputs outputs pre conditions and or results of service execution and a service grounding describing the details needed by a user to interact with the service.

In certain aspects the natural language processing component further comprises functions for named entity recognition term classification content summarisation topic recognition and noun phrase extraction whereby to further analyse the text. In certain aspects the natural language processing component further comprises of analysis to recognise a category representative of the text by a predetermined dimension. In certain aspects the predetermined dimension further comprises the tone of the text the demographic or target audience of the text the interests of the target audience within the text and the language of the text. In certain aspects the natural language processing component creates semantic metadata representative of concepts entities categorises and terms found within the text.

In certain aspects the information and knowledge control component stores retrieves queries modifies and or deletes information and knowledge within the database storage component. In certain aspects the information and knowledge control component further comprises a knowledge bank which includes a virtual layer for indexing and mapping knowledge within the system. In certain aspects the information and knowledge control component further comprises a knowledge transaction management subsystem which controls knowledge transactions and interactions within the system.

In certain aspects the knowledge transaction management subsystem utilises a transaction model to control the transactions and interactions. In certain aspects the transaction model can be an instance or a plurality of instances for each instance of the knowledge and information.

In certain aspects the content recognition component comprises a content processing component for each type of supported content and wherein the processing component extracts metadata describing the content. In certain aspects the content comprises of structured un structured or semi structured content representative of the degree of metadata already available for the content.

In certain aspects the spatial intention recognition component comprises a forward prediction subsystem to predict the spatial trajectory of a device connected to the system. In certain aspects the forward prediction subsystem further comprises short term extrapolation of the device location by analysing previous spatial trajectories within the system to statistically determine the most probably short term trajectory. In certain aspects the forward prediction subsystem further comprises long term historical extrapolation of the device location by analysing a user s or a plurality of users spatial trajectory histories within the system to statistically determine the most probably long term trajectory.

In certain aspects the temporal recognition and analysis component comprises a system to temporally timestamp data within the system.

In certain aspects the relevance engine further comprising of relevancy management components that provide interaction contextual collaboration conversation privacy and knowledge management functions a behavioural modelling component that generates a user s personalised attention profile and personalised psychometric profile a relevance framework that generates personalised attention rankings indicating object information relevance and a personalised attention profile component.

In certain aspects the relevance management components include a context management subsystem providing contextual awareness to the system by means of contextual states whereby personalised attention profiles are bound by such context a collaborative management subsystem providing means to control collaboration between a plurality of users bound by context a interaction management subsystem providing means to manage interactions between a plurality of users bound by context including policy and preferred interaction medium management a knowledge management subsystem providing means of seeking and capturing information from a user or plurality of users a privacy management subsystem providing means of controlling access restrictions to information a social management subsystem providing means for determining trust parameters and social relationship contexts and utilising such aspects in the determination of personalised attention profile a reasoning inferencing subsystem provides means to reason with and or infer information and an implicit explicit feedback subsystem providing means for feedback capture between the system and a user or plurality of users.

In certain aspects the relevance framework include a contextual search subsystem providing means to contextualise search results semantically linked Bayesian networks providing means to inference information across domain vocabularies through probabilistic influences traversing across semantically interconnected domains and a relevancy fusion component providing means to formulate ordered lists for a plurality of users of information objects based on each object s personalised attention ranking.

In certain aspects the psychometric profile of a user is determined from assessment of a user s knowledge cognitive abilities attitudes personality or combinations thereof. In certain aspects the attention profile of a user is determined from assessment of a user s priorities interests preferences social context or combinations thereof. In certain aspects the behavioural modelling analyses user interactions with information objects including interpretation of implicit and explicit means of feedback. In certain aspects the behavioural modelling analyses a plurality of user s personalised attention profile as a means to determine similar minded users.

In certain aspects the personalised attention ranking given to an information entity is derived from personalised attention profile personalised psychometric profile or combinations thereof of a user and whereby the personalised attention ranking adapts with changes to such profiles of the user.

In certain aspects the contextual states further comprise a container or plurality of containers comprising a means of clustering information containing a similar concept or concepts. In certain aspects the container provides a means of containing information objects of similar concepts extracted from such objects and associated objects and ordered based on the personalised attention ranking of such objects. In certain aspects the container further comprises a concept or plurality of concepts providing means to associate information objects with containers a goal or plurality of goals providing means to control search for people information knowledge data or combinations thereof certain metric is reached a policy or plurality of policies providing means to control collaboration interaction access functions or combinations thereof and a privacy function providing means to restrict access to aspects of the container. In certain aspects a container or plurality of containers associated with a user can be interconnected to a container or a plurality of containers of another user bound by policy authority privacy parameters or combinations thereof set by the users.

In certain aspects interconnections between containers provide a means for flow of information between containers. In certain aspects the interconnections between containers provide means for determining affinity experience expertise or combinations thereof between users.

In certain aspects a personalised relevancy interface to graphically represent and adaptively order information based on personalised attention ranking. In certain aspects the personalised relevancy interface provides a means of presenting actions or interactions associated with information objects being presented thereby allowing the user to perform such actions or interactions to information including but not limited to discover search share collaborate with rate modify create new or combinations thereof.

In certain aspects a marketplace providing means for an interaction based transaction economy using ontology based concept to product or concept to service matching whereby a personalised attention ranking is determined for a product or service object or plurality of products or services objects. In certain aspects the objects can be associated with containers through concept mapping thereby objects can be presented within the personalised relevancy interface.

In certain aspects a user of the system can interface to one or more instances of online information. In certain aspects the online information further comprises at least part of one or more social network social media online forums wilds blogs feeds micro blogs enterprise systems personal information management systems or linked data. In certain aspects metadata and or contextual information accessible within the online information is retrieved via the semantic knowledge information management component.

In certain aspects a user of the system can interface to one or more instances of online systems. In certain aspects the online systems further comprises at least part of one or more Google Waves blogs email calendar tasks contacts journals collaborative systems document sharing systems or conversation systems. In certain aspects metadata and or contextual information accessible within the online systems is retrieved via the semantic knowledge information management component. In certain aspects the online system resides behind a firewall. In certain aspects the online systems can be mapped to one or many user configured contextual states within the system.

In certain aspects a user of the system can interface to one or more instances of user stored data. In certain aspects the user stored data further comprises at least part of one or more documents spreadsheets multimedia presentations or application data. In certain aspects the user stored data resides on a device further comprising memory a processor or plurality of processors an operating system and a network interface or plurality of network interfaces wherein the user stored data can be extracted via the network interface for processing within the system. In certain aspects metadata and or contextual information accessible within the user stored data is retrieved via the semantic knowledge information management component. In certain aspects the data can be temporally indexed. In certain aspects the data can be spatially indexed. In certain aspects the data can be at least part of one or more structured un structured or semi structured.

In certain aspects a system API wherein a least part of one or more user s personalised attention profile user s personalised psychometric profile object s personalised attention ranking or a user s knowledge profile are accessible. In certain aspects the system API further comprises of functions to extract and or inject data out and or into the system. In certain aspects the system API is specific and language independent. In certain aspects access to the system API is controlled by the system administrator.

In certain aspects one many parts of or all modules components within the system can reside within a cloud computing architecture either within the same data centre or distributed across one or more data centres.

In certain aspects the service can be deployed in a multiplicity of configurations comprising at least one or more remote server distributed across real and virtual servers cloud computing or hosting services.

In certain embodiments a method s is disclosed for ranking information the method comprising interfacing with at least one online data and stored user data analysis of information derived or inferred at least in part from the online data and stored user data storing at least in part information relating to at least online data stored user data and analysis output and calculation of an attention ranking of the information. In certain aspects the analysis of information comprises steps of retrieving at least part of one or more structured un structured or semi structured information from online data or stored user data natural language processing of information to extract at least one concept and mapping of at least one concept into at least part of one or more ontologies. In certain aspects the retrieved data is conditioned. In certain aspects the method further comprises computation of a user s psychometric profile determined at least in part by analysis of one or more of a user s knowledge cognitive abilities attitudes or personality. In certain aspects the method further comprises computation of a user s attention profile determined at least in part by analysis of one or more of a user s priorities interests preferences or social context.

In certain aspects the calculation of an attention ranking is performed at least in part by reasoning of a least part of one attention profile or psychometric profile with information to calculate the attention ranking. In certain aspects the method further comprises ordering information within a relevancy interface wherein the ordering of the information is based on the attention ranking of each piece of information.

In certain embodiments a system s is disclosed comprising a processor a memory a operating system a communications connection one or a plurality of input modalities for device system to user one or a plurality of output modalities an interconnection mechanism coupling at least in part one or more processor memory communications connection input modalities output modalities. In certain aspects the memory is encoded with an application for capturing at least in part one or more user action interaction or stored user data.

In certain aspects the system further comprises transmission of application data using the communications connection to a system capable of receiving such application data. In certain aspects the application further comprises at least one or more functions to analyse at least in part one of a user s priorities interests preferences or social context. In certain aspects the application further comprises at least one or more functions to analyse at least in part one of a user s knowledge cognitive ability attitude or personality. In certain aspects the application further comprises at least one or more functions to receive information or attention rankings.

In certain aspects the device system further comprising generating a relevancy interface. In certain aspects the relevancy interface orders information based on attention ranking. In certain aspects the relevancy interface further provides a means of presenting one or more user actions associated with information thereby allowing the user to select a user action. In certain aspects the user action provides functional means of at least one or more functions to discover new information search for information share information collaborate with information rate information modify information create new information or combinations thereof.

It is to be understood that the embodiments disclosed can be embodied as a software program as software and hardware as hardware and or circuitry alone such as within a data communications device or combinations thereof. Certain features of the disclosed embodiment as explained herein may be employed in data communications devices and or software systems.

It is to also be understood that certain embodiments may be embodied within or partially within a cloud computing system. The concept of cloud computing refers to the utilisation of a set of shared computing resources e.g. servers which are typically consolidated in one or more data centres.

Certain embodiments can operate as machine readable code this code may reside on a Server Personal Computer larger computer smaller computer a mobile device such as a PDA or iPhone or within or partially within a cloud computing architecture.

The present disclosure will be described in conjunction with certain exemplar embodiments however it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the scope of these embodiments. On the contrary the present disclosure is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Furthermore in the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However it will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that certain embodiments may be practised without these specific details.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of procedures logic blocks processing and other symbolic representation of operations on data bits within a computer system or electronic computing device.

These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A procedure logic block process etc. is herein in generally conceived to be a self sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result.

The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these physical manipulations take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system or similar electronic computing device. For reasons of convenience and with reference to common usage these signals are referred to as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like with reference to the present inventions.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these terms are to be interpreted as referencing physical manipulations and quantities and are merely convenient labels and are to be interpreted further in view of terms commonly used in the art. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is understood that throughout discussions of the present disclosure discussions utilising terms such as generating or modifying or retrieving or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data. For example the data is represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories and is transformed into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The methods and or systems disclosed are not limited to a particular computer platform particular processor or particular high level programming language. Additionally the computer system may be a multiprocessor computer system or may include multiple computers connected over a computer network. It should be understood that each module or step shown in the system framework may correspond to separate modules of a computer program or may be separate computer programs. Such modules may be operable on separate computers.

Component represents the online information the system interfaces with. This information includes but is not limited to social networks social media forums wikis blogs feeds micro blogs enterprise systems presence systems personal information management PIM systems location determination systems time references third party linked data services open linked data and or unstructured data. Information from is interfaced to by component the Data Interface Layer. Component harvests this information through data mining and or scouting capabilities. Component also controls portability of data within the system and or publishing of information to online information sources described by .

Component performs the storage layer the knowledge information semantics layer and the relevance engine . Additionally it contains the MarketPlace .

Storage layer contains semantic stores and blob stores used to store semantic data and or pieces blobs of information. Various aspects of can reside within a cloud computing architecture. Storage layer also contains an abstraction layer such that portability between cloud solutions is possible.

Knowledge information semantics layer performs multiple tasks including but not limited to the following. Firstly it manages the system wide ontologies which are stored within an Ontology Repository. Secondly it manages information retrieval which extracts information from the Data Interface Layer and determines the best course of action to extract metadata and store accordingly within the Storage Layer . Thirdly it performs the ontology concept mapping such that unstructured and or semi structured data is correctly mapped within supported ontologies within the system.

The metadata extraction sub system performs several tasks depending on the nature of the information being processed. It can support Natural Language Processing NLP which analyses text within the information to extract key semantic linguistic information and or concepts about this text. It can also perform content recognition which extracts metadata from within content itself. This content recognition analyses the actual content and determines the context of the content for example but not limited to facial recognition spatial recognition and or image recognition.

Information that is captured within the knowledge information semantics layer can be temporally and or spatially tagged.

Relevance engine contains the relevance framework system containing semantically linked Bayesian networks and or systems that control social network analysis system feedback collaborative management context management privacy management knowledge management conversation management and or interaction management. This layer can also include reasoning and or inferencing functions. Furthermore the relevance engine can contain the behavioural modelling sub system for determining a user s PAP. The relevance engine performs relevancy fusion by ordering information within the interface based on a user s PAP and the PAR of each individual piece of information. The relevance engine then provides this information for use within personalised relevancy interface .

Certain system variables including but not limited to time and or location references can be fed into Component via the System Variables Layer .

MarketPlace maps products and services into recognised domain concepts based on the ontologies supported within the knowledge information semantics layer . It manages a transaction economy within the system and has facilities to provided detailed analytics to advertisers and or marketeers.

The Personalised Relevancy Interface component hides the complexity of the underlying system to deliver a personalised relevancy interface to the End User . The personalised relevancy interface adapts based on the device being used and learns from the user s interactions providing feedback to the relevance engine providing continual or substantially continual interface intelligence under any context. Furthermore interactions between the device and the End User can be multimodal in either input and or output modalities.

The Device represents a device supported by the system such that the device ontology for this particular device may be resident within the ontology repository within the knowledge information semantics layer thereby allowing the system to consider the device and its sensors within the relevance engine .

The End User may be a human using the system. The End User interacts with the Personalised Relevancy Interface performing tasks including messaging search discovery collaboration and or interaction via the Interface Actions component . The system can profile the End User by utilising aspects of the system including but not limited to the behavioural modelling sub system and can therefore provide a user experience personalised to the End User . The Interface Actions sub system controls actions within the interface including but not limited to concept tagging collaboration actions messaging search and or discovery.

The System API allows user attention profiles object ranking and or user knowledge profiles can be accessible via the system API at the permission of the user. Additionally components can be implemented on third party websites and services that utilise PAP PPP contextual states and or the containers from within the system. can be made accessible to various entities including but not limited to authenticated users companies developers advertisers and or publishers. It provides a mechanism to extract and or inject various pieces of information from to the system.

Interfacing to the online communities and is performed by the system component . A user can set up their profile within the system to interface to as many online communities as they choose to do so.

System component extracts and or indexes selected or available information and or content from within each of the End User s online communities. Should contextual information and or metadata be available from the online communities this can also be extracted and or indexed within the system. Information extraction is performed by the Information Retrieval sub system . can also harvest this information and or content for storage within component if possible based on the policy of the online community where the information and or content is coming from. User connection information may be extracted from the online communities to determine relationships between users for use within the system. Such relationships can cross community boundaries as illustrated in . User identification techniques can be used to ensure that users are matched between communities via community identification cross referencing. This allows community interconnections to be mapped and used within the contextual states and the relevancy system.

Information content contextual information and or metadata is mapped into the system s stores through the Ontology Mapping sub system utilising system ontologies as stored within the Ontology Repository . Interactions ratings comments hash tags and or recommendations around this information can be captured and used by the relevance engine . Relationships from within the online communities can be analysed and or processed by various sub systems within the relevance engine .

Various pieces of information can be published back into the online communities and or via component as directed by the user under the Collaborative Management sub system and or the Interaction Management sub system .

The Online Systems etc. can be mapped into various contextual states within the system with these states being managed by the Context Management sub system .

Information and or actions from within these systems can be captured and or interfaced to so that these can be used by the Interaction Management sub system .

Interfacing to the Online Systems etc. is performed by the system component . System component indexes selected or available information and or content from within some or all of the End User s online systems. Should contextual information and or metadata be available from the online systems this can be extracted and or indexed within the system. Information extraction is performed by the Information Retrieval sub system . can also harvest this information and or content for storage within component .

Local information sources can be indexed so that information and or content within these local stores is passed to the Semantic Knowledge Information system for semantic metadata extraction with the generated concepts stored into the Database Storage system utilising predetermined system ontologies. This function allows local information of a user that could be residing on their PC laptop mobile telephone MID etc. to be semantically mapped into the system and used within their use of the system such that this information can be reasoned with and or retained for future use within contextual state containers.

Semantic representation of information from within the Online Systems and or are used within the relevance engine to derive the Personalised Relevancy Interface based on a user s current contextual state. The information within the Personalised Relevancy Interface is specific to the information relevant for An End User or a plurality of End Users whereby it is personalised for each End User. Various information objects from within the contextual states can be mapped into containers with the containers providing specific information and or functionality within the contextual state.

Forms of online system information that are either temporally and or spatially bound for example but not limited to calendar entries affect the contextual state relevancy being delivered within the Personalised Relevancy Interface .

The device comprises of one or more central processors device memory a device operating system an IP based network connection and or a psychometrics system . The network connection can be wired optical or radio or mix supporting technologies for example but not limited to such as UMTS W CDMA LTE WiMAX WiFi Zigbee Bluetooth LAN. The network connection supports Internet Protocol that can be used to transport information between the device system and further onto the internet and associated online information .

The device may also include technology built into it to allow the device to be located to varying degrees of accuracy. The device may optionally have a built in global positioning system or other forms of location determination systems including but not limited to cell site triangulation.

The device can have multiple input modalities that in combination provide usage patterns and or feedback via the implicit explicit feedback sub system . Sub system can store feedback data within the ontology repository . This data can be subsequently used by the relevance framework the behavioural modelling and or the reasoning inferencing sub system within the relevance engine . This data can further be used to determine the End User Personalised Personality Profile PPP . One such embodiment of input modalities include touch sensitive input gesture recognition eye tracking voice control tactile keyboard mouse and accelerometer gyro . Input modalities may further align with human sensory .

The device can have multiple output modalities used to provide a means delivering the Personalised Relevancy Interface to the End User . These output modalities could include an LCD monitor voice audio commands haptics and or laser hologram . Output modalities may further align with human sensory .

Each device supported by the system can be represented by device ontology . An instance of this device ontology can be referenced within the ontology repository and subsequently used as a system parameter by the Relevance Framework .

The psychometrics system can interact with the End User psychometrics such that the behavioural modelling sub system can utilise this information. The End User attitudes and or personality is utilised by the behavioural modelling sub system . The End User knowledge and or abilities are represented within the Knowledge Information Semantics system through contextual ontologies represented within the ontology repository . The various sub systems of interact with the End User to further influence the End User psychometrics . The psychometrics system provides data for the calculation of an End User Personalised Psychometric Profile PPP and its subset Personal Knowledge Personal Abilities Personal Attitudes and or Personal Personality metrics.

Another variation of the exemplary device can be implanted within the End User . In this example the exemplary device takes the form of a micro nano machine and could provide modal connectivity of input modalities and output modalities to the End User central nervous system via the peripheral nervous system which in turn takes input output modalities from the sensory division and or the motor division of the End User nervous system .

Satellite positioning can be accomplished using a satellite system such as GPS or GALILEO. Where the device is a mobile device with a mobile transceiver mobile network location can be used to determine location. Where the device contains a local short range receiver and the short range transmitter has been geo located local short range network location can be used to locate the device . The user input sub system can also take a user entered address and perform a geocode of this address to determine the user s location. The IP network location sub system can utilise IP address and or MAC address location databases to determine device location. A user s location can also be obtained via a third party location source for example but not limited to Yahoo s FireEagle service.

The location broker system uses inputs from and or inputs to best determine the location of the device. It can then output this location as which is represented within the system variables . The system variables can then be used by various sub components within as an input to the context manager therefore influencing relevancy determination.

The location sub system can also consider a heading input in reference to the heading of the device such that the context manager understands the direction in which the device is orientated i.e. North 15 deg etc .

Once location is determined the information used to determine this can be stored within the database storage component using ontologies from within the ontology repository .

Additionally information that is indexed and or extracted from the Online Communities etc and or their Online Systems etc can be time stamped with the time related to the information. This is not typically the Current Time but the Object Time relating to the information where this Object Time can be typically extracted as part of the information itself.

Furthermore it facilitates new knowledge creation and or the storage of knowledge within the Knowledge Bank . Subsequent information and or knowledge transactions are managed by the Knowledge Transaction Management sub system .

Structured Information and or Un semi structured Information is mapped into the system via the Ontology Mapping function . Information can be harvested into the system or just indexed. For inter information silo communications the Inter information Silo Management sub system controls this. Information silos can communicate with each other within the system by agents defined to reason with the various data sources around compatible concept models known to the system and within the Ontology Repository . These agents can be defined within the system based on various products service and or knowledge models recognised by the system.

From information within the system considerable knowledge is generated over time. This knowledge is stored in the Knowledge Bank a virtual layer that indexes and maps the knowledge within the system. Control of the knowledge transactions from within the relevance engine is controlled by the Knowledge Transaction Management sub system . The Knowledge Transaction Management sub system controls knowledge interactions within the system so that transactional models can be implemented around information and or knowledge and or products and or services that use this within the MarketPlace . As such each instance of information and or knowledge and or product and or service can have one or more transactional models to control how a user and or intelligent agent can transact with this instance.

Raw data is collected by the scouting bot spider sub component based on scouting parameters as determined by the system for personalised information retrieval and or discovery. This raw data can then be pre filtered and passed to the SKI component for possible further processing. Scouting parameters can be optimised for each user s individual scouts based on the user s various information requirements context and or system variables .

Data portability functionality is achieved via the data adaptation sub component which can adapt the data for publishing into external third party data silos. A user s PAP can also be accessed via the System API . Privacy and or access control for these mechanisms is controlled by the portability security privacy sub component .

A user or an agent can publish post or push information and or data back into third party applications and or data repositories via the publishing module using but not limited to its sub components including publishing to blogging applications via enterprise applications systems via and or social applications via .

A user can import their initial data and subscriptions utilising OPML outline processor mark up language and or APML attention profile mark up language formats.

As shown in the database storage component comprises of a storage abstraction a semantic store and or a blob store . The physical storage may be various kinds of mechanism for storing computer readable data for example magnetic hard disk or optical drives or memory drives.

The semantic store may be federated by interconnecting multiple semantic stores . The multiple semantic stores may resolve on individual computers individual physical storage or on the same computer and the same individual physical storage.

The blob store may be federated by interconnecting multiple blob stores . The multiple blob stores may resolve on individual computers individual physical storage or on the same computer and or the same individual physical storage.

The storage abstraction manages the interface to the semantic store and or the blob store hiding the complexity of the federated stores to the semantic component providing a standardised abstraction interface to the database storage component .

In one embodiment of the implementation the database storage component can reside within a cloud computing architecture to assist with addressing installation specific scalability and performance criteria.

As shown in the semantic knowledge information SKI component interfaces to creates and or manages information and or knowledge within the system. The SKI component manages the translation of un structured and or semi structured data into defined concept data within the system. Various sub system components within the SKI component perform functions including extraction of intra content metadata content knowledge determination through natural language processing content recognition spatial intention recognition and or temporal bounding.

The SKI component interfaces to the database storage component to store retrieve delete and or query stored data and or blobs within the system.

The SKI component interfaces to the relevance engine to provide structured data for analysis and or inferencing to determine relevance.

The information retrieval component takes un structured and or semi structured data sources conditions this data and passes this conditioned data to the ontology mapping component for system concept mapping. Prior to the importation of new un structured or semi structured data the information retrieval component is typically adapted to recognise these new data sources and or how this information is to be conditioned. Part of the information retrieval component is the function of intelligent agents. An intelligent agent traverses third party information data silos in search of information and or knowledge that is considered relevant common knowledge for the system or considered highly relevant to an individual system user. An example of this function of an intelligent agent is a Twitter intelligent agent that interfaces to Twitter to extract conversational information and or knowledge for processing by the SKI component . Another such example could be a Google Wave intelligent agent.

As part of the information retrieval process the information retrieval component could encounter a link this can be for example in the form of a URL URI a contact link or any link to additional objects to addition information. The information retrieval component can harvest this additional information and process this accordingly. The linkages can be mapped within the semantic layer so that this can be used when determining PAR for a particular object i.e. not only the object s information but its links and the information linked to and so forth is considered when determine PAR of objects. An example of this could be when a URL link may be within a particular object for example a Tweet . Within the system the information retrieval component can further retrieve information contained within the link and any subsequent links found within the content of this link and the content represented by the links found and so on to a system configurable link depth by processing these links and their content concepts to determine the relevance PAR of the original object.

The ontology mapping component is programmed to understand concepts and or solutions to map known un structured and or semi structured data into pre defined system ontologies that are configured within the ontology repository . The ontology mapping component semantically processes and or analyses the data through pre programmed concepts and or solution mapping. Mapping is extensible such that new system ontologies can be defined. Once mapping is configured the system can reason and inference with this data in the relevance engine for relevancy determination.

Prior to proceeding with unstructured data harvesting the SKI component may be adapted so that conditioned data from the information retrieval component can be mapped into system ontologies represented within the ontology repository . This adaption process is performed upon the requirement to harvest retrieve information from a new data source. Each harvest retrieve process is typically dependent on the data being harvested and the interface to this data s repository. The interface harvest process is managed by the system component .

The ontology repository component contains representations of ontologies known to the system. New ontologies can be added to the ontology repository and then from within the ontology mapping component components of these ontologies including but not limited to classes attributes relations function terms restrictions rules axioms and or events can be cross referenced to other such components within known ontologies to create relationships within the system. The Web Ontology Language OWL is typically used to provide cross referencing.

Depending on the nature of the ontology the ontology repository can either store the entire ontology or can reference an external representation of the ontology by maintaining a link to the external representation of the ontology.

The generation and or maintenance of structures for the various information elements takes into account the dynamic changes within the overall system information to regularly re compute PAR for each object. The system uses ontologies to provide a unified machine interpretable domain vocabulary. This allows for a semantic based integration of diverse context sources through linking parameter types of the meta model to the system context ontologies stored within the ontology repository . An example of a linking parameter types is the OWL sameas property.

The system context ontologies define the basic contextual categories and the relations among them. This common high level structuring of context information enables its integration and or consolidation on a semantic level. Furthermore the axiomatic descriptions of context elements such as personal situations home work etc. are used by the context management sub system within the relevance engine to allow context reasoning.

The ontologies within the system can be described using OWL the Web Ontology Language. The system can also utilise PR OWL probability OWL which can be used within the semantic linked Bayesian networks sub component to determine relevance.

The system s context ontologies can consist of but not limited to several modules describing general vocabulary concepts on temporal spatial social connect FOAF personal information socially interconnected communities SIOC user attention profile services OWL S knowledge mapping SKOS device DEV .

The Friend of a Friend or FOAF ontology is a machine readable ontology describing persons their activities and their relations to other people and objects. FOAF is a descriptive vocabulary expressed using RDF Resource Description Framework and OWL Web Ontology Language.

Information stored within the database storage sub system can be geospatially tagged. This tagging can then be used as an input to the Context Management sub system . In its rawest form each piece of information can be tagged with a WGS84 position for example 

As semantic data is stored within the semantic store or federated semantic store the usage of interconnections between ontologies can be utilised such that rather than semantic data referring to absolute location as given by the example above the system can utilise relations between the ontologies to create relative location references between instances of ontologies. For example rather than pin pointing a user at a latitude longitude as the above example does the system could assuming cross ontology support pin point the user at an ontology instance that for example represents an object within the system. This object for example could be the place of work of the user. This can improve spatial query performance when used within the context management sub system within the relevance engine . A further example of this is support for the Geonames ontology as a subset of the systems spatial ontology. By utilising this ontology the system can place objects at predetermined locations and therefore perform additional reasoning around this to determine relevance. An example of the Geonames ontology is depicted in .

Spatial information can also be dimensioned by time via and giving temporal reasoning capability to the system. This information can be used by the spatial intention recognition sub system to statistically reason object location intention.

Semantically Interlinked Online Communities SIOC ontology provides methods for interconnecting discussion methods such as blogs micro blogs forums and mailing lists to each other. It is an open standard machine readable format for expressing the information contained both explicitly and implicitly in Internet discussion methods. In this embodiment SIOC represents the core ontology to support the conversation management sub system and the collaborative management sub system .

The SIOC vocabulary is based on RDF and is defined using RDFS. The system can utilise certain terms within SIOC ontology including but not limited to 

SIOC facilitates a decentralised architecture such that conversations can be carried out over multiple channels and communities both internal and external within to the system. External systems are connected into the system via .

The User Attention Profile UAP ontology is and RDF OWL or RDFa OWL version of the Attention Profiling Mark up Language APML . An example of AMPL in its current form is depicted in .

UAP instances are stored in the database storage semantic stores . These instances can be used by the relevance engine to determine relevance based on the user s current contextual state. The contextual states within UAP provide contextual dimensions to a user s personalised attention profile PAP .

UAP ontology provides a mechanism to integrate trust into the system. The trust of a particular topic of knowledge or information or trust of a particular user by another can be described through interconnections of UAP SIOC and FOAF. UAP can also be used to contextual dimension services and or applications offered within the marketplace .

The capabilities of different devices used within the system may be expressed using an ontology with device specific instances. Because the system understanding the device ontology instance for each device when the user accesses the system from a known device the Personalised Relevancy Interface can provide relevant device specific services. This can also enable the system to model the user interaction with the device within the behavioural modelling sub system and therefore further adaptively adjust the user interface to be personalised and relevant to the user. Also because the system can implicitly understands the user s device capabilities user to user interaction can be adapted so that interactions can take place knowing the device platforms that the interactions are occurring from.

The DEV ontology describes a device connected to the system enabling behavioural usage patterns to be analysed within the behavioural modelling system . DEV instances provide data to the marketplace sub system so that relevant services and or applications can be offered to the user based on their device usage habits patterns.

Simple Knowledge Organisation System SKOS ontology provides a model for expressing the basic structure and content of concept schemes such as classification schemes subject heading lists taxonomies folksonomies and or other types of controlled vocabulary. As an application of the RDF SKOS allows concepts to be documented linked and or merged with other data while still being composed integrated and or published internal and or external to the system via .

The system can employ two kinds of SKOS ontology implementation 1 basic SKOS whereby conceptual resources concepts can be identified using URIs labelled with strings in one or more natural languages documented with various types of notes semantically related to each other in informal hierarchies and association networks and or aggregated into distinct concept schemes i.e. contextual ontologies and 2 advanced SKOS whereby conceptual resources can be mapped to conceptual resources in other schemes and grouped into labelled or ordered collections. Concept labels can also be related to each other.

SKOS can be used within any sub systems of the relevance engine . Examples of how SKOS is used within the system are 

Services and or applications such as rating conversing collaboration sharing interaction and the like can be integrated within the system. Additionally services and or applications may be defined by third party vendors form another category of services within the system. These services and or applications offer functionalities and behaviours that can be described advertised discovered and or composed by others. Because these services and or applications are based around defined ontologies they can interoperate even though they have not been designed explicitly to work together. This interoperability of services is based on the system s ability to understand other services and or applications and reason about their functionalities and behaviours when necessary.

The services sub system is capable of automatic service discovery where intelligent agents scouts within are used to discover web services that fulfil a specific need within some quality constraints and typically without the need for user intervention. The services sub system also supports automatic web service invocation whereby an intelligent agent scout within can automatically read the description of the Web Service s inputs and or outputs and invoke the service accordingly. The services sub system also supports automatic web service composition and interoperation where the system can perform service tasks involving the coordinated invocation of various supported web services based solely on the high level description of the objective.

The OWL S ontology used by the system has three main parts the service profile the process model and the grounding.

The service profile is used to describe what the service does. This information is primarily meant for human reading and includes the service name and description limitations on applicability and quality of service publisher and or contact information. The service profile is used to represent to the user the service benefits.

The process model describes how a user can interact with the service. This description includes the sets of inputs outputs pre conditions and or results of the service execution.

The service grounding specifies the details that a user needs to interact with the service such as communication protocols message formats port numbers etc. This information is hidden from the end user and resides within the semantic metadata.

Other aspects of the services framework can include 1 contracting and or negotiation with ontology based services 2 invocation adaptive execution monitoring and or management of services 3 ontology based security and or privacy issues in services in conjunction with the privacy management sub system 4 reasoning with services in conjunction with the reasoning inferencing sub system 5 ontology based policy management for services.

Natural Language Processing NLP sub system linguistically analyses text within harvested content conversations within the system and user contextual search requests in order to perform named entity recognition and or term classification. Such text analysis can also determine content summarisation topic recognition noun phrase extraction or combinations thereof. In addition predetermined dimensional analysis of the text can determine the tone of the text the demographic or target audience of the text the interest of the target audience within the text the language of the text or combinations thereof.

The NLP sub system identifies concepts of interest and establishes relationships among resources that can be subsequently used by the relevance engine . This allows the system to understand the meaning of harvested textual content. Also the system can understand the user s intention within conversation and or contextual interactions controlled by and .

The NLP sub system maps its outputs into contextual ontologies within the system that have been created to define concepts of content conversations and or services.

A further aspect of the conversation management sub system is that advanced types of services can be offered through the use of trained conversational agents. The conversational agent can understand the user s intention through conversation and accordingly help execute an appropriate action service and or interaction within the system.

The NLP sub system creates semantic metadata for the analysed content in almost real time finding concepts within this content. This metadata can then used within the relevance engine to perform logic based reasoning to infer new implicit knowledge based on what has been already asserted in an explicit manner.

Within the content recognition sub system the system can analyse any form of social media and or content to derive semantic metadata describing the content. This semantic metadata can be derived from semi structured content or by performing processing on the content itself to infer semantic metadata about the content and or its composition. For example the system can extract semantic metadata from content related to image video characteristics as well as analyse the image video and determine for example the subject of the image or the presence of a person within an image video.

Within the spatial recognition sub system a forward prediction of the spatial trajectory of the user s device can be determined which can then used by the relevance engine and or the marketplace to provide real time localised relevance via the Personalised Relevancy Interface . Spatial recognition allows users accessing the system via a device to interact with the Personalised Relevancy Interface based on their current location. Two types of spatial intention recognition can be employed 1 short term interpretation whereby the previous spatial path trajectory is analysed to determine statistically the most probable short term spatial trajectory of the user and or 2 the user s history and system trends are also considered in the analysis.

Data within the system can be time stamped by the temporal sub system so that temporal recognition and or temporal analysis can be applied within the relevance engine . Temporal information can be used by the context management sub system to determine current contextual state requirements.

The information and knowledge control sub system resides within the SKI component . From within the knowledge creation sub system can automatically generate new knowledge through algorithms that assess users PPPs the supported system ontologies and or concepts and or contextual variables within the system. This allows the relevance engine to subsequently present and interact with this new knowledge within relevant containers bound by contextual states as controlled by a user s PAP. This presentation can further be controlled via the MarketPlace in conjunction with the knowledge transaction management sub system such that the system can determine the value of the new created knowledge and the contribution from individual user s based on their PPP. Furthermore the system can determine if knowledge products and or services made available from within the MarketPlace was utilised for new knowledge creation what then determine what attribution if any is required back to the owner of such knowledge product and or service.

As shown in the relevance engine is made up of several sub system components that perform tasks to determine contextual relevance for a user whether it be around other users objects information knowledge and or media. The relevance framework determines a user s personalised attention profile PAP using machine learning semantic Bayesian networks and subsequently ranks individuals objects giving these objects a personalised attention ranking PAR derived for an individual user s PAP . Because each user s PAP is different and changes with context it is possible and likely that the same object within the system has a different PAR for each individual user. Furthermore an object s PAR will change as the context of the user changes.

The relevance engine contains sub systems including semantically linked Bayesian networks relevancy fusion contextual search social network analysis implicit explicit feedback reasoning inferencing collaborative management context management privacy management knowledge management conversation management and or interaction management .

The relevance engine managers a user s attention profile via a user s PAP such that changes in the way a user interacts with objects within the system influence the user s attention profile based around contextual states. This in turn influence object PARs and therefore what is relevant to the user. Interactions within the system collaboration sharing discovery service usage and or conversation may influence the real time PAP of the user.

Contextual states within the system allow the user to cluster knowledge information interactions conversations and or people interests within these predefined and or user definable states. The context management sub system manages the change between user contextual states either manually user selected and or automatically. Automated contextual state changes can occur because of various sensory inputs to the system such as location i.e. in the office as well as relevance driven switching whereby important information knowledge interaction and or conversation can interrupt a particular contextual state and force or recommend a change of contextual state. For example the user could be in a contextual state called home when a piece of information is added to this user s work social collaboration workspace and as such the relevance engine and the context management sub system can determine that a recommended temporary change from the contextual state of home to the contextual state of work .

The context management sub system can have containers within it that allow groupings of particular information knowledge services and or interactions within it that can be controlled by the MarketPlace . These containers can be free premium or enterprise containers that can be branded by marketeers and or controlled by enterprises around project and or innovation concepts. The platform driving the containers can be offered as but not limited to a Software as a Service SaaS or a Platform as a Service PaaS . Such configurations could be installed behind an organisation s firewall.

The social management sub system provides relevancy ranking parameters including trusted source management various forms of centricity analysis and or management of reasoning between two or more PAP s within the system from a social contextual perspective. Connection to the social graph is managed by the SKI sub system and for interconnection to third party data that forms part of the social graph.

Several techniques may be used to analyse a user s social relationship so that this relationship may then be used to determine a user s PAP . Prior to this analysis the social graph may be contextually adjusted based around current context state of the user of interest. This adjustment is performed so as to determine social context and or trust within particular context states as this may have an impact on determining relevancy. For example a user s social connection between friends that are also work colleagues needs to be considered when looking for centricity given that the current context state impacts relevancy.

Methods used within the social management sub system include but are not limited to 1 user degree centricity where the user with the most connections within a particular part of a group is determined probably quite active in the group 2 user closeness centricity where the user with the shortest paths to anyone else within a group is determined probably the group leader 3 user between centricity where the user that is more often on the shortest path between other actors within a group is determined the person that can control flow between people in a group .

By determining these forms of centricity the social management sub system can determine potential influencers within a particular part of the social graph which therefore influences relevancy. For example when socially collaborating within the system trusted sources of collaboration for a particular concept or topic can be determined. By determining the degree of centrality between users PAPs and then using weighted semantically linked Bayesian networks relevancy of a particular concept or topic is determined. Therefore should a trusted user recommend a piece of information for collaboration this analysis may determine if this information is of high relevance to a particular user .

The knowledge management sub system PAR identifies appropriate and trusted sources of recommendations using the knowledge related to these sources can be people or objects i.e. their PAP and then uses this information to assist in relevance seeking for an individual. This approach to knowledge management is oriented around first identifying the appropriate and trusted sources of information and then using the knowledge held by these individuals or objects to assist in the information seeking task of the user. Knowledge within the system can take many forms including information conversations services interactions and or applications.

The implicit explicit feedback sub system uses non personal information from within the semantically linked Bayesian networks to pre seed a new user s profile to overcome cold start issues within the system. Such examples of implicit feedback include common device utilisation knowledge i.e. this user is another iPhone user location time and or content usage habits of socially connected users already known by the system. Explicit feedback commences after the user starts to use the system and is based around aspects that are deemed contextually relevant by the relevance engine temporal social location device attention profile etc. . The system can implement a goal based user profile building methodology where as the user follows this by inputting more information about themselves the discovery of relevant information becomes more prevalent.

Traditional Bayesian networks BNs are one form of uncertainty inference framework used. However when an uncertainty problem i.e. determining contextual relevance is distributed across multiple domains of knowledge a single BN cannot be created. Attempting to integrate separate BNs describing each domain is difficult as inter domain parameters must be interconnected. Furthermore such inter domain interconnections cannot be auto wired based on properties of ontologies describing such domains i.e. through OWL sameas for example . To overcome this difficulty and provide inferencing across domains of knowledge to provide contextual relevance over a multi domain knowledge base the system employs the use of Semantically Linked Bayesian Networks SLBN . SLBN define linkages between semantically similar variables and probabilistic influences are carried by cross linkages from one BN to another by soft evidences and or virtual evidences predominately modelled by the SKOS ontology . SLBN sub system resides within the relevance framework . SLBN are well suited to calculating a user s PAP to determine relevance and model the user s behaviour because of the well defined ontologies known to the system within the ontology repository and the well defined linkages between these ontologies predominately modelled by the SKOS ontology .

The behavioural modelling sub system performs multiple tasks to determine a user s contextually bound PAP . The behavioural modelling sub system analyses user interactions within the system as a user collaborates shares discovers searches and or generally interacts with objects within the system. This form of explicit feedback allows the behavioural modelling sub system to store this usage within the semantic metadata which can then be used for future relevance determination within the system. Aspects of this usage include click streaming user interaction streaming collaboration streaming and or conversation streaming. The associated semantic metadata is in effect a breadcrumb i.e. a historical representation of a user s path through the semantic metadata recorded by links within this metadata for future relevance determination under similar identifiable conditions .

Another part of the behavioural modelling sub system is its approach to the of creation of user profiles such that this modelling anticipates a user s profile with minimal user participation thereby initially implicitly generating a user s personalised attention profile . This can minimise the upfront time investment required by the user to gain benefit from system usage. This can increase the likelihood that the user will see benefit in using the system with minimal system setup.

The system exploits socially connected user PAPs to determine PAP unions as a proxy measure of the likely relevance over particular aspects of the individual s respective PAP . A user s individual PAP changes with changes to contextual states as determined by context management . The system stores a user s PAP in semantic metadata with every change in PAP storing a historical record of a user s PAP . This metadata provides future information for determining relevance as two closely related instances of PAP either two instances of an individual user or user to user indicates the likelihood of perceived relevance related to these PAP instances i.e. the greater the similarity between two PAPs the greater the likelihood that this indicates objects of relevance .

The behavioural modelling sub system in conjunction with the knowledge management sub system allows the user to provide explicit feedback on information sources. This can provide additional information to the system in situations where additional knowledge about the appropriateness of sources is available to the user but not the system or where the user wishes to be more selective about the choice of information source. It also provides a form of safety valve in case of any discrepancies in how the system and the user perceive the trustworthiness of a source. When a user provides such feedback this is stored within the semantic metadata of system for future reference when similar reasoning is being performed with the reasoning inferencing sub system.

The privacy management sub system restricts semantic metadata from a particular user based on the system policies and user settings. Such restricted metadata is not used within this user s PAP and not used within the relevance engine in general for this user. The user can configure various levels of service that require different levels of private semantic data sharing. This is controlled by the privacy management sub system . Access control of information available via the System API is determined by the privacy management sub system . One example of access control employed within this API is FOAF SSL management.

The contextual search sub system uses a user s PAP to personalise a user s search query and to better order and or filter the search results to rank search results in order of relevancy. An example of personalisation of a user s search query is where a location keyword is added to the search query. The contextual search sub system allows searches to be conducted within the systems semantic metadata as well as external online information sources . The search results are augmented and or adapted based on a user s current PAP .

The relevancy fusion sub system fuses relevant objects from within the semantic metadata to the necessary personalised relevancy interface mapping required for the device a user is currently using based on the DEV ontology . These relevant objects including knowledge information conversations and or services. The fusion of objects to the personalised relevancy interface will take each individual object s predetermined characteristics into account with this being determined by a user s PAP . Various forms of clustering techniques are used to optimise the Personalised Relevancy Interface .

The relationship between containers and contextual states and the underlying system is shown in . Contextual states and represent the states that embody the containers within the system. Contextual states are managed by the context management sub system . Each container within the system and have a particular set of concepts goals policies authorities and or privacy methods associated with it that defines ownership of the container privacy sharing and or collaboration within a container and or interaction within objects people and or agents that are members and or followers of the container. Furthermore container economies can be created by container owners and or participants such that objects can be traded within and across containers.

The containers and are containers of concepts and can contain any types of objects the system supports e.g. email RSS wave document information etc within the contextual states and of the system. Containers are categorised by concepts mapped to them. Therefore objects from within a particular contextual state that contain particular concepts are mapped into a container. A container may contain a mesh of all objects relating to a particular set of concepts bound by a particular contextual state. Containers and can be created by the user or can be recommended by the system to the user. Users of containers can set up goals for the container to achieve and then the system will work towards achieving such goals. For example a container may be created around particular concepts and the container can be assigned a goal to search for people information knowledge and or data around these concepts until a certain metric is reached. This example relates to an agent based search around concepts that can trigger goal achievement.

The objects within each container are determined by the relevance framework sub system which in turn is driven by sub system . The various sub components of store set determine control and or reason with the various methods listed herein to govern the operation of a particular container e.g. etc . Therefore the complete operation of the containers may be governed by the relevance engine . Furthermore objects within these containers may be sorted based on various mechanisms around type of object relevancy of information with objects objects from a certain person s time of object creation location of object creation or where the object currently resides or a combination of these mechanisms. Additionally sorting is influenced by the contextual state of operation. Therefore containers with the same concepts could be sorted differently based on contextual information at the time of consuming the contents of a container e.g. contextual state can be influenced by location time device access choice social context connections etc .

Container s interconnect with other container through container pipes. These are represented by and within the contextual state of as well as representing the container pipes between contextual states. These pipes can be between some or all containers within contextual states. Furthermore pipes can be between containers contained within different context states of a user.

The system assess the concept mapping between various containers and the container pipes and alerts users and or agents of possible opportunities for value creation based on concept matches. This inter container concept pipeline assessment allows the system to recommend to the user affinities both within and or external to the system people with similar interests people and or objects that are experts on particular concepts innovation opportunities collaboration recommendations relevant product and or service offerings and the like.

The containers within the system retain all or selected objects and the interactions related to these objects over time. This provides a form of knowledge retention capability for the user so that a user can navigate between various containers without losing their knowledge or position within a particular container. Users and or agents can preview the state of a container at any point in history. This is used by the relevance engine to determine future relevancy.

Information knowledge and or objects come from various forms of digital information and or interactions. They can be resident within a broad range of memory within various repositories including devices PC s laptops mobile telephones MID s etc on local hard disks within cloud computing storage within intranets and or on the web in general as indicated in .

Containers can be spawned such that related containers can be created. The pipes interconnecting spawned containers can be configured in various manners to allow spawned containers to inherit certain properties such that future objects can be mapped into both. An example of use here is a public and a private container mapped on the same concepts such that certain objects can be made public and shared. Furthermore various agents can be configured to act in different manners on spawned containers. This allows for different container scenarios to be developed to simulate multiple goal outcomes.

Containers can be spatially bound. An example of such a spatially bound container could be a library or a class room or a company s research and development office such that knowledge objects interaction collaboration search discovery and or creation are personally ranked with spatial bounding taken into consideration. Furthermore this spatial bounding can take the form of a virtual spatial bounding such that knowledge objects interaction collaboration search discovery and or creation appear within the container spatially relative to each other but not fixed to an absolute geographic spatial reference. When containers are bound by location whether it is virtual or physical the Personalised Relevancy Interface can display objects based on their spatial relationships such that the End User experiences augmented browsing such that spatial reality is considered and the End User can immerse themselves within the virtual or physical environment and interact accordingly.

Furthermore access to these spatially bound containers can be controlled by the policies authorities and or privacy methods set up for the container by the container owner or container administrator. This allows spatially bound containers to be transaction controlled within the MarketPlace . Furthermore products and or services offered within the MarketPlace can be physically and or virtually spatial configured to appear with relevant containers. One example of the application of access control of spatially bound containers is access to knowledge information users and or agents within a container can be controlled by either an absolute spatial reference to a user and the container and or a relative spatial reference between two or more pieces of knowledge objects interaction collaboration search discovery and or creation.

Inter user inter container connectivity is shown in . To facilitate collaboration conversation interaction and or identification of affinity experience and or expertise of users within the system containers within user s individual contextual states are interconnected through inter user inter container pipes .

The inter user inter container pipes are pipes that exist between user s containers. These pipes are bound by the policies authorities and or privacy established by the owner and or administrator of each container. Through sub system concept alignment and affinity experience and or expertise can be determined and therefore the system can provide such recommendations to users and or agents. Furthermore public information discovery can be better facilitated into containers with similar concept foundations. Therefore even if a user or agent may not necessarily have a close degree of separation with another user or agent concept matching and or interaction behaviour can be shared to improve the overall information discovery. This can also facilitate collaboration around concepts as well as social connection context.

A desktop browser example of the Personalised Relevancy Interface is depicted in . Note that this is an example of the personalised relevancy interface however the layout is customised for each device accessing the system with the device having its interface capabilities modalities represented as an instance within the ontology repository . Furthermore each user accessing the system can customise the layout. Within this desktop browser example the interface is an AJAX HTML5 empowered interface leveraging key functionality available within these technologies.

The left navigation window outlines the contextual states the containers the user s dashboard and their settings. Each contextual state with the user s profile is displayed in section with the list of contextual states at . The current contextual state in operation is highlighted showing this state in focus. The containers within the particular contextual state in focus are shown in with the list being in . Furthermore the container in focus is highlighted. Also within is the Dashboard selector with the different configurable dashboards listed in . System settings for contextual states containers and or dashboards are configurable in .

The objects stream shows the streams of information within a particular contextual state and container in focus . The stream of objects can be displayed in different manners based on the view selected including but not limited to complete object summary view and list view . The stream of objects can be reordered based on various filters including but not limited to a native view which sorts on time a focus view which sorts on relevancy based on an object s PAR a speed view which sorts based on a combination of relevancy and predicted interaction time of the content such that a user can interact with relevant objects within the stream . An example of this could be an email with relevant subject matter that requires a simple yes no answer. The user can also define user defined filters to custom order the object stream . Furthermore the owner of the container can tailor filter parameters object types weighting concept weighting social context weighting contextual state influence weighting etc. to manipulate the order of the object stream based on the policies privacy and or authority of a particular container. The stream of objects can be limited to particular object types or combination thereof. As new object types are supported by the system through inclusion within the knowledge information semantic system they can become available to the user to select by type.

Each particular object in the stream can be put into focus. From this the object can be further expanded out to view. In object interactions can take place within the particular object using various interaction types e.g. Wave Instant Messaging etc . Furthermore the concept module smart discovery module smart interaction module and or smart search module become enabled and initialised based on the context and concepts the PAR of the object in focus.

The container concepts module outlines the particular concepts found in the object that in is focus. These concepts can be represented in such a way that they demonstrate the relationship to the container s concepts indicating one degree of relevancy of the object not the complete relevancy ranking as this is made up of more than just concept matching . Furthermore concepts for the object can be rated and or flagged to further improve the concept mapping function of the system. Additionally concepts can be added deleted manipulated to further improve this process in a manual tagging manner. Comparisons between container concepts and object concepts can be displayed. Additionally should the user believe the object has been incorrectly concept mapped into a particular container the user can drag the object into a different container. Also the user can drag supported object types into the concept window to have the system categorise this and add this to the user s container.

The smart discovery module allows the user to discover relevant information knowledge and or users based on concepts from with the object in focus. This allows the user to discover new information. The discovery can be presented in a number of different visualisation methods including but not limited to tree view concept wheel and or fishbone. As the user navigates through the discovery information the user can select a relevant piece of information to be inserted into the container for future reference. Furthermore subject matter experts that the system knows about can be recommended here and the user can subsequently review the public knowledge profile of the recommended user. This allows experts experience and or affinity relationships to be determined discovered. Furthermore the user can then interact with the recommended user via the smart interaction module .

The smart interaction module allows a user to interact around a particular object based on sharing collaborating conversing messaging flagging and or storing. The smart interaction module can determine based on the objects concepts the social context the contextual state the PAP of users and or the policies of the container to determine which other users the user would like to interact with. This function allows the user to interact with other users based on these broad arrays of parameters. Furthermore the smart interaction module interacts with the context management sub system such that supplementary to the interaction process contextual information can be passed as part of the interaction such that users and or agents and or the system can utilise contextual information as part of the interaction to further contextually enhance the interaction. This passing of contextual information is performed over the inter user inter container pipes . One such example of this is when a user and or agent invokes a VoIP call to another user and or agent and as part of the call process contextual information is passed that details the context of the interaction in this example it could be briefing a colleague on a meeting whereby information about the meeting the location each participants calendar and the like are exchanged and displayed as part of the personalised relevancy interface of each user and or agent . Contextual information in this example is relevant information to assist the call interaction for example information about the user being called common connected colleagues common affinities experience profiles travel arrangements location etc. . This can be viewed as a technique to initialise each interaction with the system with contextually relevant information. The process of contextual information passing through the inter user inter container pipes between users and or agents further contextually enhances the smart interaction process by reducing interaction latency and delay and further priming the interaction such that the information exchange is relevant to the users and or agents instigating the interaction.

Contextual information passing can also allow agents to interact on a user s behalf to automate the interaction process based on context information. This can allow user to delegate an interaction to an agent on review of the contextual information passed as part of the interaction. For example the user within the VoIP call example above could activate an agent to act on their behalf during the interaction.

The smart interaction module can also be set into different modes such that interaction only takes place around close degrees of social connections or alternatively takes place with other system users not necessarily connected within a close degree of social connection. Interaction can also take place between users and agents and agents and agents. Furthermore the type of interaction is governed by the object type the container policies the device being used and or the user agent being interacted with. The various sub systems in manage this process.

The smart search module allows the user to search for concepts text and or metadata linkages within a container within the user s knowledge pool within the connected knowledge of the system and or broadly across information contained within the system. Within the smart search interface multiple order searches can be set up to look across various connected knowledge models. Furthermore searches can be saved and associated with particular containers therefore allowing the search to be conducted again at a later point in time by either a user and or an agent. Additionally searches can be shared between users and or agents. Also searches can be setup with necessary goals that can be added to the goals of the particular container whereby the system will monitor the search and the associated goals and notify the user and or agent when a goal has been met. Searches can be configured such that agents are tailored to a particular user s PAP.

A user can select more than one object to be in focus within the object stream . When this is done the concepts smart discovery smart interaction and or smart search modules are initialised based on the system considering all aspects of each in focus object. This allows multiple objects to be considered in clusters and to be interacted with and or used for search and or discovery accordingly.

Container views and the associated mechanisms to interact with the personalised relevancy interface based on smart discovery smart interaction and or smart search are optimised for the supported modalities of the device . Therefore the concepts of the personalised relevancy interface remain the same independent of the device however the user experiences of discovery interaction and or search are optimised for the particular device the user is accessing the system from.

The personalised dashboard option allows the user s personalised knowledge and or attention profiles to be reviewed. Furthermore a user can review the knowledge and or attention profiles of various users the user is given permission to do so as well as the knowledge pools of the overall system.

The Collaborative Management sub system illustrated in controls collaboration aspects within the system. This includes collaboration within contextual states and their containers around particular projects interests and the like. The Collaborative Management sub system is coupled to the Context Privacy Conversation Interaction and Knowledge Management sub systems.

The Collaborative Management sub system provides a platform of structured collaboration. This platform is built on top of the contextual ontologies contained within the SKI component . Structured collaboration is achieved through an inbuilt collaborative system as well as interfacing to third part collaboration tools for example but not limited to Wilds and Blogs.

Corporate collaboration systems can be interfaced via the Corporate Collaboration Interface Management sub system which then interfaces with the Interaction Management sub system which controls secure interfacing and or access to systems residing behind firewalls.

The Smart Collaboration Management sub system controls collaboration recommendations and functions such as smart sharing of likeminded concepts and corporate collaboration interfacing. Each user and each intelligent agent has its own PAP and own PPP. From this each user and intelligent agent can be represented by a collection of attention and or knowledge capabilities. These collections are managed within the SKI component . These collections of capabilities are then used for several functions within the Collaborative Management sub system .

The first function relates to determining users and or intelligent agents that have certain experience or expertise or values and belief based on these capabilities. This is determined by the Expertise Experience and Affinity Management sub system . By determining these parameters the system then uses this to allow expertise and or affinity connections to be determined discovered and or recommended between users and or intelligent agents .

The second function is to determine proactive ways to share collaborate information and knowledge to other users and or intelligent agents . This is done by the Collaboration Recommendation Management sub system . allows smart interaction to take place around this information and knowledge under particular contextual states and containers within. It interfaces directly with the Knowledge Management sub system . For example a particular list of users and or intelligent agents can be automatically generated and recommended as the interaction list based on a particular piece of information for a particular contextual state. This recommended interaction is then presented to the user within the Personalised Relevancy Interface . If actioned on interaction is controlled by the Interaction Management sub system .

Concept collaboration can also occur outside of close degrees within the social connect of a user or intelligent agent . In other words information and or knowledge can be shared and or collaborated on based on concepts of the information and or knowledge independent of social degrees of separation. This facilities information and or knowledge connection spawning within the system and is not necessarily restricted by the social degrees of separation. Policies within the privacy Management control the parameters of concept collaboration.

Using the attention and or knowledge capabilities of each individual user and or intelligent agent and through understanding both their social connect via the Social Network Analysis sub system and through the Like Concept Collaboration sub system a multi faceted knowledge and innovation network is formed. This can use semantic ontology concept mapping to generate new knowledge and or innovation as well as using the functions of the Collaborative Management sub system to insert this new knowledge into the personalised relevancy interface of other users and or intelligent agents based on their contextual state.

As data within the SKI component is typically temporally bound the user and intelligent agent attention and or knowledge capabilities change with time. This influences the innovation network therefore resulting in new knowledge and innovation hypotheses that can be presented to the user within a particular contextual state.

Interactions within the system are controlled by the Interaction Management sub system illustrated in . Interactions management policies are managed here within the Interaction Policy Manager sub system . The Interaction Policy Manager determines preferred interaction bearers to be used within the system based on both the users involved in a particular interaction as well as the policy around the data information being interacted on.

Interactions within the system are between users and can be either one to one or one to many. Interactions can also take place between users and or intelligent agents such that it is a user to machine and machine to user interaction. This is indicated in with user interacting with users one user or users through to n users . Interactions can occur such that they are performed on an asymmetrical basis whereby policy determines that the interaction can take place in one direction only.

Through the Smart Collaboration Management sub system which uses a user s PAP a list of users can be automatically semi automatically with user intervention or combinations thereof generated to interact with. This is determined through the concepts represented by the Information Piece and the current contextual state. Each user will have a preferred interaction bearer and these will be taken into consideration by the Interaction Policy Manager when determining the bearer for interaction.

The Interaction Policy Manager sub system checks that the interaction being requested is allowed under policies determined around particular context from within the Context Management sub system . The Interaction Policy Manager sub system checks that both the state of user requesting the interaction and the states of the recipient users and are in the correct context to perform the interaction.

Interaction bearers can include micro blogs e.g. Tweets email waves SMS RSS Atom VoIP Video and or instant messaging. Future interaction bearers can also be added. Formatting of the interaction e.g. message is performed by sub system . Interactions can be formatted in different manners with this being controlled by the Interaction Policy Manager .

Messages can be encrypted through various encryption algorithms and then substituted with an advertisement in public streams such that only the intended authorised recipients can view the unencrypted message. This provides a means for viral advertising of both the system solution as well as third party advertisers. One form of authorisation can be formed through the use of user and message keys that are exchanged to unlock messages. These keys can be bound by contextual states and containers within these states and can also be temporally and or spatially bound. Message encryption is performed within sub system . Furthermore sub system performs interaction message formatting based on the user the bearer and the interface to the bearer host.

Interactions can be contained within the platform that can reside behind a firewall and the interactions are performed over IP SEC and VPN. The Interaction Policy Manager sub system interfaces with access control systems to perform user authentication within an organisation or entity.

The Interaction Management sub system provides valid interaction types to the Relevance Framework sub system for inclusion into the Personalised Relevancy Interface . Additionally sub system can also interact with bearers within various systems including mobile operators ISPs enterprises and or unified messaging solutions.

The MarketPlace sub system is illustrated in . The MarketPlace sub system is an ontology based product and or services framework that allows advertisers and or marketeers to map their products and or services to various concepts supported by ontologies within the Knowledge Information Semantics sub system and stored in the ontology repository .

The MarketPlace sub system is comprised of three sub systems the ontology concept to product service sub system the currency sub system and the analytics sub system . Within sub system products and or services along with their associated policies parameters price concepts and or relevant context are mapped into the system via the concept mapping and value determination sub system and the context control sub system . Advertisers and or marketeers can develop concept maps into supported system ontologies and program the contextual parameters that will cause a marketplace event to occur. Furthermore new system concepts can be created by the advertiser utilising the concept creation sub system . The concept creation sub system allows advertisers to develop concepts from their products and or service offerings and link these concepts and the associated ontology into the SKI component .

The concept mapping and value determination sub system can automatically map an advertiser s product and or services inventory into the existing concepts within the system. This mapping semantically annotates concepts about the advertiser s product and or services interconnecting these concepts into the SKI component . From the collective knowledge and behavioural modelling data within the system concept optimisation on the advertiser s product and or services inventory can be performed to minimise any cold start issues with new concepts within the system that advertiser s inventory has generated. Furthermore the value determination system then allows advertisers and or marketeers to bid for concept mapping opportunities within the system. Contextual parameters such as location and or time can be set to further enhance the contextual relevance of a product or service. Furthermore container goals can be linked to providing relevant services and or products linked to user constructed goals. Upon completing this mapping process a value is placed on the map and this is the cost to the advertiser marketeer to trigger such a marketplace event. This cost can be calculated in various traditional online advertising models such as CPC CPM along with cost per action. Furthermore system specific cost models are presented that are tied to tokens and vouchers.

The advertiser and or marketeer can additionally format the object style for inclusion into the object stream based and the various devices supported by the system represented by instances of the DEV ontology . This is used by the sub systems within the relevance framework to correctly display the marketplace object within the relevant objects of a container. Premiums can be paid based on the nature of the concept mapping the context parameters and or the demand on the particular concepts being mapped.

The policies of a container can determine if marketplace objects can be inserted into the object stream of a particular container.

A service within the system could relate to a particular interaction that can be presented to the user within the smart interaction module of the Personalised Relevancy Interface . This interaction can be bound by the parameters of the service model as well as the policies of the container in focus. Products and or services can be presented within the smart discovery module and or smart search module . This allows relevant products and or service to be presented to the user for consumption. This presentation can also be bound by the policies of the container in focus.

The currency system contains the payment gateway sub system the tokens vouchers sub system and the virtual currency sub system . The payment gateway sub system allows interconnection to other payment gateways so that the system can support payments for products and or services. Information in relation to the payment types supported and the payment parameters are interconnected into the relevance engine and the knowledge information semantics sub system to allow payment gateways to be standardised within the system. The tokens vouchers sub system allows products and or services to be consumed based on particular advertisers and or marketeers tokens and or vouchers. An example of this is a mobile coupon whereby a user can pay for a service or product based on contextual situational matches i.e. location time etc and or relevancy matches. The virtual currencies sub system can allow products and or services to be traded based on virtual currencies. Furthermore users of the system can associate their information and or knowledge with concepts and promote market these within the marketplace which can then also be traded using the real or virtual currencies tokens or vouchers. This allows knowledge information and or innovation economies to be established within the system.

The analytics system contains the concept consumption sub system the conversions sub system the goal and data sub system and or the prospects sub system . The concept consumption sub system provides analytics on how products and or services mapped to particular concepts are being consumed. This provides detailed analytics around the contextual aspects of consumption allowing advertisers and or marketeers to constantly review their concept mapping and or context control aspects of their products and or services. The conversions sub system provides detailed analytics on the conversion rates of products and or services. This provides useful feedback to advertisers and or marketeers on the conversion of their products and or services. Furthermore the analytics system can interact with a 3party online site such that concept conversion and or return on concept can be measured and reported to the advertiser. Additionally based on this example of a closed loop conversion system revenues for user concept transactions could be revenue shared. The goal and data sub system provides analytics based on known goals and or data within the system such that new modified goals and or objects can be recommended to users through either smart discovery smart search smart interaction and or within the user s knowledge dashboard that will facilitate addition product and or service consumption. The prospects sub system provides analytics based on reasoning of system data around contextual ontologies within to ascertain if additional concept mapping and or context control can be associated with a product and or service to further improve its consumption and or conversions.

All the features disclosed in this specification including any accompanying claims abstract and drawings may be replaced by alternative features serving the same equivalent or similar purpose unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is one example of series of equivalent or similar features.

The methods in accordance with the disclosed embodiments may be implemented using a general purpose computer system. The methods may be implemented as software such as one or more application programs executable within the computer system. In particular the steps of the method are affected by instructions in the software that are carried out within the computer system. The instructions may be formed as one or more code modules each for performing one or more particular tasks. The software may also be divided into two separate parts in which a first part and the corresponding code modules performs the method and a second part and the corresponding code modules manage a user interface between the first part and the user. The software may be stored in a computer readable medium including the storage devices described herein. The software is loaded into the computer system from the computer readable medium and then executed by the computer system. A computer readable medium having such software or computer program recorded on the computer readable medium is a computer program product. The use of the computer program product in the computer system preferably affects an advantageous apparatus.

The computer system comprises a computer module input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard touch screen a mouse pointer device and output devices including a display device. An external Modulator Demodulator Modem transceiver device may be used by the computer module for communicating to and from a communications network. The network may be a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or a private WAN. The computer may be connected to the network using a high capacity e.g. cable connection and the modem may be a broadband modem. A wireless modem may also be used for wireless connection to the network.

The computer module typically includes at least one processor unit and a memory unit for example formed from semiconductor random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . The computer module may also include but is not limited to a number of input output I O interfaces including an audio video interface that couples to the video display and loudspeakers an I O interface for the keyboard and mouse and an interface for the external modem. The computer module also has a local network interface that permits coupling of the computer system to a local computer network known as a Local Area Network LAN . The local network may also couple to the wide area network via a connection.

Storage devices are provided and typically include but are not limited to a secondary storage device such as local hard disk drive HDD or remote network attached storage device NAS .

Typically the application programs are resident on the secondary storage device and read and controlled in execution by the processor. Intermediate storage of such programs and any data fetched from the networks may be accomplished using the semiconductor memory possibly in concert with the hard disk drive. In some instances the application programs may be supplied to the user encoded on one or more CD ROM and read via the corresponding drive or alternatively may be read by the user from the networks. Still further the software can also be loaded into the computer system from other tangible computer readable media. Computer readable media refers to any storage medium that participates in providing instructions and or data to the computer system for execution and or processing. Examples of such media include floppy disks magnetic tape CD ROM a hard disk drive a ROM or integrated circuit a magneto optical disk or a computer readable card such as a PCMCIA card and the like whether or not such devices are internal or external of the computer module.

The methods to be described may also be implemented at least in part in dedicated hardware such as one or more integrated circuits performing the functions or sub functions to be described. Such dedicated hardware may include dedicated processors digital signal processors or one or more microprocessors and associated memories.

A number of methods servers systems and computer program products have been disclosed with reference to certain embodiments. The embodiments disclosed are applicable to the computer and data processing industries amongst others.

The foregoing describes only some embodiments and modifications and or changes can be made thereto without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments the embodiments being illustrative and not restrictive.

Furthermore the inventions have described in connection with certain embodiments it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the inventions. Also the various embodiments described above may be implemented in conjunction with other embodiments e.g. aspects of one embodiment may be combined with aspects of another embodiment to realize yet other embodiments. Further each independent feature or component of any given assembly may constitute an additional embodiment.

