---

title: Method, system, and apparatus for communicating with a computer management device
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus are provided for enabling communication with a computer management device. According to a method one or more vendor specific commands for communicating with a management device are defined according to a first communication standard. The one or more vendor specific commands are then transmitted to the management device over a communication link conforming to a second communication standard. A device conforming to the second communication standard may be emulated on the communication link. If vendor specific commands are received by the management device that are not intended for the emulated device, the commands may be used for communicating with the management device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08359384&OS=08359384&RS=08359384
owner: American Megatrends, Inc.
number: 08359384
owner_city: Norcross
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100924
---
This application is a continuation of and claims benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 790 160 filed Mar. 1 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 827 258 entitled METHOD SYSTEM AND APPARATUS FOR COMMUNICATING WITH A COMPUTER MANAGEMENT DEVICE by Subash Kalbarga which status is allowed the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Computers are often linked together through networks to allow the resources of a computer at one location to be utilized by users located at a different location. In a distributed environment such as this computers known as servers perform various tasks for client computers that communicate with the servers over a network. Servers enable sharing of files and other resources between client computers and the server. As an example a world wide web web server may provide documents and other resources to client computers over the Internet.

It is often necessary to manage the operation of a server computer. For instance it may be desirable to determine the relative health of a server computer by viewing screen display information and by interacting with the server through user input devices. This is especially true for server computers that maintain resources that are utilized by a large number of client computers such as within a corporate network or the Internet. For many conventional systems the technician that needs to view the screen displays and interact with the server being managed is required to be physically located at the site of the server. However it is not always feasible for a technician to be physically present at the location of the server computer.

For example a system administrator of a corporate network may be present at one location while the servers of the corporate network may be spread around the country or even the globe. To effectively manage the servers on the corporate network the system administrator must be able to monitor and control each of the server computers regardless of their location. Because the system administrator cannot be physically present at each server to be managed effective management of the server computers becomes very difficult if not impossible. As a result it can be very costly to maintain servers located in disparate physical locations.

Some systems for remotely administering server computers utilize a server computer management device connected to each server computer. Each management device connects to a video output of a server computer and is operative to compress and transmit the video output of the server computer to a remote computer via a network connection. User input received at the remote computer is transmitted to the management device and is provided by the management device to the server computer as if the input was made locally to the server computer. In this manner the management device can receive user input commands provided at the remote computer and provide the input commands to the server computer as if the input commands were physically generated by a user at the server computer. A user of the remote computer can control the operation of the server computer from a remote location and perform administration tasks as necessary.

Because many server computers are headless and do not have a directly attached display or input devices installing and configuring a management device has previously been very difficult. In particular some management devices implement custom communication hardware for communicating with the server computer. Because custom hardware is utilized by the management device a hardware driver must be provided for each operating system with which the management device will be utilized. The hardware driver must then be installed each time a management device is attached to a server computer. Because server computers are typically headless it can be very difficult to ensure that a driver has been successfully installed for communicating with the management device.

Another problem with previous management devices relates to the redirection of the video output of the server computer to a remote computer. In particular when a user of the remote computer connected to the management device moves a mouse cursor at the remote computer or other type of input pointer there can be a long delay before the movement is reflected in the redirected video output of the server computer that is displayed at the remote computer. This can be very frustrating and confusing for a user. Accordingly there is a need for an improved management device that may be installed and utilized without the need for a custom hardware driver and that can improve the speed of a user input cursor on a remote computer when redirecting video from the server computer. It is with respect to these considerations and others that the present invention has been made.

In accordance with the present invention the above and other problems are solved by an improved management device for connection to a host computer that does not require a custom hardware driver. Moreover according to the methods systems and apparatus provided herein the speed of a user input cursor on a remote computer can be greatly increased when the management device is utilized to redirect the video output of the host computer to a remote computer.

According to one aspect of the invention an improved management device for managing the activities of a host computer is provided. The management device is operative to receive the video output of the host computer and to transmit the video output over a network to a remote computer. The management device is also operative to receive user input such as keyboard commands or mouse movements and selections from the remote computer and to provide the user input to the host computer. Through the use of such a management device a remotely located user of the remote computer can view the video output of the host computer and control the operation of the host computer. To accomplish these tasks the management device receives the video output of the host computer and provides input to the mouse and keyboard connectors of the host computer.

The management device provided herein is also operative to communicate with a host computer over a standard communication link such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connection. To enable communication between the host computer and the management device the management device emulates a standard device on the communication link. For instance according to one embodiment the management device is operative to emulate a standard mass storage device such as a CD ROM device on the communication link. Because the device is a standard device the operating system of the host computer can utilize a standard operating system vendor provided driver to communicate with the emulated device. No custom hardware driver is necessary to communicate with the device emulated by the management device on the communication link.

According to one embodiment of the invention the emulated mass storage device can be utilized to redirect the contents of a mass storage device connected to the remote computer to the host computer. Through the use of program code executing on the management device and the remote computer the contents of a mass storage device physically connected to the remote computer such as a CD ROM device can be made available to the host computer. In particular program code executing on the management device exposes the contents of the mass storage device of the remote computer to the host computer through the emulated mass storage device on the communication link. All read and write requests from the host computer are intercepted by the management device and relayed over the network to the remote computer. From the perspective of the host computer the emulated device appears no different than a physical device actually connected to the host computer.

According to another embodiment of the invention the emulated device provided by the management device on the communications link can be utilized for out of band communication between the host computer and the management device. Out of band communication may be useful for instance for configuring aspects of the operation of the management device from the host computer. In order to provide out of band communication without requiring a custom hardware driver the host computer issues vendor specific commands that conform to a second communication standard to the managed device over the communication link. For instance according to one embodiment of the invention the host computer issues small computer system interface SCSI commands over a USB connection to the emulated mass storage device in order to perform out of band communication with the management device.

When the management device receives commands destined for the emulate device firmware executing on the management device determines whether the commands are actually intended for the emulated device such as a read or write command or whether the commands are vendor specific commands intended for out of band communication with the management device. If the commands are actually intended for communication with the emulated device these commands are processed in a manner that allows the host computer to communicate with the emulated device. If the commands are intended for communicating with the management device itself the commands are intercepted and utilized by the management device for the requested purpose. The management device may also perform return communication with the host computer utilizing vendor specific commands.

According to one aspect of the invention out of band communication between the host computer and the management device is utilized to configure aspects of the management device. In particular according to this embodiment of the invention an application executing on the host computer is operative to transmit vendor specific commands to the emulated device over the communications link for configuring the management device. The management device is operative to receive the commands to determine that the commands are not actually intended for the emulated device and to utilize the commands to configure itself. For instance commands may be issued to configure a network address or other device specific feature of the management device.

According to another aspect of the invention out of band communication between the host computer and the management device may be utilized to increase the speed of a user input cursor such as a mouse cursor shown on the redirected display of the remote computer. In particular according to this embodiment of the invention the management device is operative to continually receive data from the remote computer indicating the current position of a user input cursor on the remote computer. An application executing on the host computer is operative to periodically transmit vendor specific commands to the emulated device requesting the current position of the user input cursor on the remote computer. The management device receives the vendor specific commands determines that the commands are not actually intended for the emulated device and in response to the commands returns the current position of the user input cursor of the remote computer to the host computer. The application executing on the host computer then sets the location of the user input cursor on the host computer to the same position as the received current position. In this mariner the position of the user input cursor on the host computer more closely follows the position of the user input cursor on the remote computer and increases the speed of the cursor on the remote computer.

According to various aspects of the invention a method a computer controlled apparatus and a computer readable medium having instructions capable of performing the various embodiments described herein are also provided. These and various other features as well as advantages which characterize the present invention will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings.

As described briefly above embodiments of the present invention provide methods apparatus and computer readable media for communicating with a server management device. In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures aspects of the present invention and the illustrative operating environment will be described. and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the invention may be implemented. While the invention will be described in the general context of enabling communication between a host computer and a management device those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may also be implemented in combination with other computer systems and program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules or data files may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Turning now to a general operating environment for embodiments of the present invention will be described. As shown in a system is provided according to the various embodiments of the invention. The system includes a host computer that is to be remotely managed. A management device also referred to alternately as a redirection device an interaction device or management hardware is interposed between a network and the host computer . A remote computer is linked to the network and the host computer may or may not be linked to the same network or another network not shown. The network may be of various forms such as a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN including the Internet. A user is located at the remote computer and remotely manages the host computer via the network and management device .

The management device may be linked to the host computer through several input output I O connections of the host computer . Generally a host computer will have a video display output such as an analog or digital VGA output. Also the host computer typically includes a PS 2 port or ordinary serial port configured as a mouse port a keyboard port and may also include a universal serial bus USB port .

The video display output provides a signal that ordinarily is passed directly to a display screen or monitor where screen frames are displayed for a user present at the host computer . However in the embodiment shown the video display output provides a video signal to a video input of the management device . The management device then passes the video signal through a video output to the display screen where a normal video display of screen frames occurs. Additional details regarding the operation of the management device and its operations upon the video signal are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 247 876 entitled Systems and Methods for Establishing Interaction Between A Local computer and a Remote Computer which is assigned to the assignee of the instant patent application and expressly incorporated herein by reference.

User input devices may also be provided for the host computer including a local mouse and local keyboard . Conventionally the local mouse and local keyboard would be directly connected to the mouse port and keyboard port of the host computer . However for the embodiment shown the local mouse and local keyboard are connected to a mouse port and keyboard port respectively of the management device and provide mouse and keyboard data to the management device through these connections. The management device then passes the mouse data and keyboard data to the respective ports of the host computer .

In addition to providing the pass through of the video signal to the display screen the management device captures screen frame data from the video signal and transfers the screen frame data across the network to the remote computer . The remote computer has a network interface linking the remote computer to the network . The network interface used by the remote computer may be of various forms such as a dial up modem or an Ethernet connection to a LAN. Various protocols of data transfer may be utilized between the management device and the remote computer such as the TCP IP protocol ordinarily used via the Internet.

The remote computer implements an application such as a dedicated application or plug in executing within a general purpose browser window such as a web browser for receiving the screen frame data through the network interface and providing a display on the display screen . The display includes the screen frame produced by the host computer that corresponds to the screen frame data transferred by the management device . Typically the remote computer includes a video adapter that has a video output connected to the display screen to provide the video signals.

To allow the user of the remote computer to fully interact with the host computer user interface devices such as a mouse and keyboard are connected to a mouse port and keyboard port respectively of the remote computer . The user manipulates the mouse and keyboard to interact with the screen frame shown on the display screen which may be formed wholly or in part by the screen frame data received over the network . When the user activity at the remote computer is entered with respect to the screen frame data received from the management device then the processing device of the remote computer transfers the user activity data over the network to the management device that passes it to the mouse port and or keyboard port .

Once the host computer receives the user activity data through the mouse port and or keyboard port the host computer then implements the user activity as if it had occurred directly through the local mouse or local keyboard . When implemented the user activity alters the screen frame to be displayed. Therefore the video signal output by the video connector to the management device provides the screen frames that show the change caused by the user activity at the remote computer such as the mouse pointer moving or typed letters appearing in an electronic document.

The management device transfers the screen frame data showing the user activity to the remote computer where it is then provided to the display screen . Thus the user activity initially performed at the remote computer is represented on the display screen immediately as it is being performed by the user and then once again after updating the video display of the host computer and transferring the updated screen frame back to the remote computer .

As processing and propagation delays decrease within the environment the initial and subsequent display of the same user activity i.e. multiple cursors or mouse pointers on the display screen converge in time so that the user sees only one change. For example moving a mouse pointer within the host computer screen frame shown on the display screen may appear immediately as the user performs the activity and then later reappear such as a ghost movement once the screen frame update is received. However as delays are reduced for example by Giga bit per second network transfer rates or through methods described herein the initial and subsequent mouse pointer movements converge to one movement as perceived by the user of the remote computer . Furthermore as discussed below the host computer may continually determine the location of the mouse pointer or cursor on the remote computer and set the location of the mouse cursor on the host computer to the same location. This also increases the perceived speed of the mouse cursor on the remote computer .

In addition to receiving user input the management device may also provide for additional management with the remote computer by providing a USB connection to a USB port of the host computer . The USB connection allows the management device to emulate USB devices for the host computer such as additional mass storage devices including devices that the host computer may use when booting up. For example the remote computer may provide a floppy CD ROM or hard disk drive that contains a boot up sequence to be used by the host computer . Upon a connection being established over the network between the management device and remote computer the host computer may boot from a media source of the remote computer with the boot up sequence provided through the USB port .

The USB connection from the management device may also allow a local keyboard and mouse and or a keyboard and mouse of the remote computer to be emulated for the host computer . For example the host computer may have only USB ports instead of PS 2 ports and the management device outputs mouse and keyboard signals to the host computer through the USB connection.

To establish the USB connectivity discussed above between the management device and the host computer a USB microcontroller may be included as a part of the management device . The USB microcontroller communicates with the processing device to emulate a USB node for the host computer . Thus a media source of the remote computer may be accessible by the host computer by the USB microcontroller emulating a USB media device for the host computer .

It should be appreciated that the redirection device may comprise a device located internal to the host computer or an external device connected to the external connections of the host computer as shown in . Such a device is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 247 876 entitled Systems and Methods for Establishing Interaction Between A Local computer and a Remote Computer which is assigned to the assignee of the instant patent application and expressly incorporated herein by reference. Another embodiment may comprise a management device that is integrated with the main system board of the host computer or contained on an adapter card located within the host computer . Such a device is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 016 484 entitled Systems and Methods for Capturing Screen Displays From A Host Computing System for Display At A Remote Terminal which is also assigned to the assignee of the instant patent application and expressly incorporated herein. It should be appreciated that the physical and logical connections between the various components are essentially the same regardless of whether the management device is located internal to or external from the host computer . It should also be appreciated that other configurations may be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Referring now to additional details regarding the operation of the host computer the management device and the remote computer will be described. As described briefly above the host computer and the remote computer may comprise standard desktop or server computers. The host computer and the remote computer may include many of the convention components of such computer systems including a central processing unit CPU a volatile memory a mass storage device a display device input devices such as a mouse and keyboard and other conventional peripherals not shown in . The mass storage devices within the host computer and the remote computer and their associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the host computer and the remote computer respectively. Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the host computer and the remote computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the host computer and the remote computer .

A number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage devices and memory of the host computer and the remote computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as one of the family of WINDOWS operating systems or the MS DOS operating system from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. Other operating systems may also be utilized such as the LINUX operating system.

According to various embodiments of the invention the mass storage device of the remote computer may also be operative to store a management plug in . As described briefly above the management plug in may comprise a stand alone program or a plug in operative to execute within a standard web browser. The management plug in is operative to decompress the video data transmitted by the management device and to display the video output of the host computer on the remote computer . The displayed output may include screen displays generated by the application programs a basic input output system BIOS or the operating system of the host computer .

According to various embodiments of the invention the management plug in is also operative to receive user input commands such as mouse cursor movements mouse button selections and keyboard commands generated at the remote computer by a user and to transmit the commands to the management device . The management device then receives the user input commands from the plug in and provides the input commands to the host computer as if the input commands were physically generated by a user at the host computer . In this manner user input commands generated by a user physically located at the remote computer may be passed through to the host computer .

The management device comprises a special purpose hardware device that includes a firmware program stored in a non volatile memory for performing the functionality described herein. The management device also includes many of the conventional components of a special purpose computer system. For instance the management device may include a CPU a volatile and non volatile memory and an input output controller for connection to the host computer and the network as described herein. For instance the management device may include a USB hub controller for connecting to the host computer via the USB communication link . It should be appreciated that other types of communication links may be utilized for enabling communication between the host computer and the management device such as IEEE 1394 USB 2.0 and others.

The management device is also operative to store configuration data . Configuration data defines settings for the management device such as network settings including the network address for the management device and other configuration details. The configuration data is stored in a non volatile memory of the management device . In order to modify the configuration data a configuration application may be utilized on the host computer . As will be described in greater detail below the configuration application issues commands to an application programming interface API that communicates with the management device utilizing SCSI commands issued over the USB connection.

As discussed above the management device may emulate a mass storage device such as the emulated CD ROM device on the USB connection . The emulated CD ROM device may be utilized to redirect the contents of a mass storage device attached to the remote computer to the host computer . The emulated CD ROM device may also be utilized for providing out of band communication between the host computer and the management device . The emulated CD ROM device appears to the host computer as a standard USB CD ROM. Accordingly the operating system executing on the host computer utilizes a standard CD ROM driver provided by the manufacturer of the operating system utilized on the host computer for communicating with the CD ROM device . No custom hardware drivers are necessary.

In order to modify the configuration data the configuration application issues commands to an API configured to issue vendor defined SCSI over USB commands to the emulated CD ROM device . When these commands are received at the management device the firmware receives the commands and examines the commands to determine whether the commands are actually intended for the emulated CD ROM device such as read and write commands. If the commands are actually commands for configuring the management device the firmware modifies the configuration data as requested and issues a return call to the host computer also utilizing SCSI over USB commands. In this manner the host computer can communicate with the management device without the use of a custom hardware driver.

Communication between the host computer and the management device in the manner described above may also be utilized to increase the speed of a user input cursor on the remote computer when the video output of the host computer is redirected. To accomplish this the management plug in periodically transmits to the management device the coordinates of the mouse cursor. In order to retrieve the coordinate information from the management device the host computer executes a mouse booster application . The mouse booster application periodically transmits a request to the management device for the current coordinates of the mouse cursor on the remote computer . This request is transmitted utilizing vendor defined SCSI commands over the USB communication link in the manner described above. When these commands are received at the management device the firmware receives the commands and examines the commands to determine whether the commands are actually intended for the emulated CD ROM device .

If the commands are actually commands requesting the current position of the mouse cursor on the remote computer the firmware does not pass the commands to the emulated CD ROM device but rather responds to the commands with the current location of the coordinates of the mouse cursor on the remote computer . The mouse booster application executing on the host computer then sets the location of the mouse cursor on the host computer to the same position as the coordinates of the mouse cursor on the remote computer . By continually modifying the position of the mouse cursor on the host computer for instance every 50 ms to reflect the current position of the mouse cursor on the remote computer the effective speed of the mouse cursor on the remote computer when interacting with video redirected from the host computer is greatly increased.

Referring now to aspects of a software architecture utilized on the host computer for communicating with the management device will be described. As shown in the mouse booster application and the configuration application communicate with a passthrough API . The passthrough API insulates the application programmer from having to understand the vendor specific SCSI over USB commands utilized for communicating with the management device . Rather the passthrough API provides a higher level set of routines that can be called from an application layer for communicating with the management device .

The passthrough API issues commands to a SCSI communications layer provided by the operating system of the host computer . As described above these commands are vendor defined SCSI commands that are transmitted over a USB transport mechanism. Other types of transport mechanisms may also be utilized to transmit the SCSI commands. In turn the SCSI communications layer communicates with a standard USB driver provided by the manufacturer of the operating system executing on the host computer . Because a standard driver is utilized no additional drivers need to be installed on the host computer to enable communication with the management device .

The USB driver communicates with the management device USB node over a USB cable. Commands received at the USB node can be processed and utilized for configuring the management device or for retrieving the coordinates of the mouse cursor on the remote computer . It should be appreciated that return commands from the management device to the application executing on the host computer may take the reverse path through the USB node the USB driver the SCSI layer and the passthrough API .

Referring now to additional details regarding the connection between the host computer and the management device will be described. As discussed briefly above a communication link is established between the host computer and the management device for transmitting out of band commands. According to the illustrative embodiment described herein the communication link comprises a USB connection . However it should be appreciated that the host computer and the management device may communicate over other types of communication links conforming to different standards. For instance the host computer and the management device may be connected via a FIREWIRE connection or other type of high speed interface known to those skilled in the art.

As also briefly described above in order to communicate with the emulated mass storage device on the USB connection the host computer issues vendor specific SCSI commands . As known to those skilled in the art although the communication link between the host computer and the management device comprises a USB connection commands may be defined by a vendor of the management device and transmitted over the USB connection utilizing the SCSI protocol. When issued these commands are typically ignored by the host computer and passed directly through to the intended device on the USB connection . It should be appreciated however that although SCSI over USB commands are utilized in the present invention other types of commands conforming to other types of communication standards may also be issued over the communication link between the host computer and the management device .

Turning now to a flow diagram will be described illustrating a method for enabling communication between the host computer and the management device. It should be appreciated that the logical operations of the various embodiments of the present invention including those shown in are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computer system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computer system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependant upon the performance requirements of the computer system implementing the invention. Accordingly the logical operations making up the embodiments of the present invention described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. It will be recognized by one skilled in the art that these operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof without deviating from the spirit and scope of the present invention as recited within the claims attached hereto.

Referring now to a routine will be described that illustrates a method for enabling communication between a host computer and a management device . The routine begins at operation where vendor specific commands are defined for use in communication with a management device . In particular according to the embodiments described herein commands are defined for reading and writing data at the management device for setting configuration data on the management device and for retrieving the location of mouse coordinates on the remote computer . It should be appreciated that a vendor of the management device may define other types of commands for performing other types of functions with respect to the management device .

From operation the routine continues to operation . At operation the management device is operative to emulate a mass storage device on the USB connection . In particular according to the various embodiments described herein the emulated device comprises a standard CD ROM device. However other types of devices may also be emulated and utilized provided that the host computer is equipped with a standard driver for communicating with the emulated device. Once the management device has emulated the CD ROM device and made the device available to the host computer the routine continues from operation to operation .

At operation the host computer issues vendor specific SCSI commands over the USB connection to the emulated CD ROM device. In particular as described above the commands may comprise commands for setting the configuration data on the management device or for retrieving the current location of a mouse pointer on the remote computer from the management device . From operation the routine continues to operation .

At operation the transmitted commands are received at the management device . The routine then continues to operation where the management device determines whether the received command is actually intended for the emulated device. In particular the management device determines whether the commands are read or write commands intended for accessing data on the emulated device or whether the commands are vendor specific commands for modifying the configuration data or obtaining the location of the mouse pointer on the remote computer .

From operation the routine continues to operation where the management device determines whether the received command is actually intended for the emulated CD ROM device. If the command is intended for the CD ROM device the routine branches to operation where the received command is passed to the emulated CD ROM device. In this manner the host computer can access the contents of the mass storage device redirected from the remote computer to the management device in the manner described above. From operation the routine continues to operation .

If at operation the management device determines that the received command is not intended for the CD ROM device the routine continues to operation . At operation the management device determines whether the received command comprises a vendor specific command for setting the configuration data . If the command is intended to set the configuration data the routine branches to operation where the firmware program sets the configuration data in the manner described in the received commands. The routine then continues to operation .

If at operation the management device determines that the received command is not a command to configure the management device the routine continues to operation . At operation the management device determines whether the received command comprises a vendor specific command for receiving the coordinates of the mouse cursor on the remote computer . If the command is for retrieving the mouse cursor coordinates the routine branches to operation . At operation the management device returns the current position of the mouse cursor on the remote computer to the house computer . The routine then continues from operation to operation .

If at operation the management device determines that the received commands are not vendor specific commands for requesting the current position of the mouse cursor the routine continues to operation . At operation other types of commands issued by the host computer to the management device may be processed. The routine then continues from operation to operation where it ends.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that the various embodiments of the invention provide methods and systems for enabling communication with a computer management device. The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

