---

title: Dynamic gazetteers for entity recognition and fact association
abstract: An entity recognition model is trained to use gazetteers to recognize entities referenced in documents. When a document associated with a user is received for recognizing entities referenced therein, a gazetteer is selected based on user contexts associated with the user. The document is analyzed using the gazetteer according to the entity recognition model to recognize an entity referenced therein. Additional facts associated with the recognized entities and actions applicable to the recognized entities are provided to enable the user to perform the applicable actions against the recognized entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429099&OS=08429099&RS=08429099
owner: ARO, Inc.
number: 08429099
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101014
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 512 752 filed Jul. 30 2009 entitled Social Network Model For Semantic Processing which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to the field of information recognition in particular to recognizing entities referenced in text.

Electronic content often includes references to related entities such as people organizations and locations. It is beneficial to recognize the referenced entities because such recognition can lead to an enhanced viewer experience. For example a viewer of the electronic content can be given the option of performing certain applicable actions against a recognized entity e.g. visiting the homepage of a recognized organization . In addition the electronic content can be indexed according the entities recognized therein to enhance subsequent data retrieval for the recognized entities.

Certain entities are hard to recognize due to factors such as recency and uncommonness. Examples of such entities include people with uncommon names people that have recently become public figures and small cities. Therefore there is a need for a way to boost the ability to recognize entities referenced in electronic content.

Embodiments of the invention recognize entities referenced in documents. According to one aspect a document associated with a user is received for recognizing entities referenced therein. An entity recognition engine selects a gazetteer based on user contexts associated with the user and analyzes the document using the gazetteer to recognize an entity referenced therein. Additional facts associated with the recognized entities and actions applicable to the recognized entities are provided to enable the user to perform the applicable actions against the recognized entity.

According to another aspect the entity recognition model is trained to use gazetteers to recognize entities referenced in a training corpus. The gazetteers are subsequently modified. The entity recognition model can use the subsequently modified gazetteers to recognize entity references without being retrained.

One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description describe certain embodiments by way of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein. Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality.

In one embodiment data flowing to and from the user device passes through the server . For ease of reference the term document is used herein to refer to a discrete collection of data such as a file an email a web page a message an appointment request or any other type of electronic document. The server analyzes the document flowing to and from the user device in order to recognize entities referenced therein. The server selects gazetteers based on user contexts and user choices and uses the selected gazetteers to recognize the entity references. Because the gazetteers selected for a user may be developed using the user s personal data or otherwise tailored to recognize entities relevant to the user the server may recognize entities with unusual names or are otherwise hard to recognize. The server passes information also called facts associated with the entities to the user device so that the user device can enable the user to perform actions applicable to the recognized entities.

In various embodiments the user device may be any device capable of communicating over the network . Examples of a user device include a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone such as a smart phone a laptop a desktop computer and a computer with limited external user interfaces such as a television set top box or in store computer kiosk . In one embodiment the user device is a mobile device that offers broad functionality. For example the mobile device may send and receive SMS messages and emails offer web access provide GPS functionality manage contact information track calendar appointments and manage and communicate other types of documents.

The user device has a graphical user interface GUI that allows a user to access and interact with data stored on the user device and data received from the server to make use of the device s functionality. The GUI allows the user to select information for example by clicking on it touching it highlighting it with a cursor or any other method of selecting a portion of the displayed information. Once the user selects an entity reference the GUI makes available actions that the user may perform against the entity being referenced. For example the GUI may display a node menu containing the actions. The node menu includes an anchor node surrounding the entity reference with edges radiating outward and connecting to nodes representing the actions. For example assume the user is using the user device to view an email that contains an acquaintance s name. The GUI displays the acquaintance s name in a manner different from surrounding text e.g. underlined or highlighted to indicate that the name references an entity in this case the acquaintance. If the user selects the acquaintance s name the GUI displays a node menu providing the user with applicable actions such as calling emailing the acquaintance.

In addition to the GUI the user device includes various applications that support the functionality of the user device . For example the user device may include telephone email calendar contact manager browser GPS word processing spreadsheet and or other business or personal applications . Users of the user device may create receive send access store or otherwise interact with documents through the applications .

The user device also includes a server interaction module to manage the communications between the server and the user device . Specifically the server interaction module receives documents sent to the user device from the server including in one embodiment metadata identifying entities recognized therein and associated facts. The server interaction module also receives data to be sent to the server from the user device for example outbound emails and text messages.

The storage device is a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard drive compact disk read only memory CD ROM DVD or a solid state memory device. The memory holds instructions and data used by the processor . The pointing device is a mouse track ball or other type of pointing device and is used in combination with the keyboard to input data into the computer . The graphics adapter displays images and other information on the display . The network adapter couples the computer to one or more computer networks.

The computer is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing functionality described herein. As used herein the term module or engine model refers to computer program logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules are stored on the storage device loaded into the memory and executed by the processor .

The types of computers used by the entities of can vary depending upon the embodiment and the processing power required by the entity. For example one or more of the servers might comprise multiple blade servers working together to provide the functionality described herein. As another example the user device might comprise a smartphone with limited processing power. The computers can lack some of the components described above such as keyboards graphics adapters and displays . In addition one or more of the servers can run in a single computer or multiple computers communicating with each other through a network such as a server farm.

The gazetteer database stores a collection of gazetteers used by the server to recognize entity references in documents. A gazetteer is a structured collection of data developed for recognizing entity references in documents. An entity is a thing which has a distinct existence as an individual unit such as a person an organization or a location for example. Entities are categorized into different entity types such as people types organization types and location types. An entity type is associated with a schema which specifies a plurality of labeled facts associated with entities of the entity type. A fact can be a referencing fact also called a name or an alias that can be used to reference the associated entity or a non referencing fact that typically is not used to reference the associated entity. For example a person can be associated with referencing facts such as a first name a last name a nickname and an alias and non referencing facts such as a phone number an employer and a Uniform Resource Locator URL of a personal homepage. In one embodiment each entity in a gazetteer may be associated with multiple aliases which collectively define a list of ways the entity may be referred to in text. These aliases may be provided by for example the entities themselves by volunteers contributing information to a collection by workers paid to discover or suggest aliases or by an automated process. In one embodiment aliases may additionally be generated using a set of rules. For example rules for generating organization aliases may specify that common suffixes such as bar and grill may be dropped from organization names to create aliases.

A fact may include one or more references to other entities of the same entity type or different entity types. For example a movie entity may be associated with a fact labeled director that references the director of that movie. A schema may also define a set of actions applicable to the specified facts of the associated entity type. For example an action applicable to a fact labeled stock symbol is looking up the stock price. Other example actions include calling e.g. for a fact labeled telephone number emailing e.g. for a fact labeled email address and sending an SMS message e.g. for a fact labeled mobile telephone number . Schemas can be provided by authoritative external sources or as described in further detail below specified in gazetteers.

An action can be defined as a URL e.g. a URL directing to the appropriate web server providing the corresponding service and including the appropriate parameters . Alternatively or additionally an action can be specified using features such as the intent feature provided in platforms such as the Google Android platform that will invoke an application running on the platform to perform the specified intent. Alternatively or additionally an action can be specified as an abstract representation that is bound to a concrete client specific implementation such as URLs intents API calls to external services or any arbitrary code on the rendering device e.g. the user device . If a schema defines a fact relating to other entities a relate to action can be defined in the schema to explore the related entities. For example the schema for movie type entities may relate movies to actors actresses in the movies through a fact labeled actors actresses and define a relate to action for users to access information about the related actors actresses of a movie.

Facts associated with an entity are stored together and collectively called an entity model. For example entity models for major organizations e.g. governments corporations and nongovernmental organizations NGOs include facts such as alternate names acronym expansion subsidiary companies official mailing addresses and web sites Wikipedia page URLs stock exchange ticker symbols and areas of industry. Facts in the entity models can be provided by authoritative external sources extracted from user data or as described in further detail below specified in gazetteers. Entity models for entities of a specific entity type are stored together e.g. in one or more database tables .

A gazetteer includes a list of terms or words phrases commonly used in a referencing fact of a specific entity type and is used for recognizing instances of the referencing fact in documents. For example a common last name gazetteer includes a list of common last names. The list of terms in a gazetteer is also called the reference list of that gazetteer. The presence of a particular term in a reference list of a gazetteer serves as an indicator that the term references an entity of the associated entity type. A reference list may include additional information supplemental to the terms. For example the reference list of the common last name gazetteer may include weights reflective of the frequency the included last names occur in the population. A gazetteer may also include a collection of graphic or GUI elements for presenting entities recognized using the gazetteer. These graphic elements may include icon images for entity types and or actions defined.

A gazetteer may include a set of rules called filter rules specifying how to recognize entities using the reference list to reduce false positive recognitions. For example a filter rule may specify that reference names in the reference list consisting of a single common word e.g. apple should be ignored unless adjacent to appropriate context specific words e.g. inc. incorporated LLC . Other example context specific terms in filter rules include common prefixes indicative of people e.g. Mr. Mrs. Ms. etc. . Other filter rules may require that the name be capitalized in order to count as a match e.g. Will Park might count as a person while will park would not . Yet other additional or alternative context specific filter rules might add additional document contexts that would have to be satisfied for the entity reference to be recognized such as requiring a set of terms to completely or partially co occur in the target document. Still other filter rules may filter out reference names composed of common words or phrases e.g. disallowing an organization called Of The .

In one embodiment a gazetteer may specify a schema or a portion of the schema for the associated entity type. The schema may specify actions applicable to the referencing fact the gazetteer is designed to recognize as well as other facts specified in the schema. For example the schema in a gazetteer for recognizing disease names may specify an action of identifying corresponding treatments medications the schema in a gazetteer for recognizing local restaurant names may specify actions such as calling mapping and making a reservation the schema in a gazetteer for recognizing people s last names may specify actions such as calling emailing and sending an SMS message and the schema in a gazetteer for recognizing movie names may specify actions such as displaying show times and purchasing tickets.

In one embodiment a gazetteer may include or provide reference to facts associated with entities referenced in the reference list. For example a gazetteer for names of the fifty states in the U.S. may include facts such as the state capitals populations and or governors. As another example a local restaurant name gazetteer may include facts such as the phone numbers street addresses and business hours. These facts can be used to enable actions against the entities referenced in the reference list making a phone call mapping an address performing a general or domain specific search to name a few. The facts can also be used to populate the corresponding entity models. Because a gazetteer can specify a schema for an entity type and provide related facts a gazetteer can define a new entity type or augment an existing entity type with additional facts actions for entities of that type. A gazetteer can be expressed in many different possible representations such as for example an XML data structure a JSON data structure or a database table.

A gazetteer may be developed to target a specific user user specific gazetteer or a specific set of users to boost the ability to recognize entities for that specific user s . For example a user specific gazetteer for recognizing people names can be created for each user containing names of people found in that user s own personal data including contacts and past emails to or from the user. The user specific gazetteers may also include user specific facts associated with the entities referenced in the reference lists. For example the user specific people name gazetteer may include the full names addresses and telephone numbers of people from contacts stored by a contacts manager application of the user device or from the user s social network model. The social network model is a description of the relationships between entities found in the user s data.

Other specific purpose gazetteers can be provided for recognizing entities related to some specific purpose such as a gazetteer for recognizing U.S. movies a gazetteer for recognizing English baseball terms and a gazetteer for recognizing Spanish medical terms. These specific purpose gazetteers can be developed by external sources such as experts in the field a business that works in that domain a community of amateurs or an individual user. The user specific gazetteers and specific purpose gazetteers boost the ability to recognize entities for specific user s by providing reference lists tailored to recognize entities of special interest to the user s even if such entities have unusual names absent in standard lists of common names unusual spelling grammar or are otherwise insufficient for recognition. In addition such gazetteers also beneficially provide entity facts that enable the user s to perform applicable actions to the recognized entities.

The entity recognition engine recognizes entities referenced in documents flowing to and from the user device by analyzing text in the documents using gazetteers according to an entity recognition model. As shown the entity recognition engine includes a model training module and a gazetteer selection module .

The model training module trains the entity recognition model to effectively use gazetteers to recognize entity references in an extensive general training corpus including emails web pages and other types of documents. The documents in the training corpus are first analyzed to detect presence of terms in reference lists of gazetteers along with other features such as whether the detected terms are capitalized and the preceding following word. The model training module trains the entity recognition model to recognize entity references in documents in the training corpus based on the features. Some of the documents in the general training corpus have been manually labeled to identify entity references therein and serve as ground truth for the model training module . During the training process the entity recognition model learns the relative importance and effectiveness of various features in recognizing entity references in the general training corpus. Various techniques may be used by the model training module to train the entity recognition model such as decision tree induction algorithms. The model training module may train multiple models for different purposes e.g. one model optimized for efficiency while another model optimized for accuracy .

Once trained the entity recognition model is used by the entity recognition engine to recognize entity references in documents outside the training corpus. The gazetteers used by the entity recognition model can be modified to include content that is up to date or tailored to recognize a specific set of entities e.g. people or organizations from a user s contacts . As a result the entity recognition model can use the modified gazetteers as opposed to the original gazetteers used in the training process to recognize entities of special interest to a user even if such entities have unusual names absent in standard lists of common names unusual spelling grammar or are otherwise insufficient for recognition.

To fully utilize gazetteers stored in the gazetteer database to boost the ability of entity recognition the gazetteer selection module dynamically selects gazetteers based on real time user contexts for the entity recognition model to recognize entities. For example when selecting gazetteers the gazetteer selection module takes into consideration one or more of the following contexts geographic location contexts social contexts and organization contexts. In one embodiment gazetteers stored in the gazetteer database are organized by context and the gazetteer selection module selects gazetteers from the gazetteer database based on contexts.

Regarding the geographic location contexts the gazetteer selection module selects gazetteers associated with geographic locations that are relevant to the user document such as the location of the user device a location specified by the user and a location associated with the underlying document e.g. an address appearing in the document . An example of a gazetteer associated with a geographic location is a gazetteer for recognizing restaurants or other businesses around that location.

Regarding the social contexts the gazetteer selection module selects gazetteers based on social contexts that are specific to the user e.g. user specific gazetteers as well as non user specific social contexts e.g. specific purpose gazetteers . For example the gazetteer selection module selects a user specific gazetteer developed to recognize people names specific to the user e.g. based on the user s social network model and or people with which the user has recently communicated . The gazetteer selection module also selects gazetteers developed for entities associated with the user such as people names specific to an employer of the user or other organizations the user belongs to .

Regarding the organization contexts the gazetteer selection module selects gazetteers based on organizations related to the user. For example the gazetteer selection module recognizes organizations e.g. companies NGOs based on the related geographic locations and or the user s affiliations e.g. as identified in the user s social network model contacts message signature blocks . The gazetteer selection module relates organizations with geographic locations using information provided by third party sources.

In addition to selecting gazetteers based on user contexts the gazetteer selection module may also select other gazetteers such as general gazetteers and gazetteers explicitly selected by the user. General gazetteers include common entity names such as common first last names common baby names famous places organizations countries states cities to name a few. In case more than one selected gazetteers are intended to recognizing a same entity type the gazetteer selection module dynamically merges them into a single gazetteer such that each selected gazetteer is oriented around a specific entity type.

The entity recognition engine analyzes a user document using the selected gazetteers according to the entity recognition model to recognize entities referenced therein. As described above a gazetteer may include a set of filter rules designed to reduce false positive entity recognitions. In addition to applying the filter rules of the selected gazetteers the entity recognition engine may also apply a set of supplemental filter rules to further reduce false positive entity recognitions. For example if a gazetteer provided by a third party is for recognizing movie titles the supplemental filter rules may prevent the gazetteer from recognizing every instance of common words that happen to be movie titles e.g. THEM or other single or two word movie titles or require the gazetteer to only match under certain conditions e.g. movie title lengths must exceed 3 words or the phrases movie and science fiction appear in the same document .

The entity recognition engine detects entity references in a document by parsing the document for the presence of terms in the reference lists of the selected gazetteers. The presence of a term in a reference list in the document is a feature considered in the entity recognition model for recognizing references to entities. The entity recognition engine determines the type of the referenced entity based on the entity schema associated with the gazetteer including the detected entity reference and identifies the entity model associated with the referenced entity e.g. by matching with entity models .

Once the entity recognition engine successfully recognizes an entity referenced in a document it may store the recognized entity reference and entity type in a data storage not shown and or communicate it to the user device through the device interaction module of the server . The entity recognition engine may also retrieve additional data related to the recognized entity from sources such as the gazetteer and the entity model and augment the document using such additional data e.g. by tagging the referencing term or provide the additional data to the user device . Examples of the additional data include applicable actions and facts associated with the recognized entity enabling the applicable actions. The recognized entity reference entity type and additional data are collectively referred to as the metadata. As a result of receiving the metadata the user device or the GUI provides the user with convenient options of applying the applicable actions against the entity referenced in the document. Additionally the entity recognition engine may extract information about the recognized entity from the document and build or modify the social network model of the user using such information. Additional information for building the social network model using extracted entity information can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 512 752 filed Jul. 30 2009 entitled Social Network Model For Semantic Processing which has been incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The index module indexes the data according to the entities recognized by the entity recognition engine . In cases where a document contains more than one recognized entity the document may be indexed under each recognized entity. The index module may store the results of the indexing in a data store not shown .

The device interaction module manages the communications between the server and the user device . Specifically the device interaction module receives documents from locations such as the web server the message server or other locations on the network to be sent to the user device . In one embodiment the device interaction module also receives metadata identifying recognized entities referenced in the documents from the entity recognition engine . The device interaction module also receives data from the user device for subsequent processing by the server .

The gazetteer management interface provides an interface e.g. an application programming interface API for interested third parties to create and manage gazetteers. A third party e.g. a person an organization can create maintain and or publish gazetteers by communicating with the server through the interface. For example an organization that provides information about movies may provide a gazetteer designed to recognize movie names and provide related facts e.g. actor actress director names show times ticket information through the interface for the entity recognition engine to recognize movie names in users documents. By allowing third parties to create maintain and publish gazetteers that may be dynamically updated and used to recognize entity references and provide associated facts the gazetteer management interface promotes a development community for enhancing the ability to correctly recognize more specialized entities for users. For example organizations and communities can create or customize gazetteers to recognize entities that are specific to them and share such gazetteers among their members or the public. Because the entity recognition model can use updated or new gazetteers without being retrained such updated or new gazetteers can be immediately applied to recognize entities and provide associated facts to users.

Users can also explicitly select a library of gazetteers to be applied to their documents through the gazetteer management interface . For example if a user is interested in movies and information about a particular medical field that user may select gazetteers developed to recognize movie names or actors actresses developers and terms in that medical field. As a result the entity recognition engine will use these gazetteers among other gazetteers selected by the gazetteer selection module to recognize entity references for the user.

In one embodiment users are required to setup user accounts e.g. with the server . As a part of the user s account management a list of gazetteers is provided for the user to choose from. Gazetteer providers may submit gazetteers or references to gazetteers to the server for inclusion in the list of gazetteers. In another embodiment users can provide a reference e.g. the URL of a data file containing the gazetteer data to any publicly available gazetteer in order to have that gazetteer applied to the users data as long as the gazetteer is published in a supported format. Gazetteer providers may also selectively avail their gazetteers only to certain users groups of users or users with certain access in which case a user would have to provide his security credentials in order to add the gazetteer to his account. A gazetteer may be optionally cryptographically signed the presence of an authorized cryptographic signature may enable or disable specific gazetteer features e.g. supplemental facts . A gazetteer may also require a user to establish a secured user authentication before using or selecting the gazetteer.

The gazetteer update module updates contents of gazetteers e.g. reference lists associated facts entity schemas as specified by the gazetteers or their developers. Due to different time sensitiveness of different types of entities gazetteers for different entity types have different update frequencies. For entities that rarely change such as the fifty states in the U.S. gazetteers designed to recognize such entities can be configured to be rarely updated only updated upon demand or static i.e. no update . For entities with high time sensitiveness such as recent celebrities politicians and Fortune companies associated gazetteers can be configured to be updated frequently e.g. daily or weekly . For entities with rapid dynamics such as people with active interactions with a user associated gazetteers can be configured to be updated with even higher frequency e.g. every minute or constantly. By updating contents of the gazetteers the updated gazetteers can be used to recognize new entities such as current public figures and to provide updated facts. Because the entity recognition model can use updated gazetteers at runtime without having to be retrained the updated gazetteer content can immediately come into effect in recognizing entity references.

The updated content can be pushed to or pulled by the gazetteer update module using techniques such as publishing uploading and importing. A gazetteer may include parameters that specify the timing e.g. frequency and manner e.g. source of the updated content update content are pushed to or pull by the hosting server that the gazetteer is to be updated. A gazetteer or the gazetteer developer may also specify a set of update rules for the gazetteer update module to update the gazetteer s content. For example a user specific people name gazetteer may specify that people names in email headers of new emails be added to the reference list in order to capture people type entities not in the user s contacts.

In step a user document is received for recognizing entities referenced therein. For example the server may receive an email from a message server via the network destined for a user device .

In step a set of gazetteers are selected based on user contexts. For example the server may determine a device location of the user device and select gazetteers related to that location. The server may also select user specific gazetteers for the user and gazetteers related to organizations the user is affiliated with. The server also selects some general gazetteers and gazetteers selected by the user. The selected gazetteers may be updated at runtime and the updated gazetteer content is used to recognize entity references.

In step the server analyzes the user document using the selected gazetteers according to the entity recognition model to recognize entities referenced in the user document. The server may also apply filter rules while using the selected gazetteers. The server also determines the entity types for the recognized entity references.

In step the server identifies known entities associated with the recognized entity references e.g. by matching with entity models and retrieves facts associated with the entity and applicable actions from sources such as the entity model and a gazetteer including the entity reference.

In step metadata associated with the recognized entity e.g. the entity reference entity type applicable actions associated facts are sent to the user device to enable the user to perform the applicable actions against the recognized entity on the user device .

In one embodiment the entity recognition occurs on the user device instead of or in addition to the server . For example a light weight version of an entity recognition engine may be installed in the user device as a web browser plug in. The plug in recognizes entities referenced in web pages displayed on the web browser and provides applicable actions against the recognized entity references.

In one embodiment the referencing lists of gazetteers can also be used as white lists of entity names to validate the entity references identified by the entity recognition engine.

In one embodiment the referencing list of a gazetteer can be used as an exact list of strings to be extracted as entity references rather than as simply one feature in a trained entity recognition model. In this embodiment any string found in text matching a reference name in a gazetteer and passing the associated filter rules for the gazetteer would be marked as a reference to an entity of the corresponding type with the corresponding facts.

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithmic processes or operations. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs comprising instructions for execution by a processor or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of functional operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the disclosure. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for recognizing an entity referenced in a document using dynamically updated and or personalized gazetteers. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope as defined in the appended claims.

