---

title: Delivery edge profile aggregation
abstract: A system and method for aggregating subscriber information at a delivery edge is disclosed. The method comprises interfacing a user profile aggregation device (UPAD) at a subscriber location with at least one subscriber database in each of a wired network core and a wireless network core. The wired network core and the wireless network core are operated by a Multi-System network Operator. Profile information can be aggregated at the UPAD about the subscriber from at least one database in the wired network core and the wireless network core. The subscriber's aggregated profile information can be communicated to the MSO.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09155088&OS=09155088&RS=09155088
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09155088
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101222
---
Priority of U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 330 837 filed on May 3 2010 is claimed which is herein incorporated by reference.

Multi System network Operators MSO such as AT T and Verizon offer comprehensive wired and wireless connectivity service packages to users. Their service bundles typically include wired services comprising a Voice over Internet Protocol VOIP or Digital Subscriber Line DSL connection for a home phone line and internet connection as well as television offerings provided through a cable or satellite connection. They often also bundle a wireless plan for wireless communication for voice and data through a wireless network. The bundled services are typically packaged to present attractive options to different target subscriber groups.

The challenge for MSOs in providing bundled services is one of revenue sustenance. MSOs are often compelled to continually expand the number of services that are offered for a fixed price to grow the number of subscribers. In order to increase revenue MSOs look for ways to add value to their connectivity services to increase their share of the market.

One way to add value is to provide service customization and loyalty programs for customers. These programs can be most effective when the MSO has a good understanding of each client. However MSOs are often not able to deploy data mining technologies that enable them to gain a good understanding of their clients since all of the information is not located in a single repository for the different services provided in a user s bundle. MSO subscriber information is often spread across different elements on the network in multiple core network domains. While each domain has a view of the subscriber that is specific to its function on the network such as billing network access and so forth the disparate information makes it difficult to obtain a complete picture of a user.

Building out a common meta repository that presents a homogenous view of subscribers across the different connectivity services offered is a multiyear effort that MSOs have been working on. This effort is complicated by the fact that there are multitudes of equipment vendors with differing interface protocols combined with the upgrade costs of legacy infrastructures. MSO initiatives are underway at standards organizations such as the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP to address requirements for a homogenous user data repository UDR .

Despite the MSO s efforts to address the fragmentation of data it is evident that it will take several years before the MSO s various network cores can evolve to provide the desired level of inter connectivity needed to gain a desired understanding of a subscriber of bundled services.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. The following definitions are provided for clarity of the overview and embodiments described below.

A Multi System network Operator MSO can provide comprehensive wired and wireless connectivity service packages to subscribers. The service bundles typically include wired services comprising a Voice over Internet Protocol VOIP or Digital Subscriber Line DSL connection for a home phone line and internet connection as well as television offerings provided through a cable fiber optic or satellite connection. The MSO often also bundles a wireless plan for wireless communication for voice and data through a wireless network. The wireless plan has traditionally provided wireless voice access. However a broad range of devices including laptop computers tablet computers hand held computing devices and smart phones now use data connections to provide email internet connectivity and audiovisual entertainment such as digital television.

The bundled services are typically packaged to present attractive options to different target subscriber groups. In order to continue to increase in market share the MSO often adds more and more services to a bundled service while often maintaining the same price. This can drive down the MSO s profits over an extended period.

One way to add value is to provide service customization and loyalty programs for customers. These programs can be most effective when the MSO has a good understanding of each client. However MSOs are often not able to deploy data mining technologies that enable them to gain a good understanding of their clients since all of the information is not located in a single repository for the different services provided in a user s bundle. MSO subscriber information is often spread across different elements on the network in multiple core network domains. While each domain has a view of the subscriber that is specific to its function on the network such as billing network access and so forth the disparate information makes it difficult to obtain a complete picture of a user at the MSO.

The broad array of different services provided in a typical bundle results in different equipment used in each different service that is provided by a multitude of different equipment vendors with differing interface protocols. Building out a common meta repository that presents a homogenous view of subscribers across the different connectivity services offered is a multi year effort that MSOs have been working on. The challenges of creating interoperable standards combined with the costs of upgrading legacy infrastructures means that it is likely that it will be several years before the systems will be in place to address the data fragmentation at the MSO.

While the databases and core networks operated by an MSO may be separated and non interoperable at the MSO there is one location where substantially all of the services offered by the MSO are available. At the service delivery edge a device can be configured to communicate to and interoperate with the various databases in the multiple cores. The service delivery edge located at or near the subscriber s residence building or place of business is a location where each service offered by the MSO is actively received. A delivery edge profile aggregation system can be configured to communicate with the desired databases in the MSO s different network cores thereby enabling the desired information to be collected.

In addition the delivery edge profile aggregation system can be configured to provide information from one network core to another network core thereby enabling communication between the network cores about a selected subscriber. The ability to transfer information between the network cores can significantly enhance the services provided by the MSO to a subscriber.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a delivery edge profile aggregation system is disclosed. Use of the delivery edge profile aggregation system can overcome the data fragmentation caused by the lack of interoperable standards in the wide array of different types of equipment used to provide bundled services such as wired telephony cable or satellite television wired internet services and wireless connectivity for devices such as cell phones laptops and mobile computing devices. Additional devices such as embedded computers in vehicles and appliances can also be integrated with the delivery edge profile aggregation system. Since the system is located at the delivery edge the system can have both an external facing view of the MSO s wired and wireless core networks and web service applications as well as an internal facing view of the consumer s electronic devices content consumption behavior and consumption ambience.

The ability to obtain both an external facing view and an internal facing view enables the edge profile aggregation system to build a more complete profile of a user consumer for the MSO. The profile can then be used by the MSO to add value to their connectivity services by providing their customers with service customization and loyalty programs based on a more complete picture of the consumer s uses of the bundled services as well as the consumer s behavior and consumption history. This information can be obtained from the delivery edge profile aggregation system.

The delivery edge profile aggregation system can be used to collect such information for thousands of users of bundled systems. This enables the MSO to deploy data mining technologies for subscriber information that is typically spread across several different elements of the MSO s network. By aggregating the information from a large composite of users the MSO can obtain knowledge of subscribers typical behaviors. The collected information can then be analyzed to determine potentially underserved subscribers.

Using the information provided from the delivery edge profile aggregation system an MSO can add value by offering service customization and loyalty programs to their subscribers. For instance the MSO may make buy suggestions to a customer based on what other users of similar preferences are buying. The MSO may also offer loyalty programs such as business class travel that is attached to spend thresholds . The service customization and loyalty programs can provide an MSO with the ability to maintain their client base in a very competitive environment.

A number of profile abstractions listed in rows can be obtained from information in the databases . The table shows which databases can be used to gather information for selected profile abstractions. For instance the customer s home demographic can be obtained from information in a subscriber database. The home demographic is the home location of the subscriber. A social demographic can also be obtained from the subscriber database. The social demographic is derived from the number of family members on the subscriber s wireless phone plan. The social demographic can also include information about the subscriber s list of friends and contacts. For instance an MSO may have a policy that allows a subscriber to talk with selected friends and family at a reduced or free rate. This list can be used to compile a social demographic.

An economic demographic can be derived from information in the subscriber database service plan and service profile. The economic demographic can be derived from the number of services subscribed to the type of service plan the monthly bills of the subscriber and so forth.

An online service demographic can be compiled from information in the service profile database. The information can be derived from the number of services that are subscribed to the number of services that are subscribed at a given time and so forth.

A user personal preferences demographic can be constructed from information contained in an MSO s service plan database service profile database and user preferences database. The personal preferences demographic can be derived from the number of services subscribed to the service plan and the number of services active at a given time. This information can be used to describe the personal traits of the user.

A device demographic can be obtained from information in the subscriber database and a mobile station registration database. The device demographic is derived from the number of devices that are registered by the user. This information can be used to determine whether the subscriber is device savvy. For instance information can be obtained regarding the frequency of hardware updates performed by a subscriber such as performing a cell phone update every 6 months or once every 3 years. A subscriber that updates more frequently can be provided with more information regarding state of the art cell phones. A subscriber that does not upgrade frequently may receive less information.

A mobility demographic can be constructed from information available in the MSO s mobile station registration database and a subscriber location database. The mobility demographic information can be derived from the subscriber s frequency of location updates. This information can be used to determine the subscriber s frequency of travel. This information may be used to offer different services based on the frequency of travel and locations of travel.

The demographics listed in the preceding paragraphs are provided as examples only and are not intended to be limiting. Other types of demographic information can be obtained as well from the various subscriber databases available in the different cores at the MSO.

The wired and wireless services offered in a service bundle are affiliated with the MSO. In one embodiment the MSO may be solely owned and controlled by the MSO. Alternatively the wired and wireless services may be contracted by the MSO and owned by separate companies. For instance the MSO may offer a satellite television subscription provided by a satellite television company an internet connection provided by an internet company and wireless services provided by a separate wireless services provider.

The UPAD can comprise any type of device that is capable of communicating with the wired wireless and web services offered by the MSO. The wired wireless and web services can be referred to as W3 services. For instance the UPAD may be a laptop that can communicate with subscriber databases in the MSO s wired network core via a wired connection such as through a wired Ethernet connection to the wired network core of the MSO. Alternatively the wired connection can include a short range wireless connection not shown such as an Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.11 wireless connection to a modem that is then connected to the wired core of the MSO through a wired connection . Other types of short range communications standards such as Zigbee Bluetooth Ultra Wideband UWB and so forth may be used to connect with the wired network core as well. The UPAD may also be hosted within a modem a residential gateway or another type of electronic device located at the delivery edge that is capable of communicating with the wired wireless and web services offered by the MSO.

The wired network core can include databases such as the Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA database on a server such as an AAA server. As denoted by the database title this database can be used in authenticating a subscriber through an authentication process such as password control. The server can provide the means for authorization of a subscriber onto the MSO s wired network core. Authorization can be determined based on selected restrictions. For example time of day restrictions physical location restrictions or restrictions against multiple access by the same entity user may be provided.

The wired network core can also provide databases used in accounting. The accounting database can be used to track the subscriber s accesses to the wired network core . For instance the subscriber s identity the type of service delivered the start and stop time of the service s delivery can be recorded in the accounting database in the wired core. Data from this database can be used for management planning billing and so forth.

The wired network core can also include one or more databases operating on a policy server. The policy server such as a Policy Charging and Rules Function PCRF server is a node that can be configured to designate in real time to determine policy rules in a multimedia network. The PCRF server can aggregate information to and from the wired network core operational support systems and other sources within the wired network core such as portals . The information may be aggregated in real time thereby supporting the creation of rules and then automatically making intelligent policy decisions for each subscriber that is active on the network. For instance the PCRF server can configure the subscriber for on demand services for television or internet. When a subscriber wants to order a show or selects a desired television channel a database on the PCRF server can determine whether the subscriber is authorized to view the selected channel in real time.

The wired network core can also include a billing and settlement database. The billing and settlement can be configured to work with the AAA server and PCRF server to bill a subscriber based on the subscriber s uses of the MSO s services in the wired network core. For instance if a pay per view movie is ordered the PCRF server can communicate the cost of the movie to the billing and settlement database to enable the subscriber to be charged.

The wireless network core has similarly named servers and databases including the AAA server the PCRF server and a mobility server configured to track a subscriber s wireless mobility between base stations. The servers and databases in the wireless network core are typically not configured to communicate with the servers and databases in the wired network core . For instance the PCRF server in the wireless network core can include information such as which base stations a mobile station user equipment can access the bandwidth that the mobile station can access the quality of service and so forth. In contrast in the wired network core there are no base stations and bandwidth may be more fixed than in a wireless network. Thus the differences between the information contained in the databases in the wireless network core and the wired network core often proscribe the databases in the wired and wireless cores from communicating.

The UPAD can also be configured to connect with the wireless network core via a wired or wireless connection . The wireless connection can be established using a wireless standard such as the IEEE 802.16 standard the third generation partnership project 3GPP standard or another wireless standard that is operable to enable the UPAD to communicate with the W3 services.

The connection between the wired network core and the UPAD and the connection between the UPAD and the wireless network core can be configured to provide a trusted interface that enables the UPAD to access the various networks that have been discussed in each network core to aggregate information from each network core.

For instance the connections may be formed using level three L3 interfaces based on protocols such as the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . LDAP is an application protocol for querying and modifying data of directory services implemented in networks such as Internet Protocol IP networks. Similarly SOAP is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information in the implementation of Web Services in computer networks. A markup language such as the eXtensible Markup Language XML can be used in SOAP for message negotiation and transmission.

The UPAD can include a services abstraction layer to implement multiple interfaces to provide a unified decision point to a policy engine. The services abstraction layer can form a layer above the level three interfaces used to connect the UPAD with the W3 services . The services abstraction layer enables the UPAD to collect desired information from each of the multiple network cores in communication with the bundled services . In addition the services abstraction layer enables information from a database in one network core to be communicated to a database in a separate network core. For instance information from a PCRF database in the wired network core can be communicated to a PCRF database in the wireless network core through the services abstraction layer in the UPAD . This will be discussed more fully below.

The layer three interfaces enable the UPAD to provide external facing data visibility with the databases in the MSO s wired and wireless core networks. In addition the UPAD can also provide internal data visibility with various subscriber devices that are in communication with the MSO through the W3 services . For instance the UPAD can be configured to have wireless device communication with various wireless devices such as a laptop a tablet computer a smart phone and so forth. The UPAD can also be configured to have wired device communication with wired devices that are connected with the MSO s services such as a television a wired telephone a laptop a modem or residential gateway and so forth. The UPAD may communicate with the wired devices through wireless connections such as an IEEE 802.11 wireless connection or another type of short range wireless connection as previously discussed. In another embodiment the UPAD may communicate with a selected server in a network core of the MSO that is in communication with a desired consumer device. The server at the network core can then forward the communication on to the wired or wireless device used by the consumer.

The table in provides a summary of example information that the UPAD can obtain through external and internal facing data visibility. For instance the UPAD can obtain information about the subscriber s home service provider and service subscription information from the core networks at the MSO. Interfacing with the web service applications can provide home demographic profiling service applications economic profiling service applications and service activity profiling service applications.

Internal facing data availability enables the UPAD to determine what content or services are being consumed such as what movies are watched the entertainment channels that are viewed and the services used such as chat voice over internet protocol VOIP telephony instant messaging email data usage and so forth.

Internal facing data availability also provides information about the subscriber s consumption behavior. For instance the amount and distance that the subscriber travels can be determined by the location of use of the subscriber s wireless phone. The user s personal preferences and privacy settings can be determined from the use of internet television and wireless phone. Other types of non service applications that are running when service is being consumed can also be determined. For instance applications that are running on a device such as email or a chat client that are not provided by the MSO can be determined.

Internal facing data availability can be used to determine information regarding the subscriber s consumption ambience. One example of consumption ambience is a determination as to what types of devices the subscriber consumes services on. For instance does the subscriber typically watch television programming on the subscriber s television wired internet connection or through a wireless service such as on a tablet computer. A determination can also be made as to whether the subscriber watches television shows in real time or time shifted through the use of a digital video recorder DVR . Another example of the subscriber s consumption ambience is the number of devices that are connected and receiving service at a given time.

The UPAD can communicate with a wireless service provider s wireless network core to obtain information regarding the subscriber s subscription information. Similarly the UPAD can communicate with a wired service provider to obtain subscription information for a subscriber. Web services can be used to provide web profiling service applications for the UPAD as discussed above with respect to . The application of wireless service policies and wired service policies can also be obtained at the UPAD from the wireless and wired service provider s respectively.

Internal facing data visibility at the UPAD includes the ability to obtain behavior analysis based on the subscriber s consumption behavior and consumption ambience analysis based on the subscriber s consumption behavior as previously discussed.

Using the information available the UPAD can then be used to enable the MSO to deliver customized services to the subscriber. By gaining a more detailed and accurate understanding of each subscriber the MSO can aggregate information from hundreds and thousands of subscribers. The aggregated data can be used to generate predictive models that can be used to offer a subscriber customized services based on how the subscriber s aggregate profile information and aggregate consumption information compares with the predictive models. For instance a subscriber may order a sports channels package for his or her television. The UPAD can enable the MSO to have a better understanding of the subscriber including information such as that the subscriber has a wireless television subscription for his or her tablet computer through the MSO. The subscriber can be offered a similar sports package for the wireless television on his or her tablet or other mobile computing device for an additional amount such as 5.00.

Moreover knowledge aggregation at the UPAD can enable the MSO to provide synergism through the combination of services. In other words a subscriber can obtain better services and better value by using an MSO rather than purchasing selected services a la carte. For instance a subscriber may watch football games of his local college on his television connected to the MSO s wired service provider. One week the subscriber may miss the football game. A database in the wired network core can be used to determine that the football game is not being watched as is typically done. The UPAD can obtain information from the wired network core using the service abstraction layer to identify that the subscriber is missing the game. The UPAD can be configured to proactively send a message to the subscriber offering to let the subscriber watch the football game on his portable computing device such as a tablet computer. Alternatively the UPAD may communicate with a television set top box and instruct it to record the football game to a digital video recorder and send a message to the subscriber that allows the subscriber to determine whether to keep the recording on the digital video recorder.

In another embodiment the subscriber may sign up for a premium television package that allows the subscriber to watch multiple premium movie channels. The UPAD can obtain this information from the wired network core. The UPAD can then communicate this information to the wireless network core. The subscriber can then automatically receive the same channels on his or her portable computing device via a wireless service provided by the wireless service provider. The ability of the subscriber to create settings for one device and have those settings transferred automatically to other devices can provide significant benefits to the subscriber. The added benefits of obtaining the bundled services from the MSO rather than purchasing them from multiple vendors can make the MSO s services more valuable to their customers. This can enable the MSO to charge higher prices than a la carte vendors since they offer better services that saves the subscriber time and money and makes it more convenient for the subscriber to use the MSO.

The delivery edge profile aggregation system can also include an external profile aggregation module is configured to aggregate profile information at the UPAD regarding the subscriber. The profile information is aggregated from the subscriber databases at the wired and wireless network cores. A subscriber database at a network core is any database used in conjunction with the network core. Thus a subscriber database at the wireless network core is a database used by the wireless services provider. Similarly a subscriber database at the wired network core is a database used by the wired services provider. Examples of typical databases such as the AAA and PCRF databases have been previously discussed.

The external profile aggregation module can also be configured to interface with web service application servers . The web service application servers are configured to operate applications such as home demographic profiling service applications economic profile profiling service applications and service availability service applications. The information from these applications can be sent to the external profile aggregation module. The information can be aggregated as desired.

In one embodiment the UPAD can be configured to communicate with the subscriber databases through a services abstraction layer . The services abstraction layer is a software layer that may be resident on the UPAD and enables the UPAD to communicate with the subscriber databases in both the wired and wireless networks.

The services abstraction layer may also be used to pass information obtained from a subscriber database in one network to a subscriber database in another network. For instance settings for viewing television that are setup in the wired network may be passed by the UPAD to the wireless network to allow the same settings to take effect for a subscriber s wireless devices. Similarly telephony settings setup in the wired network may be passed to the wireless network. For instance the information may need to be reformatted by the UPAD if the databases in the different networks have different standards.

The delivery edge aggregation system can further comprise an internal profile aggregation module that is configured to aggregate consumption information at the UPAD about the subscriber regarding the subscriber s consumption of wired and wireless services provided by the MSO. In one embodiment the UPAD may be in direct wired or wireless communication with the subscriber s devices that receive services from the MSO. Information regarding the subscriber s consumption of wired and wireless services can be obtained via the direct wired or wireless connection. The consumption information can be aggregated at the UPAD with the profile information that was obtained from the subscriber databases at the wired and wireless network cores.

In another embodiment the UPAD can enable changes to the permissions of one device connected to the wired core to be made to a corresponding device connected to the wireless core and vice versa. For instance as discussed above a change in a television package for a cable television in communication with the wired core can be noted at the UPAD. The UPAD can communicate this change in permission to the wireless core to enable any television services the subscriber may have with wireless devices to be similarly adjusted.

The UPAD can also include a user profile communication module configured to transmit the subscriber s aggregated profile information and aggregated consumption information from the UPAD to the MSO. The information may be transmitted to a database at the wired network core or a database at the wireless network core . Alternatively the aggregated information may be transmitted to additional locations such as the web services server or another server operated by the MSO.

In another embodiment a method for aggregating subscriber information at a delivery edge is disclosed as depicted in the flow chart of . The method comprises interfacing a user profile aggregation device UPAD at a subscriber location with at least one subscriber database in each of a wired network core and a wireless network core. The wired network core and the wireless network core are operated by a Multi System network Operator MSO . In one embodiment the wired and wireless network core may be owned by the MSO. Alternatively the MSO may lease the network cores from other entities or pay other entities a royalty to allow the MSO s subscribers access to their network cores.

The method further comprises aggregating profile information at the UPAD for the subscriber from the at least one subscriber database in the wired network core and the wireless network core. Consumption information can also be aggregated at the UPAD based on the subscriber s consumption of the wired wireless and networking services provided by the MSO. The subscriber s aggregated profile information and aggregated consumption information can be communicated from the UPAD to the MSO.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

