---

title: Presenting digitized content on a network using a cross-linked layer of electronic documents derived from a relational database
abstract: In an embodiment, a computer system comprises one or more content file servers having recorded thereon a plurality of digital content material items, and a plurality of digital graphical image files comprising graphical images associated with the content material items; wherein each of content material items comprises one or more data files of digitized electronic printed, audio, or video content material; one or more navigation page servers each comprising: one or more storage devices having recorded thereon a plurality of navigation page templates; a database comprising stored descriptive information about the content material items, including hierarchical and other relationships both between different content material items and between different subcomponents of content material items; logic encoded on the one or more storage devices and when executed operable to perform: receiving a request to view a particular navigation page, comprising a dynamically-generated electronic document; selecting one of the navigation page templates based on the request; creating and sending to the database, one or more queries for the descriptive information relating to the particular navigation page; receiving one or more results to the queries; generating, based on the one or more results, a particular navigation page comprising descriptive information about one or more of the content material items, portions thereof, or abstract collections thereof; a plurality of links to other such navigation pages; and zero or more links to particular content material items or portions thereof; sending only the particular navigation page to a client computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08271512&OS=08271512&RS=08271512
owner: Unz.org, LLC
number: 08271512
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100310
---
This application claims benefit as a Continuation of application Ser. No. 11 698 440 filed Jan. 26 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 702 684 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 120 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of Provisional Application 60 762 574 filed Jan. 27 2006 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The present disclosure generally relates to data processing. The invention relates more specifically to methods of presenting and organizing digitized content material on a network such as the Internet.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

In recent years there have been growing efforts to digitize large quantities of printed content such as books and periodical issues and effectively distribute such content over the Internet.

This objective seems a reasonable one since printed matter represents pure information and the internet is an efficient means of distributing such information.

Even long prior to the creation of the Internet attempts to digitize and electronically distribute large quantities of printed content were widespread. For decades the collective Gutenberg Project has been digitizing many thousands of classic books into text form and making them available for free downloads from major university computer sites. Database services such as Nexis Lexis had digitized large portions of the archives of major newspapers and periodicals and made the articles available in searchable form to paying customers originally through specialized computer terminals and more recently also through a subscription website.

More recently in late 2003 Amazon.com released a free web based system containing over 100 000 readable searchable books in electronic form and Google and Yahoo have subsequently also announced plans to provide large numbers of books in digitized form. Several magazines have made their archives available over the Internet in a variety of forms sometimes for free and sometimes on a subscription basis.

Yet despite this seemingly natural fit between the digitization of printed content and its distribution over the Internet the general adoption and use of these systems has usually proven much less successful than originally expected. For example the original announcement of Amazon s 100 000 searchable digitized books in late 2003 generated enormous media coverage but subsequent attention has been quite scanty seemingly indicating that the actual effective use of the system is considerably lower than was originally envisioned. Various magazines have also privately indicated that the use of their digitized archives is considerably below their original hopes and expectations.

One weakness of these existing digitization systems for printed content may center upon the inherent trade offs required in the two different forms such digitization schemes usually take namely the text based and the image based .

Under a text based digitization system such as that of Nexis Lexis or the Gutenberg Project the printed content of a book magazine article or newspaper story is converted into a stored file of digital characters for display as HTML on a web page or in some other form. Character storage formats such as ASCII are used.

This type of digitization has the advantage of providing the content in a light weight format and hence is very convenient for use over the Internet even via a non broadband connection. Also the text displayed is exact searchable and can be copied and pasted from the browser window into any other form.

However this text based form of digitization also has serious disadvantages. First producing the text requires performing a scan of the original printed content followed by application of Optical Character Recognition OCR software to produce the text. Although automatic OCR has increasingly improved in quality it still produces a noticeable rate of error requiring subsequent manual correction of the text and therefore dramatically increasing the cost of the digitization process.

Also the printed content of books and periodicals is frequently laid out on the page in a non trivial and significant manner and this layout is lost if the material is converted to pure text furthermore any colors drawings tables or photographs are obviously lost as well.

In addition such text based content is seldom divided by the original pages instead being usually provided either in the form of the large blocks of text representing complete articles or chapters or else being divided in a somewhat arbitrary manner with neither of these choices being ideal.

Finally the ruling of the U.S. Supreme Court in the 2001 decision appears to prohibit newspapers or magazines from permitting their freelance articles to be republished in a different e.g. text based format without the prohibitively difficult requirement of securing authorization from each and every individual writer unless the newspapers or magazines had previously obtained such authorization by contract. This was one of the factors recently cited by the New Yorker magazine in preventing its own archives from being digitized into a text based format.

By contrast the other increasingly popular form of digitization is based on the presentation of the exact scanned images of the printed content generally as binary image files in JPEG TIFF web optimized PDF or some other type of binary image file format.

Although these binary image files require considerably more storage than pure text most of the systems used allow the user to automatically retrieve only the page or two of material being examined rather than the complete contents of the entire book or periodical. Thus instead of having to transmit the entire multi megabyte PDF file of a book over the Internet only a couple of pages are sent at time allowing even large books to be conveniently readable over a non broadband connection.

Being scanned binary images the entire content of the original content material can be preserved including colors layouts drawings and photographs. If the format used is text embedded PDF the binary images are also text searchable and software options may be selected to allow the user to extract any portions of the actual text through standard copy and paste operations.

Finally presentation of the exact scanned images of all the pages of a publication especially if constituted as a single PDF file seemingly falls within the permissible bounds of the Tasini decision and therefore may be authorized at the sole discretion of the original publisher.

Despite these major advantages to the use of image files considerable difficulties still remain. First even despite recent technological advances binary image files still remain considerably larger than regular HTML web pages and many web users are reluctant to add links to these for fear of inconveniencing individuals who are limited to slow Internet connections. Second the insertion of hyperlinks into the body of binary image files is either impossible or in the case of PDF files rather laborious even though the latter format was actually developed partly to provide this exact capability. And once such hyperlinks are added to a PDF file changing or modifying these in any way is almost as difficult. Probably for this reason only a negligible fraction of the digitized printed content on the Internet based on binary images makes use of internal hyperlinks. And since the use of hyperlinks represents one of the most powerful and universal features of the Internet largely sacrificing that capability is a huge weakness.

Furthermore binary image files are static and fixed in their structure and generally quite difficult to easily modify or manipulate. By contrast the ubiquitous HTML web pages which dominate the Internet are flexible and easy to manipulate and an unlimited number of such HTML pages can easily be generated from a single template file written in a web application language such as PHP or ColdFusion with the dynamically derived web pages being determined by the particular Universal Resource Locator URL selected and perhaps the changing values of a server database.

The enormous contrast between the easy linking and flexibility of HTML web pages and the difficulty of applying such techniques to large binary image files including electronic documents in Adobe portable document format PDF probably helps account for the huge current dominance of the former throughout the Internet and the relatively small amount of digitized printed content based on the latter.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In one embodiment a method and system for presenting digitized content on a network using a cross linked layer of dynamic electronic documents derived from a database is provided.

In another embodiment the invention provides a means of conveniently and inexpensively presenting content material items such as digitized books periodical issues and other printed content on the Internet by means of a massively cross linked intermediate layer of light weight and flexible dynamic web pages derived from a relational database.

In one approach a work of printed content is jointly associated with both the underlying binary image representation of the actual printed pages the Content Files and also a set of one or more electronic documents such as HTML web pages which serve as an intermediate presentation linking and navigation layer to those Content Files the Navigation Pages . When HTML web pages are used the Navigation Pages may be lightweight and flexible but other forms of electronic documents can be used as Navigation Pages. The Navigation Pages are dynamically generated by a limited amount of web application programming. The particular instantiations of the Navigation Pages are determined both by a request carried in a network location identifier such as a Universal Resource Locator URL and by the values stored in a database. The Navigation Pages may comprise HTML text. Navigation Pages also may comprise embedded links to lightweight graphical images and also links to programmatic actions such as Javascript action strings.

Certain embodiments of a digitization system for printed content can provide exactness visual convenience legality light weight easy linking flexibility and dynamic database driven production. The use of dynamic pages driven by a database allows the system to be modified or extended merely by updating the database and also automatically ensures the internal consistency and robustness of the system.

This digitization structure separates the Navigation Pages which constitute the numerical bulk of the system containing the design layout internal and external links navigation structure and organization from the underlying Content Files that contain the actual binary images of the digitized printed material and dominate the physical size of the system.

Separating the Navigation Pages and Content Files in this approach allows the potentially quite large Content Files to remain unchanged even if the more numerous Navigation Pages representing the design structure of the system are transformed over time either by changing portions of the web application programming or by updating the values contained in the relational database. Conversely if future technological advances call for the modification or replacement of the underlying Content Files such modification or replacement would have little or no necessary effect on the overall layout or design of the digitization system which is separately represented by the collection of Navigation Pages.

This architecture also allows an embodiment in which the Content Files are made available on the Internet in an open unrestricted and transparently linkable form while the Navigation Pages are simultaneously subject to various sorts of desired user restrictions thereby providing the framework for a potentially workable open content system. Under various embodiments some or all of the Content Files may be provided by third parties and hosted on third party servers.

In one embodiment Navigation Pages are dynamically generated by web application programming. This ensures that the Navigation Pages are automatically standardized including the standardization of their inter linkages and connections to the underlying Content Files. Also since the Navigation Pages are only produced upon request of the user even enormously large or almost unlimited numbers of such virtual Navigation Pages may involve no additional storage space prior to actual generation of the Navigation Pages.

In one embodiment since the Navigation Pages are relatively numerous lightweight and generally determined by the requesting URL and the underlying relational database instantiation of the Navigation Pages can be performed in parallel across a potentially large number of almost independent Navigation Page computer servers each possessing separate copies of that unchanging relational database and separated from the operation of the more limited number of Content File servers. This server multiplication may be useful for handling heavy user loads since the bulk of traffic will probably be to the Navigation Pages. Also since the Content Files for digitized material are generally far larger in size than the corresponding database information the storage requirements of the Navigation Page servers will be lower compared to that of the overall system.

In one approach the underlying Content Files may be represented by searchable files. For example password locked text embedded PDF files may be used. Additionally or alternatively the Content Files may be produced either via a scanning process from printed material or directly by the desktop publishing software which originally produced the content. These Content Files may be mostly or entirely located on the system s servers e.g. servers of .

The Navigation Pages for this embodiment may be dynamically generated electronic documents. For example the Navigation Pages may be HTML web pages that are dynamically generated by one or more templates written in the ColdFusion web application programming language and connected to a MySQL relational database also maintained on the website server with the Internet requests managed by an Apache web page server. In one embodiment a generally small number of templates is needed. An example embodiment is described further below with reference to .

In an embodiment the database contains a variety of descriptive information on the digitized publications. A relational database such as MySQL or Microsoft SQL Server may be used. For example the database stores the titles subtitles authors and page numbers of the various books periodical issues articles chapters and other categories of printed content. The database also stores indexed values relating these different hierarchical database items to each other. Most of this descriptive information can be obtained either from various available third party databases or from the actual books and periodical issues and their tables of contents obtained during or after the digitization process itself.

Thus in one embodiment each digitized book is represented by a Content File as well as a set of Navigation Pages. In an embodiment one of the Navigation Pages can display the book s table of contents with each chapter line item containing a link to the Navigation Page for that chapter as well as a link to the first page of that chapter in the Content Files. This approach allows the user to easily move from the Navigation Page for the entire book to the Navigation Page for any given chapter or to the actual beginning of that chapter in readable binary image form. Meanwhile in an embodiment the Navigation Page for a given chapter may contain links to the Navigation Pages of the next and previous chapters as well as to the Navigation Page for the entire book and the beginning of that chapter in the Content File.

In this embodiment or another embodiment a digitized periodical comprises a set of top level Navigation Pages presenting the overall contents of the periodical. The Navigation Pages may comprise a summary of the different years or decades encompassed. A top level Navigation Page may also be linked to a hierarchical series of Navigation Pages displaying the contents of the individual decades years quarters or months of the periodical each of which may be linked to its parents children and neighboring siblings in the Navigation Page hierarchy. In one embodiment higher level Navigation Pages are linked to the Navigation Pages for the individual issues of the periodical.

Each individual issue of a digitized periodical is represented by a Content File and a set of Navigation Pages. In one embodiment at least one of the Navigation Pages displays the issue s table of contents. In an embodiment the table of contents page contains one or more links to the Navigation Pages of each article as well as to the first page of that article in the Content file. In an embodiment the Navigation Pages for the articles are linked to the Navigation Pages of the entire issue as well as to the beginning of that article in the Content File.

A digitization system as described herein may contain a potentially vast number of different Navigation Pages representing the different periodicals years issues articles books and chapters of the digitized publications each being potentially presented in a variety of different display modes or formats and all cross linked in a number of different ways.

Aside from a small amount of descriptive text drawn from the database Navigation Pages also may contain embedded links to one or more relatively small graphical images. In an embodiment Navigation Pages display reduced JPEG versions of the covers of the books and periodical issues produced as byproducts of the digitization process. Such images may usefully serve as mnemonic devices allowing the user to more easily recall distinguish and locate the desired Navigation Page.

Since the Navigation Pages are dynamic database driven pages the Navigation Pages may be generated by a relatively few different templates written in the web application language and taking their different forms and layouts based on the values drawn from the database. Thus adding the potentially large number of additional Navigation Pages required for every additional digitized book or periodical requires a small amount of effort apart from inserting the appropriate descriptive information into the underlying relational database. Navigation Pages can also be added as placeholders for content which the system does not contain in digitized form for example films music or books without corresponding Content Files.

Furthermore in various embodiments the primary content Navigation Pages may be augmented by a large number of additional somewhat more abstract Navigation Pages useful for organizational purposes. For example in one embodiment each author of a given publication in the system is represented by a set of additional Navigation Pages cross linking all the available works of that author in a variety of different representations. Similar sets of Navigation Pages would be available for individual organizations and the various books periodicals and reports they have produced. In another embodiment a category of Navigation Pages may also display the entire range of periodical issues published at any given year and date thereby providing a time slice of public information at that moment. Different embodiments may contain a wide range of other types of abstract Navigation Pages enabling the convenient and efficient grouping of publications across a wide variety of different axes and degrees of freedom.

In various embodiments Navigation Pages corresponding to book review articles may contain links to Navigation Pages for the books reviewed whether or not these books are represented by Content Files. Navigation Pages for books may be linked to Navigation Pages for the reviews of that book. Navigation Pages for films may be cross linked with the Navigation Pages corresponding to the reviews of those films. In addition these Navigation Pages might also contain a variety of other relevant or useful links buttons or type of information.

When a lightweight and dynamic form is used for the Navigation Pages the Navigation Pages are highly suitable for linking. An embodiment containing a large number and variety of different Navigation Pages will allow users to more easily select a link suitable for their needs. An increase in such external links will raise the visibility of the linked pages and the overall system in the major Internet search engines.

Since the Navigation Pages are dynamically generated from a relational database their linkages internal structure or organization can generally be specified by a small number of efficient database queries thereby minimizing the computer overhead required for their generation. For example these queries would be particularly efficient for producing grouped links of the digitized content of a related nature such as a Navigation Page displaying all the periodical issues of a given year sorted by date or a Navigation Page displaying all the articles written by a given author sorted by title.

Further in certain embodiments the overall system architecture allows an efficient division of labor during the production process separating the creation of A the appearance and linkages of the system determined by the web application programming B the binary image content determined by the Content Files and generally produced by scanning OCR and C the characteristics of the particular Navigation Pages determined by the relational database and partly derived via data entry from the particular tables of contents. Therefore the procedures used to produce or modify A B and C are largely independent and can be performed in sequence or possibly in parallel by different individuals or groups thereby tending to maximize the efficiency of the production process. The efficiency of the production process may be further increased because in most cases nearly all the information required for the production of Navigation Pages is derived from a tiny fraction of the printed content namely the tables of contents and perhaps the title pages.

In an embodiment a computer system comprises one or more content file servers having recorded thereon a plurality of digital content material items and a plurality of digital graphical image files comprising graphical images associated with the content material items wherein each of content material items comprises one or more data files of digitized electronic printed audio or video content material one or more navigation page servers each comprising one or more storage devices having recorded thereon a plurality of navigation page templates a database comprising stored descriptive information about the content material items including hierarchical and other relationships both between different content material items and between different subcomponents of content material items logic encoded on the one or more storage devices and when executed operable to perform receiving a request to view a particular navigation page comprising a dynamically generated electronic document selecting one of the navigation page templates based on the request creating and sending to the database one or more queries for the descriptive information relating to the particular navigation page receiving one or more results to the queries generating based on the one or more results a particular navigation page comprising descriptive information about one or more of the content material items portions thereof or abstract collections thereof a plurality of links to other such navigation pages and zero or more links to particular content material items or portions thereof sending only the particular navigation page to a client computer.

Programming development in the web application language produces one or more templates that are used to dynamically generate the Navigation Pages. Templates contain the basic design architecture of the system including the specific layout and displayable views of the Navigation Pages as well as their links to each other to the Content Files and to any external web pages. All such programming may be performed using Cold Fusion PHP or some other present or future web application language using standard software programming techniques for the creation of dynamic web pages.

As shown in step summary descriptive information on the digitized content material items is obtained either through data entry from the content itself or from an external database or other source and inserted into the underlying relational database . Standard database programming techniques may be used to insert such information. Step may be performed in parallel with step . For various embodiments such summary information might include the authors titles and starting pages of books chapters and articles. In the case of printed content material items most of the summary information can usually be obtained from the table of contents page of the book or periodical issue.

Any printed content not already in binary image format may be scanned and digitized into such format using standard technologies including OCR processing to extract and embed ASCII versions of the text . Step may be performed in parallel with steps . For an example embodiment the outputs of this processing are searchable text embedded PDF files which constitute the Content Files of this embodiment. In this example embodiment the binary images of the cover pages of the printed content are also separately extracted and compressed to produce lightweight JPEG graphical image files used for display on the Navigation Pages.

Once these production processes have been completed the generation of a given Navigation Page draws upon the web application programming templates the descriptive information contained in the relational database and the lightweight graphical image files and may contain links to the appropriate Content Files .

First a user on a client machine specifies a particular network location identifier such as a URL for the website . This URL request is received and parsed by the web page server of the system which determines whether the URL request corresponds to a Content File or to a Navigation Page.

The particular method of indicating whether a URL request refers to a Content File or a Navigation Page is completely embodiment dependent and is chosen for programming convenience and elegance. For an example embodiment the URL representing the default displayed view of the Navigation Page for an article beginning on page 30 of the Jun. 14 1947 issue of Saturday Review would end in . . . Publication SaturdayRev 1947jun14 00030 . In this same example embodiment the URL corresponding to the first page of that same article in the Content File of that issue would be indicated by adding the suffix View PDF to that string producing the URL ending

If the URL request is determined to correspond to a Content File it is directed to the Content File Server which then delivers the appropriate Content File over the Internet to the user .

If the URL request is determined to correspond to a Navigation Page it is directed to the Navigation Page Server . Here the Web Application Programming software server runs templates to parse the request in more detail determining the particular Navigation Page to be displayed and formulating one or more relational queries required to obtain the information required by that page. The one or more queries are sent to the relational database server which returns the required data in a database server response . The software server then uses the data in the database server response to produce the Navigation Page incorporating appropriate links to Content Files graphic images and other Navigation Pages and via the web page server provides the resulting Navigation Page over the Internet to the user. The programming techniques used in the templates for producing the appropriate Navigation Page are the standard ones for producing a complex dynamic web page from a URL request and the information contained in a relational database.

Once a requested Navigation Page has been received the user can examine the information on that page or click on any of the numerous embedded links in order to transfer to a Content File or to a different Navigation Page .

Navigation page further comprises a content link section that comprises one or more links to particular articles chapters or other sections of the book. For example a first link identifies a first article in the book and when selected causes the system to display that article. Alternatively if the first article has one or more sub sections or hierarchically lower levels of content then selecting first link causes generating another navigation page that identifies the sub sections or levels. For each link a document link identifies an electronic digital representation of the article such as a PDF file. Navigation page also may comprise a digital image of a portion of the book associated with the content link section to enable a user to visually correlate the content link section and the actual content material item.

For the periodical identified in navigation page in this example the journal Dissent one or more period links are provided and when selected cause generating additional navigation pages associated with time periods within the decade represented by the periodical navigation page. Previous Next links enable generating additional navigation pages that are similar in form to navigation page but are associated with a different decade of publication.

Navigation page further comprises display control links which when selected change the format and content of a content section of the navigation page. For example different display control links can cause generating a new navigation page that shows a list of all issues of the publication for the associated decade all covers all columns etc.

Within the content section a graphical image indicates the cover of the first issue of the associated decade. Each issue within that decade is represented by issue information which may comprise an issue link and a document link . Selecting the issue link causes generating a new navigation page that shows all content within the selected issue similar in form to . Selecting the document link causes displaying the electronic digital representation of the selected issue such as a PDF file.

For the periodical identified in navigation page in this example the journal Reason a document link enables displaying the electronic digital representation of the periodical such as a PDF file. Organization link when selected causes generating another navigation page showing all content material items associated with the organization that is named in the link. is an example organization page. Previous Next links enable generating additional navigation pages that are similar in fowl to navigation page but are associated with a different issue of the publication.

Navigation page further comprises display control links which when selected change the format and content of a content section of the navigation page. For example different display control links can cause generating a new navigation page that shows a condensed table of contents the first text in the periodical only articles in the periodical only book reviews in the periodical etc.

Within the content section a graphical image indicates the cover of the periodical. Each subordinate content item within the issue such as articles or book reviews is represented by article information which may comprise an article link and a document link . Selecting the article link causes generating a new navigation page that shows all content within the selected article such as a navigation page having links to subsections of the article if any. Selecting the document link causes displaying the electronic digital representation of the selected article such as a PDF file.

Navigation page may comprise one or more format links which when selected cause generating a new navigation page in a different format. For example format links can cause generating a navigation page in a condensed format a navigation page showing only covers of the author s books covers in large image format etc.

Navigation page may comprise one or more sort links which when selected cause generating a new navigation page in which the content section is sorted in different ways. For example various sort links can cause the system to generate a new navigation page in which the content material items shown in content section are sorted by title date size order etc.

Navigation page also may comprise one or more decade links that cause generating a new navigation page that shows only content material items of the associated author that were published in the decade or other time period indicated in the link. Navigation page also may comprise one or more title links that cause generating a new navigation page that shows only content material items of the associated author that have titles that begin with the alphabetic letter indicated in the link.

In an embodiment navigation page may comprise range links which when selected cause generating a new navigation page that includes only content material items of the associated author within a specified range of result items. For example indicates eight items numbered 1 8 within the first 1 25 result items. Other links can display content material items within other ranges of results associated with the author.

Content section comprises one or more content material item information sets that provide specific information about content material items of the author. For example information set comprises a title item that indicates the name of a content material item authored by the associated author and may include a title link to the Navigation Page associated with that content material item and a periodical link to the periodical in which the item or title was published. Selecting a document link causes displaying the electronic digital representation of the selected content material item such as a PDF file.

Navigation page further comprises display control links which when selected change the format and content of a content section of the navigation page. For example different display control links can cause generating a new navigation page that shows all content material items that the associated organization has distributed periodicals of the organization only sets of the organization only books only major references etc.

Navigation page further comprises format control links which when selected change the format of content section . For example format control links can cause generating a new navigation page that shows a condensed list of content material items only covers of the content material items of the organization only large graphical images of covers of the content material items etc.

Navigation page may comprise one or more sort links which when selected cause generating a new navigation page in which the content section is sorted in different ways. For example various sort links can cause the system to generate a new navigation page in which the content material items shown in content section are sorted by title date size order etc. Navigation page also may comprise one or more decade links that cause generating a new navigation page that shows only content material items of the associated organization that were published in the decade or other time period indicated in the link. Navigation page also may comprise one or more title links that cause generating a new navigation page that shows only content material items of the associated organization that have titles that begin with the alphabetic letter indicated in the link.

Content section may comprise an enumerated list of content material items associated with an organization. Each content material item is identified by a graphical image of the content material item a title link and a document link . The title link when selected causes displaying a new navigation page associated with the content material specified by the selected title. Selecting the document link causes displaying an electronic digital representation of the content material item such as a PDF file.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse trackball stylus or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for presenting and organizing digitized content material on a network. According to one embodiment of the invention presenting and organizing digitized content material on a network is provided by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modern. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modern to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface . In accordance with the invention one such downloaded application provides for presenting and organizing digitized content material on a network as described herein.

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

For example instead of being provided as a text embedded single PDF file the Content File representing the page images of a digitized publication could also be provided in some other format such as being TIFFs JPEGs or some other present or future binary image format. In various embodiments the page images are displayed as stand alone binary images or displayed within a lightweight webpage framework such as an inserted image within the inline frame of an HTML page. The page images may be bound together into a single file provided as separate files or exist as Binary Large Objects BLOBs inside a database. Instead of being composed of simple HTML text the Navigation Pages may be also rendered in XML or some other present or future lightweight text oriented format.

Instead of being based on ColdFusion the templates used to produce the lightweight dynamic Navigation Pages might instead use PHP or some other present or future web application programming language. In addition instead of MySQL the database system could instead rely on Oracle SQL Microsoft SQL Server or some other present or future SQL or other relational database. Instead of using Apache the Internet requests could be managed by some other present or future web page server.

Instead of being restricted to printed material the primary content Navigation Pages of the system could also extended to other forms of content such as films and music albums or other types of digitized audio or video content.

A wide variety of additional types of secondary abstract Navigation Pages could also be added to the system besides those just for authors and organizations. These could be used to organize and group the content Navigation Pages in additional ways.

