---

title: Alarm consolidation system and method
abstract: Methods and system for consolidating alarms using a data center monitoring appliance are provided. The method includes receiving at least one alarm from an physical infrastructure device via the network, determining that the at least one alarm is subject to a consolidation filter, the consolidation filter specifying characteristics of a consolidated alarm and generating the consolidated alarm according to the characteristics specified in the consolidation filter. The system includes a network interface, a memory and a controller coupled to the network interface and the memory and configured to receive at least one alarm from an physical infrastructure device via the network interface, determine that the at least one alarm is subject to a consolidation filter, the consolidation filter specifying characteristics of a consolidated alarm and generate the consolidated alarm according to the characteristics specified in the consolidation filter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373246&OS=09373246&RS=09373246
owner: SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC IT CORPORATION
number: 09373246
owner_city: West Kingston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100204
---
At least one aspect in accord with the present invention relates generally to apparatus and processes for monitoring data centers and more specifically to apparatus and processes for reporting correlated alarms in a coordinated manner.

Data center monitoring systems provide for the efficient monitoring of large scale computing environments. Conventional data center monitoring systems include sensors that monitor the operating environment of a data center and in some case the operational status of individual pieces of equipment. Under some configurations these sensors report operational information to a centralized system that analyzes the operational information and generates any warranted alarms. Alarms are customarily reported to personnel charged with maximizing the uptime of data center equipment.

Aspects in accord with the present invention manifest an appreciation that conventional data center monitoring systems can produce voluminous information in which events that should be reported in a coordinated fashion are instead reported as disparate events. According to various examples aspects provide for the generation and distribution of consolidated alarms via one or more consolidation filters. In these examples consolidation filters direct the gathering and reporting of individual alarms in the aggregate. Thus examples provide for more relevant notifications that allow external entities such as data center technicians to more efficiently address potential problems encountered within the data center operating environment.

According to at least one aspect a method for consolidating alarms using a data center monitoring appliance coupled to a network is provided. The method includes acts of receiving at least one alarm from an physical infrastructure device via the network determining that the at least one alarm is subject to a consolidation filter the consolidation filter specifying characteristics of a consolidated alarm and generating the consolidated alarm according to the characteristics specified in the consolidation filter.

In the method the act of receiving the at least one alarm may include an act of receiving a plurality of alarms. In addition the act of receiving the plurality of alarms may include acts of receiving at least one alarm triggered by event information from a contact sensor and receiving at least one alarm triggered by event information from a humidity sensor. Further the act of receiving the plurality of alarms may include acts of receiving a first alarm at a first time and receiving a second alarm at a second time and the act of determining that the at least one alarm is subject to the consolidation filter may include an act of calculating a difference between the first time and the second time. Moreover the act of receiving the plurality of alarms may include acts of receiving a first alarm at a first time and receiving a second alarm at a second time and the act of determining that the at least one alarm is subject to the consolidation filter may include an act of calculating a difference between the second time and a current time.

The method may further include an act of reporting the consolidated alarm to an external entity when a difference between the first time and the current time exceeds a threshold value. In the method the act of determining that the at least one alarm is subject to the consolidation filter may include an act of determining that the at least one alarm belongs to an alarm group. Additionally the act of determining that the at least one alarm belongs to the alarm group may include an act of reading the alarm group from the consolidation filter. Further the method may further include an act of reporting the consolidated alarm to an external entity. Moreover the method may further include an act of determining that the consolidated alarm is subject to a notification policy. According to the method the notification policy may specify a communication method and the act of reporting the consolidated alarm may include an act of providing the consolidated alarm according to the communication method.

According to another aspect a data center management appliance is provided. The data center management appliance includes a network interface a memory and a controller coupled to the network interface and the memory. The controller is configured to receive at least one alarm from an physical infrastructure device via the network interface determine that the at least one alarm is subject to a consolidation filter the consolidation filter specifying characteristics of a consolidated alarm and generate the consolidated alarm according to the characteristics specified in the consolidation filter.

In the data center management appliance the controller configured to receive the at least one alarm may be further configured to receive a plurality of alarms. In addition the controller configured to receive the plurality of alarms may be further configured to receive at least one alarm triggered by event information from a contact sensor and receive at least one alarm triggered by event information from a humidity sensor. Further the controller configured to receive the plurality of alarms may be further configured to receive a first alarm at a first time receive a second alarm at second time and calculate a difference between the first time and the second time. Moreover the controller configured to receive the plurality of alarms may be further configured to receive a first alarm at a first time receive a second alarm at second time and calculate a difference between the second time and a current time. Additionally the controller may be further configured to report the consolidated alarm to an external entity when a difference between the first time and the current time exceeds a threshold value. Furthermore the controller configured to determine that the at least one alarm is subject to the consolidation filter may be further configured to determine that the at least one alarm belongs to an alarm group.

Also in the data center management appliance the controller configured to determine that the at least one alarm belong to the alarm group may be further configured to read the alarm group from the consolidation filter. In addition the controller may be further configured to report the consolidated alarm to an external entity. Further the controller may be further configured to determine that the consolidated alarm is subject to a notification policy the notification policy specifying a communication method and provide the consolidated alarm according to the communication method.

Still other aspects examples and advantages of these exemplary aspects and examples are discussed in detail below. Any example disclosed herein may be combined with any other example in any manner consistent with at least one of the objects aims and needs disclosed herein and references to an example some examples an alternate example various examples one example at least one example this and other examples or the like are not necessarily mutually exclusive and are intended to indicate that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example may be included in at least one example. The appearances of such terms herein are not necessarily all referring to the same example. The accompanying drawings are included to provide illustration and a further understanding of the various aspects and examples and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification. The drawings together with the remainder of the specification serve to explain principles and operations of the described and claimed aspects and examples.

Aspects and examples relate to apparatus and processes that allow external entities such as users or systems to easily configure and maintain a set of consolidation filters and notification policies that produce and distribute consolidated alarms. In at least one example a system and method are provided for generating one or more consolidated alarms based on one or more individual alarms having a common set of attributes. According to some examples the consolidated alarm has discrete characteristics separate from the individual alarms that triggered the consolidated alarm. In other examples the consolidated alarm combines or aggregates the individual alarm instances thus allowing external entities to review both the consolidated alarm and the individual alarm instances.

Examples of the methods and apparatuses discussed herein are not limited in application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The methods and apparatuses are capable of implementation in other examples and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Examples of specific implementations are provided herein for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to be limiting. In particular acts elements and features discussed in connection with any one or more examples are not intended to be excluded from a similar role in any other examples.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. Any references to examples or elements or acts of the apparatus and methods herein referred to in the singular may also embrace examples including a plurality of these elements and any references in plural to any example or element or act herein may also embrace examples including only a single element. References in the singular or plural form are not intended to limit the presently disclosed systems or methods their components acts or elements. The use herein of including comprising having containing involving and variations thereof is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items. References to or may be construed as inclusive so that any terms described using or may indicate any of a single more than one and all of the described terms. Any references to front and back left and right top and bottom upper and lower and vertical and horizontal are intended for convenience of description not to limit the present apparatus and methods or their components to any one positional or spatial orientation.

Various aspects and functions described herein may be implemented as hardware or software on one or more computer systems. There are many examples of computer systems currently in use. These examples include among others network appliances personal computers workstations mainframes networked clients servers media servers application servers database servers and web servers. Other examples of computer systems may include mobile computing devices such as cellular phones and personal digital assistants and network equipment such as load balancers routers and switches. Further aspects may be located on a single computer system or may be distributed among a plurality of computer systems connected to one or more communications networks.

For example various aspects and functions may be distributed among one or more computer systems configured to provide a service to one or more client computers or to perform an overall task as part of a distributed system. Additionally aspects may be performed on a client server or multi tier system that includes components distributed among one or more server systems that perform various functions. Consequently examples are not limited to executing on any particular system or group of systems. Further aspects may be implemented in software hardware or firmware or any combination thereof. Thus aspects may be implemented within methods acts systems system elements and components using a variety of hardware and software configurations and examples are not limited to any particular distributed architecture network or communication protocol.

Referring to there is illustrated a block diagram of a distributed computer system in which various aspects and functions may be practiced. The distributed computer system may include one more computer systems that exchange i.e. send or receive information. For example as illustrated the distributed computer system includes computer systems and . As shown the computer systems and are interconnected by and may exchange data through communication a network . The network may include any communication network through which computer systems may exchange data. To exchange data using the network the computer systems and and the network may use various methods protocols and standards including among others Token Ring Ethernet Wireless Ethernet Bluetooth TCP IP UDP DTN HTTP FTP SNMP SMS MMS SS7 JSON SOAP CORBA REST and Web Services. To ensure data transfer is secure the computer systems and may transmit data via the network using a variety of security measures including for example TSL SSL or VPN. While the distributed computer system illustrates three networked computer systems the distributed computer system is not so limited and may include any number of computer systems and computing devices networked using any medium and communication protocol.

Various aspects and functions may be implemented as specialized hardware or software executing in one or more computer systems including the computer system shown in . As depicted the computer system includes a processor a memory a bus an interface and a storage . The processor may perform a series of instructions that result in manipulated data. The processor may be a commercially available processor such as an Intel Xeon Itanium Core Celeron Pentium AMD Opteron Sun UltraSPARC IBM Power5 or IBM mainframe chip but may be any type of processor multiprocessor or controller. The processor is connected to other system elements including one or more memory devices by the bus .

The memory may be used for storing programs and data during operation of the computer system . Thus the memory may be a relatively high performance volatile random access memory such as a dynamic random access memory DRAM or static memory SRAM . However the memory may include any device for storing data such as a disk drive or other non volatile storage device. Various examples may organize the memory into particularized and in some cases unique structures to perform the functions disclosed herein.

Components of the computer system may be coupled by an interconnection element such as the bus . The bus may include one or more physical busses for example busses between components that are integrated within a same machine but may include any communication coupling between system elements including specialized or standard computing bus technologies such as IDE SCSI PCI and InfiniBand. Thus the bus enables communications for example data and instructions to be exchanged between system components of the computer system .

The computer system also includes one or more interface devices such as input devices output devices and combination input output devices. Interface devices may receive input or provide output. More particularly output devices may render information for external presentation. Input devices may accept information from external sources. Examples of interface devices include keyboards mouse devices trackballs microphones touch screens printing devices display screens speakers network interface cards etc. Interface devices allow the computer system to exchange information and communicate with external entities such as users and other systems.

The storage system may include a computer readable and writeable nonvolatile data storage medium in which instructions are stored that define a program that may be executed by the processor . The storage system also may include information that is recorded on or in the medium and this information may be processed by the processor during execution of the program. More specifically the information may be stored in one or more data structures specifically configured to conserve storage space or increase data exchange performance. The instructions may be persistently stored as encoded signals and the instructions may cause the processor to perform any of the functions described herein. The medium may for example be optical disk magnetic disk or flash memory among others. In operation the processor or some other controller may cause data to be read from the nonvolatile recording medium into another memory such as the memory that allows for faster access to the information by the processor than does the storage medium included in the storage system . The memory may be located in the storage system or in the memory however the processor may manipulate the data within the memory and then copy the data to the medium associated with the storage system after processing is completed. A variety of components may manage data movement between the medium and integrated circuit memory element and examples is not limited thereto. Further examples are not limited to a particular memory system or storage system.

Although the computer system is shown by way of example as one type of computer system upon which various aspects and functions may be practiced aspects are not limited to being implemented on the computer system as shown in . Various aspects and functions may be practiced on one or more computers having a different architectures or components than that shown in . For instance the computer system may include specially programmed special purpose hardware such as for example an application specific integrated circuit ASIC tailored to perform a particular operation disclosed herein. While another example may perform the same function using a grid of several general purpose computing devices running MAC OS System X with Motorola PowerPC processors and several specialized computing devices running proprietary hardware and operating systems.

The computer system may be a computer system including an operating system that manages at least a portion of the hardware elements included in the computer system . Usually a processor or controller such as the processor executes an operating system which may be for example a Windows based operating system such as Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows ME Windows XP or Windows Vista operating systems available from the Microsoft Corporation a MAC OS System X operating system available from Apple Computer one of many Linux based operating system distributions for example the Enterprise Linux operating system available from Red Hat Inc. a Solaris operating system available from Sun Microsystems or a UNIX operating systems available from various sources. Many other operating systems may be used and examples are not limited to any particular implementation.

The processor and operating system together define a computer platform for which application programs in high level programming languages may be written. These component applications may be executable intermediate bytecode or interpreted code which communicates over a communication network for example the Internet using a communication protocol for example TCP IP. Similarly aspects may be implemented using an object oriented programming language such as .Net SmallTalk Java C Ada or C C Sharp . Other object oriented programming languages may also be used. Alternatively functional scripting or logical programming languages may be used.

Additionally various aspects and functions may be implemented in a non programmed environment for example documents created in HTML XML or other format that when viewed in a window of a browser program render aspects of a graphical user interface or perform other functions. Further various examples may be implemented as programmed or non programmed elements or any combination thereof. For example a web page may be implemented using HTML while a data object called from within the web page may be written in C . Thus the examples are not limited to a specific programming language and any suitable programming language could be used.

The examples disclosed herein may perform a wide variety of functions and may be implemented using various tools. For instance aspects of an exemplary system may be implemented using an existing commercial product such as for example Database Management Systems such as SQL Server available from Microsoft of Seattle Wash. Oracle Database from Oracle of Redwood Shores Calif. and MySQL from Sun Microsystems of Santa Clara Calif. or integration software such as Web Sphere middleware from IBM of Armonk N.Y. A computer system running for example SQL Server may be able to support both aspects in accord with specific examples disclosed herein and databases for sundry other applications not discussed in the present disclosure. Thus functional components disclosed herein may include a wide variety of elements such as executable code data structures or objects configured to perform their described functions.

Information may flow between the elements components and subsystems described herein using any technique. Such techniques include for example passing the information over the network via TCP IP passing the information between modules in memory and passing the information by writing to a file database or some other non volatile storage device. In addition pointers or other references to information may be transmitted and received in place of or in addition to copies of the information. Conversely the information may be exchanged in place of or in addition to pointers or other references to the information. Other techniques and protocols for communicating information may be used without departing from the scope of the examples discussed herein.

Referring to a system includes a user an alarm consolidation interface a data center management appliance a communications network and a set of physical infrastructure devices. Examples of physical infrastructure devices include generators uninterruptible power supplies UPSs transformers power distribution units PDUs outlets computer room air handlers CRAHs rack mounted air conditioners RMACs computer room air conditioners CRACs environmental sensors such as temperature humidity and airflow sensors and security devices such as security cameras door contact sensors and the like. While physical infrastructure devices may include enough computing resources to control the operation of the physical infrastructure device these computing resources are limited and tailored to support the operation of the physical infrastructure devices. In at least one example these limited computer resources may be disposed upon a Network Management Card NMC such as a UPS NMC available from APC by Schneider Electric. The particular physical infrastructure devices shown in include a PDU a CRAH a CRAC a UPS and a RMAC and a sensor device .

Each of the physical infrastructure devices shown in may transmit event information via the network to the data center management appliance . The network may be among other types of networks a private network such as a LAN WAN extranet or intranet or may be a public network such as the internet . In the example shown the network is a LAN.

The event information transmitted via the network may include any information regarding the operations of the physical infrastructure devices or information regarding the operating environment of the physical infrastructure devices. For example the sensor device may be an environmental sensor that provides information regarding ambient conditions near the sensor device such as the NetBotz device available from APC by Schneider Electric. In other examples the sensor may be a contact sensor or security camera. In each of these examples the data center management appliance includes elements configured to receive the event information and to generate alarms based on this event information.

In one example the system is configured to present the alarm consolidation interface to an external entity such as the user . The alarm consolidation interface includes elements configured to create store modify delete or otherwise configure consolidation filters and notification policies. In addition the alarm consolidation interface includes elements configured to search and present triggered consolidated alarms to the external entity. In at least one example the alarm consolidation interface is a browser based user interface served and rendered by the data center management appliance . In other examples other suitable user and system interfacing technologies may be used. Thus according to a variety of examples the alarm consolidation interface may include a plurality of individual interfaces that provide for configuration and review of consolidation filters notification polices and consolidated alarms.

According to various examples the consolidation filter defines one or more characteristics of a consolidated alarm that is generated when the data center management appliance generates a member of an alarm group associated with the consolidated alarm. Example characteristics of a consolidated alarm that may be configured via a consolidation filter include a description root cause severity and recommended response. In some of these examples the consolidation filter also specifies the members of the alarm group that is associated with the consolidated alarm. In these examples an alarm group may include one or more alarms with one or more common attributes. The common attributes that may be used to form the alarm group include both physical and logical attributes. Physical attributes may include a physical location such as a particular rack row room building etc. of the device reporting event information that triggers an alarm. Logical attributes may include an identifier of a reporting device or membership of the reporting device in a logical group such as an arbitrary user assigned device group a network segment power path group cooling zone group capacity group or device functional type. Logical attributes may also include the content or type of the alarm and the time the alarm was reported or initiated. Examples of the alarm content include among others severity temperature humidity airflow information contact sensor information power information network connectivity information device error or failure information motion detection information and sound detection information.

Also in these examples a notification policy defines the manner in which an external entity such as the user or a separate system will be provided one or more consolidated alarms generated via one or more consolidation filters. Example delivery methods for consolidated alarms include among others email FTP HTTP and SNMP. Examples of consolidation filters and notification policies are discussed further below.

As shown in the data center management appliance presents the consolidation interface to the user . A data center management appliance is a specialized computing device engineered to provide data center design monitoring and configuration services. According to one example the data center management appliance is an InfraStruXure Central Server appliance available from APC by Schneider Electric. As illustrated the data center management appliance may exchange or store information with the physical infrastructure devices and the sensor device via the network . This information may include any information required to support the features and functions of the data center management appliance . For example this information may include event information which is further processed by the data center management appliance into alarms and consolidated alarms.

According to various examples the data center management appliance includes elements configured to produce a variety of consolidation filters. In one example the data center management appliance can create a consolidation filter that aggregates environmental and temporal information provided by several alarms into a single consolidated alarm. For instance a user may wish to be notified when a contact door sensor is open for greater than four minutes and the humidity within an enclosure is over 67 . Given this goal the user can configure a consolidation filter to produce a consolidated alarm when both an alarm indicating that a door of an enclosure is open for greater than four minutes and an alarm indicating that the humidity within the enclosure is over 67 are generated within a particular time window. In addition the user can configure this consolidated alarm to provide a suggested root cause of the alarm such as The humidity is too high because the door was left open. In another example a user may wish to be notified when the rate of increase of humidity in a space is greater than 10 in 10 minutes but only when no doors to the space are open. In this case the user can configure a consolidation filter to produce a consolidate alarm when this situation occurs.

In another example the data center management appliance is configured to implement consolidation filters that prevent overly repetitious reporting of alarms. In this example the data center management appliance implements a consolidation filter that combines into one or more consolidated alarms individual alarms that occur during a specified time window and that are initiated by members of a particular logical or physical grouping of physical infrastructure devices. For instance the data center management appliance can be configured with a consolidation filter that combines all alarms that are initiated within a 90 second window from a particular room of a data center.

In another example the data center management appliance includes elements configured to provide notifications of consolidated alarms according to a notification policy. In this example the data center management appliance exposes an interface through which the user can configure notification policies. Once these notification policies are configured and associated with one or more consolidation filters the data center management appliance can deliver consolidated alarms according to the applicable notification policies. Thus examples of the data center management appliance allow users to configure consolidated alarms that provide more targeted and meaningful information than conventional monitoring and alarm systems.

Information including consolidation filters and notification policies may be stored on the data center management appliance in any logical construction capable of storing information on a computer readable medium including among other structures flat files indexed files hierarchical databases relational databases or object oriented databases. The data may be modeled using unique and foreign key relationships and indexes. The unique and foreign key relationships and indexes may be established between the various fields and tables to ensure both data integrity and data interchange performance.

In the example shown in the data center management appliance includes a monitoring interface a filtering engine a reporting engine a consolidation filter database a notification policy database a consolidation filter interface a notification policy interface and a report interface . As shown the consolidation filter interface exchanges configuration information pertaining to consolidation filters with external entities such as the user and the consolidation filter database . The notification policy interface exchanges configuration information relevant to notification policies with external entities and the notification policy database . The reporting interface exchanges alarm reporting information with external entities and the reporting engine .

Continuing the example illustrated in the reporting engine exchanges alarm reporting information with the notification policy database and the reporting interface . In addition the reporting engine exchanges consolidated alarms information with the filtering engine . The filtering engine exchanges consolidation filter information with the consolidation filter database consolidated alarm information with the reporting engine and alarm information with the monitoring interface . The monitoring interface exchanges alarm information with the filtering engine and event information with external event reporting physical infrastructure devices such as UPS and sensor device via the network .

In the example depicted in the consolidation filter database includes elements configured to store and retrieve consolidation filter information. In general this consolidated filter information may include any information that specifies how alarms should be combined into consolidated alarms. According to one example consolidation filter information includes among other information information regarding the consolidation filter itself and information regarding the consolidated alarms produced via the consolidation filter. In this example the information regarding the consolidation filter itself includes among other information a consolidation filter identifier such as a unique number a consolidation filter name a consolidation filter description and one or more alarm types to which the consolidation filter applies. Additionally in this example the information regarding the consolidated alarms generated via the consolidation filter includes among other information a severity for the consolidated alarm one or more recommended responses to the consolidated alarm and one or more potential root causes for the consolidated alarm.

Continuing the example depicted in the notification policy database includes elements configured to store and retrieve notification policy information. In general this notification policy information may include any information that specifies how consolidated alarms should be reported. According to one example notification policy information includes among other information information regarding to the notification policy itself and information regarding the notifications produced via the notification policy. In this example the information about the notification policy itself includes among other information a notification policy identifier such as a unique number a notification policy name a notification policy description and one or more consolidated alarms to which the notification policy applies. Additionally in this example the information regarding the notifications includes the content and format of the notification an identifier of one or more external entities such as a user or external system to whom the consolidated alarm should be sent and a communication method such as an email or inter process communication that should be used to notify the external entity.

The databases and may take the form of any logical construction capable of storing information on a computer readable medium including flat files indexed files hierarchical databases relational databases or object oriented databases. In addition links pointers indicators and other references to data may be stored in place of or in addition to actual copies of the data. The data may be modeled using unique and foreign key relationships and indexes. The unique and foreign key relationships and indexes may be established between the various fields and tables to ensure both data integrity and data interchange performance.

Furthermore the structure and content of each of these various fields and tables depends on the type of data stored therein. Thus in at least one example the data structures and objects used to store the notification policy information differ from the data structures and objects used to store the consolidation policy information. Consequently in this example any process that accesses this data must be specially configured to account for the type of data accessed.

As depicted in the data center management appliance exposes several interfaces to exchange data with external entities. More particularly in the example shown the consolidation filter interface the notification policy interface and the report interface exchange information with the user . Also in the example shown the monitoring interface exchanges information with the sensor and the UPS via the network . In various examples the interfaces and employ a wide variety of technologies user interface elements and interface metaphors to exchange information with external entities such as the user .

In one example the consolidation filter interface includes elements configured to exchange consolidation filter information with the user . More particularly in this example the consolidation filter interface is arranged to allow the user to search create modify delete or otherwise configure consolidation filter information. In addition in this example the consolidation filter interface is arranged to store the consolidation filter information in or retrieve the consolidation filter information from the consolidation filter database .

In another example the notification policy interface includes elements configured to exchange notification policy information with the user . More particularly in this example the notification policy interface is arranged to allow the user to search create modify delete or otherwise configure notification policy information. In addition in this example the notification policy interface is arranged to store the notification policy information in or retrieve the notification policy information from the notification policy database .

In another example the report interface includes elements configured to exchange report information with the reporting engine and one or more external entities. More particularly in the example shown in the report interface is configured to allow the user to search and review report information generated by the reporting engine . This reporting information may include any data pertinent to one or more consolidated alarms triggered by the filtering engine . For instance in one example the reporting interface can allow a user to drill down through consolidated alarms to review the individual alarms that are combined under the consolidated alarms. In addition the reporting interface may exchange report information using a variety of notification conduits such as email HTTP FTP SNMP among others.

Each of the interfaces disclosed herein exchange information with various providers and consumers. These providers and consumers may include any external entity including among other entities users and systems. In addition each of the interfaces disclosed herein may both restrict input to a predefined set of values and validate any information entered prior to using the information or providing the information to other components. Additionally each of the interfaces disclosed herein may validate the identity of an external entity prior to or during interaction with the external entity. These functions may prevent the introduction of erroneous data into the system or unauthorized access to the system.

In the example shown in the monitoring engine includes elements configured to receive event information from the network . As illustrated this event information may be provided by a variety of physical infrastructure devices such as the sensor and the UPS . The monitoring engine is configured to determine if inbound event information warrants triggering one or more alarms and further to transmit information regarding triggered alarms to the filtering engine .

Continuing this example the alarms generated by the monitoring engine can provide a wide range of information. For instance the alarms can indicate internal device errors such as a hard drive being full or failing. In addition alarms can be triggered based on a comparison between one or more threshold values and information transmitted by a sensor. In some cases the one or more threshold values may be specified by an external entity such as a user. Examples of the types of information that a sensor may transmit include airflow information audio information power information such as amps watts voltage and VA dew point humidity information temperature and state information door open closed camera motion detected dry contact open closed etc . The comparisons that can be made between sensor and threshold values include whether the sensor value exceeds the threshold value the sensor value is below the threshold value the sensor value falls between two threshold values the sensor value has changed at rate equal to or greater than the threshold value and for state sensors whether the threshold state equals or does not equal the sensor state. Moreover the comparison may consider the amount of time the tested for relationship persists i.e. whether the relationship has lasted longer than a specified duration.

According to the example in the filtering engine includes elements configured to generate consolidated alarms. More specifically in this example the filtering engine is configured to receive alarm information and to retrieve using the alarm information potentially applicable consolidation filter information from the consolidation filter database . In one example the consolidation filter database is indexed according to alarm type thereby providing efficient access to consolidation filter information associated with one or more types of alarms.

In this example the filtering engine includes elements configured to analyze and apply one or more rules included in the potentially applicable consolidation filters. These rules may define whether or not the consolidation filters apply to given alarms instances and also may define the actions taken to generate consolidated alarms. In one example the rules are stored in the form of logical propositions that evaluate to true or false. The logical propositions may be for example one or more logical implications that may be expressed in the form of X Y of if X then Y . The logical propositions may include one or more logical operators. A non limiting list of the logical operators that may be used in these logical propositions includes and or xor and andnot. The logical propositions may include other operators as well. For instance in one example comparison operators such as and may be used.

According to this example the filtering engine is configured to determine that a consolidation filter applies or does not apply when a particular alarm state exists. An alarm state may be defined as a set of one or more individual alarms having a specified state. Thus in this example a rule to generate a consolidated alarm when a contact door sensor is open for greater than four minutes and the humidity within an enclosure is over 67 may read as follows if alarm.type contact and alarm.duration 4 min. and alarm.type humidity and alarm.value 67 then consolidated alarm.generate close door . In another example a rule to combine into a single consolidated alarm alarms that pertain to a specified time window and that are initiated by members of a particular logical or physical grouping of devices may read as follows if alarm.type comm loss and alarm.group current window.group and alarm1.begin current window.open and alarm.begin

Continuing the example illustrated in the reporting engine includes elements configured to report consolidated alarms. More specifically in this example the reporting engine is configured to receive consolidated alarm information and to retrieve using the consolidated alarm information applicable notification policy information from the notification policy database . In one example the notification policy database is indexed according to consolidated alarm type thereby providing efficient access to notification policy information associated with one or more types of consolidated alarms.

In this example the reporting engine includes elements configured to analyze and apply one or more rules included in the notification policies. These rules may define the actions taken to report consolidated alarms. In one example the rules are stored in the form of logical implications for example if X then Y statements as discussed above with regard to consolidation filters. In this example the reporting engine is configured to use these rules to determine the conduit of communication used to transmit notifications to external entities. According to various examples any conduit through which computers may exchange information may be used. Some such conduits include email FTP HTTP SNMP and many forms of inter process communication such as remote procedure calls and web service calls. In addition according to some examples the reporting engine is configured to report consolidated alarms to a variety of computing platforms such as desktops laptops and mobile computing devices. Thus the reporting engine provides flexible facilities that allow for reporting of consolidated alarms via a variety of communications paths and techniques.

Various examples provide processes for automated filtering and consolidation of the alarms generated from event information received via a network connecting various physical infrastructure devices. illustrates one such process that includes acts of receiving event information filtering alarm information and reporting a consolidated alarm to an external entity. In at least one example in accord with a data center management appliance arranged and configured as the data center management appliance performs acts included process . Process begins at .

In act event information is collected. According to various examples a data center management appliance collects the alarm information via a monitoring engine such as the monitoring engine . Acts in accord with these examples are discussed below with reference to .

In act alarm information is filtered. According to some examples a data center management appliance filters the alarm information via a filtering engine such as the filtering engine . Acts in accord with these examples are discussed below with reference to .

In act consolidated alarm information is reported to an external entity. According to several examples a data center management appliance provides the consolidated alarm information to an external entity via a reporting engine such as the reporting engine . Acts in accord with these examples are discussed below with reference to .

Process ends at . Automated filtering and consolidation processes in accord with process increase the relevance of alarms issued from a data center management appliance. Thus processes like process provide more useful notifications to users than do conventional processes.

As discussed above with regard to act shown in various examples provide processes for receiving event information. illustrates one such process that includes acts of providing an interface receiving event information and storing alarm information. Process begins at .

In act a data center management appliance provides an interface through which the data center management appliance may receive alarm information. In at least one example the data center management appliance performing this action exposes a system interface via a network such as the network to physical infrastructure devices such as the UPS and the sensor . In act a data center management appliance receives event information from one or more physical infrastructure devices via the interface provided in act . In one example the data center management appliance analyzes the event information to determine if the event information warrants issuing an alarm and if so creates alarm information. In act the data center management appliance stores the alarm information in local storage such as such as data storage .

Process ends at . Various examples in accord with the process enable data center management appliances to gather alarm information for later consolidation and reporting.

As discussed above with regard to act shown in various examples provide processes for filtering alarm information to produce consolidated alarms. illustrates one such process that includes acts of reviewing alarms received determining applicable consolidation filters and structuring and generating one or more consolidated alarms. Process begins at

In act a data center management appliance reviews locally stored alarm information and gathers potentially applicable consolidation filters for further analysis. In one example the data center management appliance gathers the potentially applicable consolidation filters from a database such as consolidation filter database . In this example the data center management appliance retrieves the potentially applicable consolidation filters from the database using information included in the stored alarm information.

In act a data center management appliance determines if the potentially applicable consolidation filters actually apply to the reviewed alarm information. In one example the data center management appliance makes this determination by applying rules included within the potentially applicable consolidation filters to the reviewed alarm information. In act the data center management appliance generates consolidated alarms via any consolidation filters that are applicable to the reviewed alarm information and structures and stores the consolidated alarm information in local storage such as such as data storage .

Process ends at . Processes in accord with the process allow a data center management appliance to review filter and consolidate its alarm history into a highly relevant and useful set of consolidated alarms.

As discussed above with regard to act shown in various examples provide processes for a data center management appliance to report consolidated alarms to external entities. illustrates one such process that includes acts of retrieving consolidated alarms from local storage determining notification policies that are applicable to the consolidated alarms and providing the consolidated alarms to external entities according the applicable notification policy. Process begins at .

In act a data center management appliance retrieves consolidated alarms. In one example the data center management appliance retrieves the consolidated alarms from local storage. In act the data center management appliance determines notification policies that apply to the retrieved consolidated alarms. In one example the data center management appliance determines applicable notification policies by querying a notification policy database such as the notification policy database using consolidated alarm information. In act a data center management appliance provides the consolidated alarms to external entities according to the applicable notification policy. In at least one example the data center management appliance provides the consolidated alarms to various users on a variety of computing platforms such as workstations laptops and mobile computing devices.

Process ends at . Upon completion of process a data center management appliance has successfully consolidated individual alarm instances into one or more consolidated alarms thereby increasing the relevance of this alarm information. As discussed above more relevant notifications allow external entities such as data center technicians to more efficiently address potential problems encountered within the data center operating environment.

Each of processes through depicts one particular sequence of acts in a particular example. The acts included in each of these processes may be performed by or using one or more data center management appliances as discussed herein. Some acts are optional and as such may be omitted in accord with one or more examples. Additionally the order of acts can be altered or other acts can be added without departing from the scope of the apparatus and methods discussed herein. In addition as discussed above in at least one example the acts are performed on a particular specially configured machine namely a data center management appliance configured according to the examples disclosed herein.

At milestone the data center management appliance generates and reports as a first consolidated alarm a first alarm that is subject to the implemented consolidation filter. Additionally at milestone the data center management appliance opens the time window . In this example the data center management appliance is configured to maintain time windows of a 90 second duration however examples are not limited to a particular duration.

For instance according to another example a consolidation filter is configured to implement a rolling time window. In this example the time window remains open until the data center management appliance does not generate of an alarm within the alarm group for a specified amount of time. In other examples with a rolling time window the consolidation filter is configured to periodically issue consolidated alarms upon expiration of a specified duration. These periodic notifications ensure that the rolling time window does not inhibit timely reporting of consolidated alarms even if the underlying alarm instances continue for a excessive period of time.

Returning to the example of at milestone the data center management appliance generates a second alarm. At this point no additional notifications are reported but the second alarm is aggregated into the previously reported consolidated alarm. At milestone the data center management appliance generates a third alarm. Again no additional notifications are reported but the third alarm is aggregated into the previously report consolidated alarm. Similarly at milestone the data center management appliance generates additional alarms none of which are reported but each of which is aggregated into the previously reported consolidated alarm. At milestone time window closes and a second consolidated alarm is reported that contains all of the details of each alarm instance that was aggregated into the consolidated alarm. As illustrated by milestone additional alarms that occur outside of the first time window are aggregated under a separate consolidated alarm that is associated with the second time window . By grouping individual alarms under the second consolidated alarm the data center management appliance streamlines the notification process by avoiding repetitious reporting of redundant alarms.

Having now described some illustrative aspects it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the foregoing is merely illustrative and not limiting having been presented by way of example only. Similarly aspects may be used to achieve other objectives. For instance in one example instead of or in addition to reporting consolidated alarms the data center management appliance may take corrective action based on the generation of a consolidated alarm. In another instance examples are used to monitor physical infrastructure devices that reside outside of a data center such as devices in wiring closets point of sale terminals and server rooms. Numerous modifications and other illustrative examples are within the scope of one of ordinary skill in the art and are contemplated as falling within the scope of the apparatus and methods disclosed herein. In particular although many of the examples presented herein involve specific combinations of method acts or system elements it should be understood that those acts and those elements may be combined in other ways to accomplish the same objectives.

