---

title: Multi-modal navigation system and method
abstract: One or more embodiments may include a multi-modal navigation system and method. Route information may be received for generating a navigation route which may comprise multiple modes of transportation to a destination. GPS data may also be received. The navigation route to the destination across the multiple modes of transportation may be determined. The route may be updated as the route is traversed. The navigation route across the multiple modes of transportation may be output based on the GPS data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08731814&OS=08731814&RS=08731814
owner: Ford Global Technologies, LLC
number: 08731814
owner_city: Dearborn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100702
---
Various embodiments relate to navigating a route using multiple modes of transportation. In some embodiments a route is navigated via multiple modes of transportation using a vehicle navigation system and a mobile navigation system.

Various examples exist of tools that provide route information based on travel via multiple modes of transport.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 834 229 issued to Rafiah et al. discloses an integrated journey planner. The integrated journey planner deconstructs user enquiries into information requests each specifying a journey part using a single transport mode e.g. rail car or coach. The planner sends each request to one of a plurality of local and on line databases each corresponding to a different transport mode. Responses from the databases are reconstructed into multi modal travel option s for the user specified journey incorporating different transport modes. The multi modal travel option s incorporates timetable travel information and non timetable travel information. Also a user can specify a geographical location and a transport mode to find the most suitable terminals and services for uni modal point to point travel.

U.S. Application Publication No. 2006 0241857 discloses a navigation system route search server route search method and route search program. A navigation system enables searching for an optimum route through a one time route searching process where several destination or departure locations exist. The navigation system includes a point of interest POI attribute information database for accumulating POI attribute information a network data edit means and a virtual node setup means. The navigation system determines whether there is a plurality of POIs in a certain departure location and or a destination location by making reference to relevant data in the POI attribute information database. If there are several POIs the virtual node setup means sets up a virtual node connected to each node of the plurality of POIs through links having identical link cost. The network data edit means then adds the virtual node to the searching network data and a route search means functions to search for routes using the searching network data containing the added virtual node.

One aspect include a method for route navigation using multiple modes of transportation. Route information may be received for generating a navigation route comprising multiple modes of transportation to a destination. GPS data may also be received. A navigation route to the destination across the multiple modes of transportation may be determined. This route may be updated as the route is traversed. For example and without limitation a routing change may be received and the navigation route for each of the multiple modes of transportation may be determined based on the routing change. The navigation route across the multiple modes of transportation may be output based on the GPS data.

Non route transportation information including but not limited to time information and cost information for multiple transport types may also be received. As such the navigation route may be output based additionally on the non route transportation information.

In some embodiments the navigation route may be output on a first device communicating with a second device. An event defining a change in the mode of transportation such as and without limitation a key off event a gear change event a key on event or a proximity to a transport change location may be received on the first device. Based on the event the navigation route may be output on the second device. The first or second device may be an in vehicle navigation system or a nomadic device.

In some embodiments traveler criteria such as travel time scenic route or ease of travel may be received and the navigation route may be additionally determined based on the traveler criteria.

Another aspect may include a method for route navigation using multiple modes of transport. An input on a first device may be received which defines a destination point. Based on the destination point a navigation route may be determined on the first device which may include instructions for travelling by multiple modes of transport. The navigation route may be output on the first device according to at least one mode of transport. In response to an event defining a change in the mode of transport determining if routing of the navigation route is performed on a second device. The navigation route may be output on the first device or the second device.

In some embodiments route information for each of the multiple modes of transport may be received based on the destination point from multiple transport information sources. These may be publicly available sources. In this case the navigation route may be additionally determined based on the route information from the multiple transport information sources.

The method may also include establishing a data connection with the second device. In this case data representing the navigation route may be transferred to the second device over a data connection such as a BLUETOOTH connection WiFi connection or cellular connection in response to the event and the navigation route output on the second device.

An additional aspect may include a computer program product for routing a navigation route that comprises multiple modes of transport. One or more inputs such as GPS data and or a destination may be received defining data for determining a multi modal navigation route. Additionally transport specific route information and transport specific non route information may be received for two or more modes of transport. The multi modal navigation route may be determined based on the transport specific route information and transport specific non route information and the one or more inputs.

An event defining a change from a first mode of transport to a second mode of transport may be received. The multi modal navigation route may be output for the second mode of transport.

The route information and the non route information may includes but is not limited to timetables cost information map data train line information bus line information traffic information GPS location data road and highway information route corridor information elevation information airline and airport information indoor and or outdoor foot paths and bike paths.

These and other aspects will be better understood in view of the attached drawings and following detailed description of the invention.

Detailed embodiments of the invention are disclosed herein. However it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of an invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. Therefore specific functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for the claims and or as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

In various cities across the world and particularly urban cities using multiple modes of transport to reach a destination is not uncommon. An individual who lives in a suburb but wants to see a museum in the city may take a car train and walk to reach the museum from his or her home. Similarly multiple modes of transport may be used as part of domestic or international travel. For example after a traveler arrives at an arrival port whether it be a train station airport bus station etc. the traveler may need to use at least one additional mode of transport to get to the final destination e.g. a hotel .

When travelling via a single mode of transport a navigation system is a handy tool to use for various reasons. Vehicles and even some mobile phones come equipped with a navigation system to assist the traveler in travelling from one location to another. Mobile phone users can use the phone s navigation system in a vehicle. Alternatively the user can use it when walking to a destination. Among other reasons uni modal navigation systems make travelling more convenient. For example the user inputs a destination address and the navigation system will route the use to the destination via the single mode of transport without further input from the traveler.

However this convenience is lost when the traveler is using multiple modes of transport. The user may have to input multiple destination addresses for each mode of transport before reaching the final destination. Additionally there may be non navigation related information such as timetables train lines etc. that the user may need as part of the multi modal travel which may not be automatically determined as part of the navigation route. Since vehicles and nomadic devices such as mobile phones are equipped to have navigation systems leveraging this functionality to provide multi modal navigation to a traveler would be useful.

In the illustrative embodiment 1 shown in a processor controls at least some portion of the operation of the vehicle based computing system. Provided within the vehicle the processor allows onboard processing of commands and routines. Further the processor is connected to both non persistent and persistent storage . In this illustrative embodiment the non persistent storage is random access memory RAM and the persistent storage is a hard disk drive HDD or flash memory.

The processor is also provided with a number of different inputs allowing the user to interface with the processor. In this illustrative embodiment a microphone an auxiliary input for input a USB input a GPS input and a BLUETOOTH input are all provided. An input selector is also provided to allow a user to swap between various inputs. Input to both the microphone and the auxiliary connector is converted from analog to digital by a converter before being passed to the processor.

Outputs to the system can include but are not limited to a visual display and a speaker or stereo system output. The speaker is connected to an amplifier and receives its signal from the processor through a digital to analog converter . Output can also be made to a remote BLUETOOTH device such as PND or a USB device such as vehicle navigation device along the bi directional data streams shown at and respectively.

In one illustrative embodiment the system uses the BLUETOOTH transceiver to communicate with a user s nomadic device e.g. cell phone smart phone PDA etc. . The nomadic device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower . In some embodiments tower may be a WiFi access point.

Exemplary communication between the nomadic device and the BLUETOOTH transceiver is represented by signal .

Pairing a nomadic device ND and the BLUETOOTH transceiver can be instructed through a button or similar input. Accordingly the CPU is instructed that the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver will be paired with a BLUETOOTH transceiver in a nomadic device.

Data may be communicated between CPU and network utilizing for example a data plan data over voice or DTMF tones associated with nomadic device . Alternatively it may be desirable to include an onboard modem having antenna in order to communicate data between CPU and network over the voice band. The nomadic device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower . In some embodiments the modem may establish communication with the tower for communicating with network . As a non limiting example modem may be a USB cellular modem and communication may be cellular communication.

In one illustrative embodiment the processor is provided with an operating system including an API to communicate with modem application software. The modem application software may access an embedded module or firmware on the BLUETOOTH transceiver to complete wireless communication with a remote BLUETOOTH transceiver such as that found in a nomadic device .

In another embodiment nomadic device includes a modem for voice band or broadband data communication. In the data over voice embodiment a technique known as frequency division multiplexing may be implemented when the owner of the nomadic device can talk over the device while data is being transferred. At other times when the owner is not using the device the data transfer can use the whole bandwidth 300 Hz to 3.4 kHz in one example .

If the user has a data plan associated with the nomadic device it is possible that the data plan allows for broad band transmission and the system could use a much wider bandwidth speeding up data transfer . In still another embodiment nomadic device is replaced with a cellular communication device not shown that is installed to vehicle . In yet another embodiment the ND may be a wireless local area network LAN device capable of communication over for example and without limitation an 802.11g network i.e. WiFi or a WiMax network.

In one embodiment incoming data can be passed through the nomadic device via a data over voice or data plan through the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver and into the vehicle s internal processor . In the case of certain temporary data for example the data can be stored on the HDD or other storage media until such time as the data is no longer needed.

Additional sources that may interface with the vehicle include a personal navigation device having for example a USB connection and or an antenna or a vehicle navigation device having a USB or other connection an onboard GPS device or remote navigation system not shown having connectivity to network .

Further the CPU could be in communication with a variety of other auxiliary devices . These devices can be connected through a wireless or wired connection. Also or alternatively the CPU could be connected to a vehicle based wireless router using for example a WiFi 71 transceiver. This could allow the CPU to connect to remote networks in range of the local router .

The routing engine may include instructions for outputting the navigation route as speech via a text to speech TTS engine graphical illustration and or text. The routing engine may communicate with a separate engine such as and without limitation a TTS engine or display engine on the VCS for outputting the multi modal route. Additionally the routing engine may include or communicate with a geocoding engine for resolving GPS data into a user comprehendible form.

The routing engine may be implemented on the VCS and communicate data with the vehicle navigation device or the PND . Data exchange between the routing engine and the VCS may be bi directional. Additionally or alternatively the routing engine may be implemented on a remote server which may be at cloud and function as a cloud based service. Data exchange between the routing engine and the server may also be bi directional. In this embodiment the routing engine may determine the navigation route and transmit the route to the VCS for output to a vehicle occupant. Data communicated to the VCS may be communicated through wired e.g. and without limitation USB or wireless e.g. and without limitation WiFi communication as described above. In one embodiment the cloud may comprise a service delivery network.

As described above a nomadic device may communicate with the VCS . When disconnected from the VCS the ND may be used to navigate non vehicle multi modal routes. As such the ND may also have installed a multi modal routing engine . This multi modal routing engine may be installed by a user to the ND from the Internet such as from a mobile application store or a website or via physical mediums such as a USB drive. The ND may include the necessary tools known in the art for navigating a route such as a GPS system .

The routing engine may exchange data and instructions to the ND via an application programming interface API . APIs may be implemented on the VCS the NDS or both. Additionally data may be transmitted using a general transport protocol. In one embodiment the general transport protocol may facilitate the exchange of data with NDs having different communication protocols.

Navigation route information transferred between the VCS and the ND to navigate a multi modal route e.g. vehicle and foot may be based on the detection of a transport change event. A transport change event may be an occurrence that identifies a change in a mode of transport. Examples may include but are not limited to vehicle based events including but not limited to key off key on and a gear change a connection event between a VCS and the ND a user input event and a GPS location of a GPS enabled device e.g. a mobile phone or vehicle navigation system . The following illustrations provide further details of these examples. It will be appreciated that these example are non limiting non exhaustive and provided for illustration. Further it will be appreciated that the transport change events may occur in combination or individually. Details of determining calculating a navigation route is described with respect to .

A route to a destination requires that a user also referred to herein as a traveler travel by car and foot. The portion of the route that can be travelled by car is navigated by the driver with the in vehicle navigation system. The in vehicle navigation system may be built in or may be a peripheral. At a key off event the data representing the navigation route is transmitted to the driver s mobile phone. The user may then continue to navigate the route by foot with the mobile phone.

The user from the above example heading home uses the mobile phone s navigation system to walk to the vehicle. After connecting the phone to the VCS at a key on event the navigation route is transmitted to the navigation device or of the VCS and output to the user. Alternatively at a connection event such as when a connection is established with the VCS via a wired or wireless connection the navigation route may be transmitted to the VCS . In yet an alternative embodiment the navigation route may be transmitted to the VCS at a gear change event e.g. and without limitation changing from Park to Drive . One or more messages may be transmitted over the vehicle network such as and without limitation a CAN bus for outputting the navigation route from the phone to the VCS .

A user input event may include a tactile input such as and without limitation a touchscreen input a button press a keypad press or a capacitive input and or a voice input. As an example a route to a destination requires that a user travel by car bus train and foot. The portion of the route that can be travelled by car is navigated by the driver with the in vehicle navigation system. At the user input event the data representing the navigation route may be transmitted to the driver s mobile phone.

The user may then continue to navigate the route with the mobile phone. At each additional mode of transport bus train and foot the user may submit the user input to navigate the route by each additional mode of transport. For example if the navigation route says to ride Bus X and Bus Y to reach the train station a user input event may be received on the mobile phone when the traveler rides Bus X signifying that the user is riding Bus X. The navigation route on the mobile phone may then display the additional modes of transport e.g. Bus Y one or more train numbers and or walking directions . In some embodiments additional information may be shown including but not limited to distance information timetables and fare costs .

On return to the vehicle the user may submit a user input to signal that the user is in the vehicle and to run the vehicle based navigation route in the vehicle.

There may be one or more ways of determining a transport change event based on GPS location information. As one example on return to the vehicle from the above example when the user is dropped off at the Bus X drop off point a comparison may be made between the current GPS location e.g. based on coordinates of the user or a pick up point signifying the starting point for the additional mode of transport or the final destination and the ending GPS location of the vehicle or the last mode of transport . A look up table may include the GPS coordinates of each location. The look up table may be created dynamically when the multi modal route is generated. If a comparison shows a match or near match in GPS locations e.g. between the drop off point and the pick up point the match or near match may be recognized and the directions relating to the next mode of transport presented to the user.

As another example when the vehicle is within a certain distance or proximity from the Bus X pick up point a background transfer of the multi modal navigation route to the mobile device may occur. Thus the routing engine may use the GPS location data to determine the distance which may include elevation information to the next mode of transport and when a distance threshold is reached or passed the navigation route may be transferred from one device to another. If the transfer is from an in vehicle navigation system to a ND the transfer may be made to any vehicle occupant s phone that is connected to the VCS . At or near the Bus X pick up point the navigation route may be automatically presented to the user on the ND and run in parallel on both devices. Alternatively the Bus X navigation route may be transferred and or presented in response to a user input e.g. in response to a request from the routing engine whether to transfer and or present the new route on the ND .

Referring back to routing engine may use information from one or more transport information sources to generate the multi modal navigation routes. The transport information sources may correspond to the one or more modes of transport. The transport information sources may additionally or alternatively include information such as weather elevation information and the like. The information sources may be public websites or other publicly available sources . The publicly available source may or may not require a subscription to access the information.

Transportation information may be route information and non route information utilized in determining the navigation route. Non limiting examples of transportation information include but are not limited to timetables and schedules price of fares price of tolls map data train line information bus line information traffic information GPS location data road and highway information route corridor information elevation information airline and airport information indoor and or outdoor foot paths bike paths and bike lanes and the like. As such communication lines and may be direct links to the websites via the Internet.

In some embodiments the information sources may be one or more databases that store the transportation information. In this case communication and may be any wired or wireless communication with databases that are known in the art. The databases may be in communication with the public websites to receive updates. Alternatively or additionally the databases may be updated manually.

It will be appreciated that the various embodiments described herein may be used during an actual live navigation event. Alternatively the various embodiments can be used in a testing environment e.g. during simulation of a navigation event .

One or more points of travel may be received as illustrated in block . The point s of travel may be received as a destination point. The destination point may be received as an address point of interest intersection city center and the like. In this embodiment the starting address may be automatically determined based on a GPS location of the user. Alternatively a departing point of travel and a destination point of travel may be input. The point s of travel may be input using tactile inputs e.g. on a touch screen display and or voice inputs.

Multi modal navigation may be automatically activated when a navigation system is run. As such the user may be presented with an option to receive a uni modal route or a multi modal route. A user may select an option through tactile and or voice inputs. Alternatively a user may have to separately activate a multi modal navigation system or application. In this embodiment the multi modal navigation system can still operate as a uni modal navigation system.

Accordingly a determination may be made whether a route based on the point s of travel includes a multi modal navigation route block . If not a transport information request may be transmitted to a single information source or block . Otherwise the transport information request may be transmitted to multiple information sources block . In one embodiment the traveler may select the modes of transport to utilize. In this embodiment the transport information request may be transmitted to the selected modes of transport.

The transport information request may include instructions or information for obtaining transportation information used by routing engine for determining a navigation route. These instructions or information may include but not limited to data pertaining to the point s of travel the traveler s GPS location or both. In some embodiments the transportation information request may additionally include a user s travel criteria described below .

The transportation information may be received at the routing engine from the information resource s as illustrated in block . The transportation information may be received based on the transportation information request. Non exhaustive and non limiting examples of transportation information are provided above. As an example a user with a vehicle having a solar panel roof may want a route that maximizes time in the sun. Accordingly the traveler s destination address and a travel criterion such as optimize route for angle of sun may be transmitted to the transportation information sources. The routing engine may then receive information from the transportation information sources providing a multi modal route with the transportation information and the weather information.

The navigation route may be determined calculated by the routing engine block . The routing engine may have at least one algorithm for determining a navigation route. illustrate algorithms for determining a multi modal navigation route. However it will be appreciated that at least some of the operation illustrated in may alternatively or additionally be applied in a navigation route determination for a single mode of transport i.e. a uni modal navigation route .

The route information received may be used to generate a navigation route for each mode of transport when the transportation information is received from the transport information source s block . One or more navigation routes may be generated for each transport type block . For example the routing engine may generate route s for each of vehicle train foot airplane and or bus. In one embodiment each route may be generated at the information source s and the routing engine may optimize these routes as described below.

Each route may be optimized. Optimization of the route may be based on a traveler s travel criteria. Traveler criteria may include but are not limited to travel time scenic route safe route city route and ease of travel e.g. and without limitation avoiding complicated road routes avoiding too many train bus and airplane transfers etc. . The traveler may input the traveler criteria when entering the point s of travel. In some embodiments the traveler may input the traveler criteria at any time. As such if the multi modal route has already been generated the route may be updated based on the traveler criteria. In further embodiments if the user does not enter traveler criteria a default criterion may be assigned by the routing engine e.g. easiest route . In yet further embodiments the determination in block may not occur such that the transport specific route is always optimized because the route s are generated based on the traveler criteria.

If a determination is made that the route for each transport type does not account for traveler criteria block the route may be re routed for each transport type block until each route is optimized based on the traveler criteria. Once complete each transport specific route may be compared by the routing engine block .

Based on the comparison a determination may be made whether there is only a single mode of transport for a portion of the route block . For example for certain portions of the route the traveler may only be able to travel by car foot or airplane. If so the single mode of transport is assigned to the portion s of the route capable of being traveled only be that single mode of transport block . The uni modal portions of the route may be stored in memory of the VCS block .

For the portions of the route having multiple transport type options block the routing engine may identify the available modes of transport block . Non route information may be used to filter the routes for the different modes of transport block . The routes may be filtered based on the non route information block . Further the filtering process may be performed with respect to the traveler criteria described above. Non limiting and non exhaustive examples of non route information are provided above. In one embodiment the non route information may alternatively be used as part of the optimization process block .

In one embodiment the filtering process may be based on a ranking. For example and without limitation the routes may be ranked based on time cost distance difficulty of travel etc. determined from the non route information for each transport type. The ranking information may be preprogrammed to the routine engine.

The multi modal route is generated as illustrated in block . As a part of generating the multi modal route the partial routes assigned with the single mode of transport block may be received by the routing engine . The multi modal route may then be transmitted and presented to the traveler block . The route may be presented visually including text and or graphics and or audibly.

The route information received from the information source s may be received with the various options for each transport type block . For each mode of transport the routing algorithm may combine at least one option for one mode of transport with another option for another mode of transport block . For some routes there may be one option for a segment of the route. The routing algorithm may also generate one or more different combinations of routing possibilities for each transport type based on the various options block . Thus there may be multiple multi modal routes for the traveler to take in reaching a destination.

A determination may be made whether the multiple multi modal navigation options are optimized for the traveler block . Non route information may be used to filter or optimize the navigation route s combinations options according to traveler criteria block . This may include the ranking process described above. The multi modal route may be generated as illustrated in block for transmission and presentation to the user block . The presentation may be textual graphical and or audible. The route may be transmitted in one or more forms including but not limited to an electronic mail message an SMS text message graphical images speech based messages and the like.

Referring back to the multi modal navigation route is presented to the traveler block . At a point while routing the traveler along the navigation route block the routing engine may determine if a transport change event has occurred block . Examples of transport change events are provided above. In one embodiment there may be a software application installed on the VCS that may make the determination.

At least part of the routing may be based on the GPS position of the GPS enabled device i.e. the VCS or the nomadic device . For example GPS data may be used for routing along a vehicle based route and a foot path but not when on a train and a bus. As such detours and route changes by the traveler may be determined. The navigation route may be re routed based on the route change. It will be appreciated that this example is for illustration and that GPS data may be utilized in any or all segments of the multi modal navigation route without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

If there is a navigation route change transportation information may be updated based on the changes in the navigation route. The content of the information sources and may be dynamic such that the routing engine may receive updated information from the information source s when there is a routing change. This may include receiving both route transportation information and non route transportation information. Accordingly routing engine may monitor if a detour from the multi modal navigation route causes a change in the non route information. As an example a detour by a traveler may cause the traveler to miss the given train time. As such the routing engine may then provide the traveler with the next available time. It will be appreciated that the updating process may be performed by a separate engine communicating with the routing engine .

At the transport change event the device that presents the navigation route to the traveler may change between two or more devices. For example the display may move from display to a display of the ND . If there is no transport change event there may not be a device change block . As such routing of the multi modal navigation route may continue on the same device where the point s of travel was entered or the navigation route began.

If there is a transport change event a further determination may be made whether a second device is detected block . The navigation route may be presented on this second device if there is a transport change event. If there is not a second device there may not be a device change and routing of the navigation route may continue for the new mode of transport on the same device.

If there is a second device the navigation route may be transmitted to the second device block . The navigation route may be presented to the traveler and routing of the navigation route accomplished block from this second device. The presentation may be visual and or audible. The route may be transmitted in one or more forms including but not limited to an electronic mail message an SMS text message graphical images speech based messages and the like. The navigation route may be transmitted to the second device through wired e.g. and without limitation USB or wireless communication e.g. and without limitation BLUETOOTH WiFi cellular or data over voice .

In some embodiments the navigation route may be transmitted to a portable memory device including but not limited to a USB drive a memory stick a secure digital SD card a compact flash CF card and the like. In this embodiment the portable memory device may store the navigation route. When the portable memory device is connected to a memory device reader the route may be transmitted to the device e.g. and without limitation a nomadic device or the VCS .

While exemplary embodiments are illustrated and described above it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possibilities. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

