---

title: Method and system for specialty imaging effect generation using multiple layers in documents
abstract: A computer-implemented system and method for generating specialty imaging effects from layered documents are provided. The method includes providing a layered document that contains one or more effect layers and one or more visual layers. For each visual layer, the method includes identifying visual graphical elements within the visual layer. For each of the visual graphical elements, the method identifies, as a next effect layer, a closest effect layer above the visual layer which includes an effect graphical element that overlaps, at least in part, the identified visual graphical element. A new graphical element is created by merging at least part of the identified visual graphical element with at least part of the overlapping effect graphical element. The merging may be performed with regular specialty imaging techniques. The input layered document is transformed by replacing the identified visual graphical element on the visual layer with the new graphical element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892995&OS=08892995&RS=08892995
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08892995
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100202
---
The exemplary embodiments relate to a method and system for specialty imaging effect generation using multiple layers in documents. In particular a document or file is composed of multiple layers which are used to separate different elements of the document. The layers are stacked on top of each other and depending on the order determine the appearance of the final document.

Specialty imaging technology that creates effects on printed documents has been developed. Examples of specialty imaging effects include Xerox s GlossMark printing GM in which text or an image is printed in a way that the content is not visible in straight on view but becomes visible as gloss under inclined illumination infrared IR marking for marks which are only visible with an IR camera under illumination with IR light ultra violet UV marks which are visible when illuminated with UV light and correlation marks CO which are visible with specific transparency grids. These techniques rely entirely on software and are available as add ons for work flow management products and the like. Some of these products are dedicated to text elements with the usage of specific fonts or patterns and some other products to graphic elements with a dedicated user interface.

The management of layers within a document is very well known in graphical design applications and is feasible with tools such as Adobe Photoshop technology. With this tool a graphical designer can manipulate layers to obtain specific visual effects on the overall visual depiction by manipulating the overlapping properties of individual graphical elements such as text or images . These effects are obtained by the combination of several layer features including the alignment of layer elements in which every element should positioned in relation to the other layer elements in order to provide the expected visual aspect the properties of each layer such as opacity in order to see the layers underneath and the blending mode which describes how layers interact with layers below them like layer pixel subtraction or multiplication in order to create a specific effect. For example two individual layers may be combined with each layer containing a single image such as a scenic image and a border image. When the layers are combined to form a new layer the resulting layer contains an image that resembles the images in both individual layers.

To create such an effect entails manual set up of the properties by a user. It is possible to write scripts that can manage the content of each layer automatically according to the content of the layer. For example one Adobe Photoshop script is entitled Automatic layer alignment and blending. With this script a graphical designer can use a stack of photos of the same view from the same viewpoint where each picture has a random disruptive element such as tourists in front of monument. With this stack of photos the script searches for every visual photo region that is not present on the majority of layers and hides them. The resulting output from the script is a full picture of the monument without any tourists.

Another layer manipulation tool is Xerox s HighLight Color system which uses PDF layers to represent a document. The goal of this technology is to highlight specific words in a print ready file by coloring its bounding box background. Words are found automatically and classified according to their grammatical and semantic type. Each type is represented by a specific color. In order to avoid overlapping of different colors when a word has several types and to give a high level of freedom to the end user each type is painted on a specific layer. After the conversion from regular print ready file into a color highlighted PDF the end user has the possibility to make each layer visible or invisible in order to highlight specific word types.

The layers in the HighLight Color system are used for visual impact but the creation of these layers is completely automatic and requires alignment between them. Each highlighting layer has to be well aligned with the text layer in order to give the impression of word highlighting.

In present systems the actual usage of layers in a document is passive. The layers provide useful visual feedback as soon as they are set and parameterized but they do not drive other instructions for later processing. These software packages are dedicated to specific usages text or graphics and work mainly as independent applications with difficult learning curves. Typically the designer has to switch between different applications by manually extracting the part of the document he wants to process and by incorporating it back into the original document. This is time consuming and inefficient.

The following references the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference are mentioned 

The following relate generally to differential gloss U.S. Pat. No. 7 092 128 entitled APPLICATION OF GLOSSMARKS FOR GRAPHICS ENHANCEMENT by Wang et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 126 721 entitled PROTECTING PRINTED ITEMS INTENDED FOR PUBLIC EXCHANGE WITH GLOSSMARKS by Wang et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 148 999 entitled VARIABLE GLOSSMARK by Xu et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 324 241 entitled VARIABLE DATA DIFFERENTIAL GLOSS IMAGES by Eschbach et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 352 493 entitled ENHANCEMENT OF GLOSSMARK IMAGES AT LOW AND HIGH DENSITIES by Liu et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 391 537 entitled USER INTERFACE FOR DIFFERENTIAL GLOSS IMAGES by Eschbach et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 589 865 entitled VARIABLE DIFFERENTIAL GLOSS FONT IMAGE DATA by Eschbach et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 580 153 entitled PRINTED VISIBLE FONTS WITH ATTENDANT BACKGROUND by Eschbach et al.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 593 138 entitled SPECIAL EFFECTS ACHIEVED BY SETOVERPRINT SETOVERPRINTMODE AND MANIPULATING OBJECT OPTIMIZE RENDERING OOR TAGS AND COLORS by Barnes discloses a method carried out in a printing system for creating special effects including GlossMarks and watermarks for use in rendered documents comprising the steps of a using an interpreter to determine parameters for a special effect b overlaying the object parameters for the special effect over original objects of a document c flattening object parameters for the special effect and original objects of a document by addressing topmost objects first to produce runs with intent tags d introducing intents or altered colors for use with special effects e collecting runs and f rendering runs with intent tags.

In one aspect a computer implemented method for generating specialty imaging effects from layered documents is provided. The method includes providing a layered document to computer memory. The layered document includes layers designated as effect layers and layers designated as visual layers. For at least one page in the input layered document at least one visual layer is identified. For each of the at least one identified visual layer at least one visual graphical element within the at least one identified visual layer are identified. For each of the at least one identified visual graphical element contained in a visual layer the method includes identifying at least one effect graphical element on an effect layer above the visual layer that overlaps at least in part the identified visual graphical element creating a new graphical element by combining at least part of the identified visual graphical element with at least part of the at least one identified overlapping effect graphical element. One or more of these steps may be performed with a computer processor. The input layered document is transformed by replacing the identified visual graphical element on the visual layer with the new graphical element. The transformed document is output.

In another aspect a storage medium containing in a computer readable form a layered document is provided. The layered document includes at least one page. Each of the at least one page includes a plurality of layers. Each of the plurality of layers is designated as either an effect layer or a visual layer depending on the presence of a predefined prefix on a layer property value that corresponds to a specialty imaging effect.

In yet another aspect a computer based system for generating specialty imaging effects from layered documents is provided. The system includes computer memory which stores a layered document which includes layers designated as effect layers and layers designated as visual layers. A specialty imaging converter includes a conversion module. The conversion module is configured to perform the following for at least one page in the layered document identifying at least one visual layer. For each at least one identified visual layer the module is configured for identifying at least one visual graphical element within the at least one identified visual layer. For each of the at least one identified graphical element in the visual layer. the module is configured for identifying at least one effect graphical element on an effect layer above the visual layer that overlaps at least in part the identified visual graphical element where the distance between the layer overlay positions of the visual layer and effect layer are minimal creating a new graphical element by combining at least part of the identified visual graphical element with at least part of the at least one identified overlapping effect graphical element and transforming the layered document by replacing the identified visual graphical element on the visual layer with the new graphical element. A computer processor in communication with the memory implements the conversion module.

Aspects of the present exemplary embodiment relate to a system and method for generating specialty imaging effects from a layered document and to a document created thereby. The exemplary method and system receive as input a layered document which may have been created by a document designer or other user. The layered document may be created with any conventional software tool that produces layered documents. The layered document is then processed such that it becomes a file ready for printing on a specialty imaging effect printer.

The methods and systems are also easy to use since the user may use any creative tool which is able to export a layered file while respecting the effect layer name syntax. With variable layers images graphics and text the number of possibilities for specialty imaging effects are immense. This is an advantage in terms of aesthetic aspects of a document as well as from a security standpoint where the combination of specialty imaging elements and the variability of the data valuable.

In various aspects the exemplary method and system can avoid causing the user to learn how to use a new application as the exemplary embodiments depend entirely on a layered document structure. By using a user elected desktop publishing or graphics editing software the user may integrate specialty imaging effects as easily as any other graphical effect. With this freedom limitations on text or other graphical element effects are avoided. Additionally the ability to provide specialty imaging need no longer be image centric but rather can be page and or document centric meaning that the same complete effect can be applied on several images or text elements.

The exemplary methods and systems presented herein may be used to create specialty imaging text and other graphical element effects at the same time. With respect to specialty imaging text the exemplary embodiments do not need to use or create a specialty imaging font in order to implement the specialty imaging text.

As used herein a graphical element includes any element on a document that is capable of being printed and includes but is not limited to text and images wherein images include vector and raster based graphics. For example graphical elements may include text in any font raster images icons or images in any format such as JPEG portable network graphics PNG graphics interchange format GIF bitmap BMP etc vector graphics in any format such as scalable vector graphics SVG and vector markup language VML . A visual graphical element is a graphical element on a visual layer of a layered document. A visual layer may include one or more visual graphical elements. An effect graphical element is a graphical element on an effect layer of a layered document. An effect layer generally includes only one effect graphical elements.

One aspect of the present exemplary embodiment converts a multiple layered document input in a suitable format such as PDF or XPS file s into a Specialty Imaging SI file which may be a print ready file. When the SI file is rendered a printed document which contains special print effects is generated. For example the SI file may contain images that are only visible under a special light or camera or under a specific angle of illumination. The graphical information describing how to apply such effects is drawn on specific layers by the document designer before the SI file is created.

Another aspect of the exemplary embodiment allows designers to create documents with specialty imaging effects independently of the desktop publishing DTP tool they use. Designers are able to extend their creativity without changing their habits. This can avoid the learning curve common to the use of many current specialty imaging creation software.

Another advantage of the exemplary method and system is the multiplicity of effects that the document designer may implement with these specialty imaging techniques. Specialty imaging effects can be applied on both text and images. A single imaging effect may be applied individually or simultaneously on a set of text and images. Additionally variable data printing software may be used to change the content of the layers according to information extracted from a database. The resulting layered document is then sent to a designated print server or printer and each page of the document can be printed with different text or graphical specialty imaging effects.

Another aspect of the exemplary embodiment gives the designer the opportunity to create specialty imaging effects without any content type limitations text graphics or images with his preferred creative application as long as it is able to produce multi layered documents.

To be able to transform a layered document into a print ready file containing specialty imaging effects in one aspect the exemplary method analyzes the entire input file converts all concerned graphical elements using the specialty imaging effects processor and optimizes the resulted file.

The input document to be processed by the exemplary method and system is a layered file which contains two types of layers. Alternatively the layers may be received as separate files. The first type of layer visual layer represents a visual aspect of a page in the document. The second type of layer effect layer represents the specialty imaging effect to be applied to one or more visual layers on a page in the document. In general an effect layer cannot serve as a visual layer and vice versa. Visual layers and effect layers are distinguishable by the system for example by their names or some other user definable property value on the layer. Effect layer names can have a specific identifier e.g. a prefix or suffix that defines the intended effect. The identifiers may include for example GM for glossmark CO for correlation marks IR for infrared marks and UV for ultraviolet marks or other alphanumeric identifiers. In general an effect layer serves to modify an associated visual layer or layers.

A glossmark effect layer contains graphical elements that when processed by the exemplary embodiments and printed on a specialty imaging printer are not visible in straight on view but become visible as gloss under inclined illumination.

A correlation mark effect layer contains graphical elements that when processed by the exemplary embodiments and printed on a specialty imaging printer are not visible unless the printed document is superimposed by a key transparency.

Some effect layers such as ultraviolet mark and infrared mark contain graphical elements that when processed by the exemplary embodiments and printed on a specialty imaging printer are detectable visually or otherwise only under electromagnetic radiation of a specific wavelength or wavelength range which is outside of the visible light region of the spectrum. For instance ultraviolet mark and infrared mark effect layers are printed with a chemical that fluoresces or otherwise makes the effect detectable under ultraviolet and infrared radiation respectively.

The effect layers used herein are not limited to the specialty imaging effects listed above. Any specialty imaging effect that is manageable via layer overlays and capable of being rendered by a specialty imaging printer may be associated with an effect layer.

For example an effect layer name starts with the prefix CO in order to indicate that it contains one or more correlation marks. The list of recognized prefixes may be preset according to the capabilities of the specialty imaging processor. In the alternative the list of recognized prefixes may be adjusted according to other criteria including user defined preferences.

As will be appreciated document may include any number of effect layers such as 1 2 3 or more effect layers each associated with at least one of the visual layer s . Additionally each layered document may include one or more pages at least one of the pages being multilayered having more than one layer . One or more of the pages of the layered document may be monolayered e.g. have only a visual layer.

Additionally information on the layer order is provided. This implicitly gives instructions to the exemplary system describing how to apply the effect. The same document with another layer order may produce a different result. In the illustrated embodiment visual layers are associated with subsequent effect layers and which modify them both. Visual layer is the top layer and is thus not modified by any subsequent effect layer s .

The output of the exemplary embodiments is a transformed document e.g. a print ready file. The file may be any printable file including for example a PDF or Postscript file where effect layers have been applied to graphical elements contained in the visual layer s . In this way a device capable of printing the specialty imaging effects can directly produce the expected specialty imaging marks that were defined by the effect layers.

The system includes data memory for storing a layered document during processing. Main memory of the system stores an analyzation module that receives the input layered document and identifies and renders effect layers within the document . The conversion module traverses through the layered file and merges images on visual layers with information from an overlapping effect graphical elements on the closest effect layer above the visual layer. The optimization module optimizes the modified layered document prepared by the conversion module for use by a specialty imaging printer . The modules may be implemented as hardware or software or a combination thereof. In the exemplary embodiment the analyzation module conversion module and optimization module comprise software instructions stored in main memory which are executed by a computer processor . The software components are configured for processing layered documents . The processor such as the computer s CPU may control the overall operation of the computer system by execution of processing instructions stored in memory . Components of the system may be connected by a data control bus .

The system also includes an input output device which may be the same or separate from the input device which outputs the transformed document to an output device such as a specialty imaging printer or to a memory storage system and or to a raster imaging processor RIP which may be a part of the printer . The input output device or may also accept a layered document via a user terminal operated by a document designer over the network . The input output device is linked by a wired or wireless link or the network to one or more of the specialty imaging printer storage system and RIP .

As will be appreciated the specialty imaging converter system may be hosted by or include one or more computing devices such as a personal computer PDA laptop computer server computer or combination thereof. Memories may be integral or separate and may represent any type of tangible computer readable medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic disk or tape optical disk flash memory or holographic memory. In one embodiment the memories comprise a combination of random access memory and read only memory. In some embodiments the processor and memory and or may be combined in a single chip.

At S a layered document is provided to the specialty imaging system via an input device if it has not already been created and or stored in the system .

At S the analyzation module receives the input layered document and identifies and renders effect layers within the document . The module then outputs the document to the conversion module . The analyzation step is described in more detail with respect to .

At S the conversion module traverses through the layered document and merges images on visual layers with an overlapping effect graphical element s on the closest effect layer above the visual layer in a manner compatible with the specialty imaging printer to be used. After one or more images or other graphical elements from a visual layer are merged with one or more images or other graphical elements of an effect layer a single layer is produced that contains both the graphical elements of the visual layer along with information from the overlapping graphical element s in the effect layer in a manner such that a specialty imaging printer may process i.e. print the merged layer properly. At a high level this step traverses the layered document produced by S and identifies graphical elements which are not contained in any effect layer i.e. visual graphical elements from visual layers are identified. For each graphical element found horizontal and vertical positions are detected as well as the width and height. The page and overlay position of the layer are also inferred. Using these parameters the conversion module crops each effect image or other graphical element identified at step S at the same place and size relative to the visual layer as the visual layer graphical elements identified above from the closest effect graphical element above the visual layer to the farthest one in order to find the first effect image cropped part which has graphical information overlapping the visual graphical element. This step is described in more detail with respect to FIG. . The output of S is a transformed document that is optionally output to the optimization module .

At S the optimization module optimizes the transformed layered document prepared by the conversion module for use by a specialty imaging printer . The modified layered document is transformed into a print ready file. This step is described in more detail with respect to .

At S the special imaging converter system outputs the print ready file e.g. to memory the specialty imaging printer the RIP .

At S the analyzation module identifies all of the effect layers for each page of the layered document . The effect layers are recognized in the exemplary embodiment by their prefix name as discussed above. At S the analyzation module renders each identified effect layer in the document such that the graphical elements on the effect layer meet the specialty imaging SI processor requirements. These requirements vary from system to system and may depend on the SI printer and design application being used and include for example a dpi requirement and a color space requirement. For example the SI processor may be configured for utilizing a 600 dpi black and white effect image. After this step is performed each identified effect layer will thus contain rendered effect graphical elements.

At S the analyzation module stores the rendered effect graphical elements from step S along with their location information such as their position width height page number and layer overlay position and effect type in memory for later use. After this is complete processing control is then passed to S.

At S the conversion module identifies all visual layers for a current page in the input layered document . The term current page refers to the page currently being processed by the method.

At S the conversion module identifies all graphical elements for the current visual layer identified at S. The term current visual layer refers to the visual layer currently being processed by the method with each visual layer being processed in the specified layer order.

At S the conversion module detects the horizontal position vertical position width height page number and layer overlay position for each identified graphical element identified at S.

At S the conversion module stores the detected information from S optionally along with the graphical elements in memory for later use.

At S the conversion module identifies any effect graphical elements stored on the next closest effect layer above the current visual layer. The term above refers to layers that are positioned closer to the top last layer than the current layer. The term next closest effect layer refers to the closest effect layer above the current visual layer that has not been processed with respect to the current visual layer. For example during a first iteration if the current visual graphical element being processed is the graphical element on layer of then the current visual layer being processed is layer and the next closest effect layer above the current visual layer is layer . If a next iteration is performed then the next closest effect layer to visual layer would be and so forth. In order to increase efficiency this step may utilize the data that was stored at steps S and S.

At S the conversion module crops each identified effect graphical element and at the same place and size with respect to the current visual layer as the current visual graphical element. illustrates this process with respect to visual layer and effect layers of . The current visual graphical element of visual layer is bounded by points p p p p. For the first iteration of S with respect to visual layer the next closest effect layer is which contains a graphical element a logo at the top of the layer. The effect graphical element is cropped to an area bounded by points p p p p since this is the same bounding block of the visual graphical element to generate an effect graphical element candidate . As will be appreciated if the effect graphical element is smaller than the corresponding visual graphical element and entirely bounded by points p p p and p no cropping of the effect graphical element is needed to generate an effect graphical element candidate . If a next iteration is to be performed then the next time step S is performed with respect to visual layer the effect graphical element on effect layer will be cropped to an area bounded by p p p and p.

At S the conversion module determines whether any of the cropped effect graphical element candidates identified at S contains any graphical information. Graphical information is present when the cropped area of the effect graphical element candidate is not entirely a same color where color includes white and black i.e. has variations in color for at least some of the pixels in the cropped area. If graphical information is present within the cropped area then the entire effect graphical element will be used at step S. Alternatively the cropped part of the effect graphical element may be used at step S.

With reference to the example presented above in the first effect graphical element candidate is the area on effect layer bounded by points p p p p. However since this effect graphical element candidate contains only a single uniform color it is discarded. In the next iteration the conversion module considers whether the effect graphical element candidate on effect layer contains graphical information. In this case because the effect graphical element candidate does not contain only a same color but includes variations in color it contains a second logo it will be identified as a cropped effect graphical element that contains graphical information.

At S if one or more cropped effect graphical elements such as were identified that contain graphical information in step S then the method proceeds to S. Else the method proceeds to S.

At S the conversion module creates a new graphical element by combining merging the identified optionally cropped effect graphical element with the current visual graphical element . To do this the conversion module starts by extracting the content of the current visual graphical element or rendering the visual graphical element and converting the current visual graphical element to a modified visual graphical element in a format that meets the specialty imaging processor requirements. For example if a GlossMark is used to create the specialty imaging effect then the extracted graphical element is converted to an appropriate image resolution e.g. 600 dpi and the color space of the graphical element such as may be changed to an appropriate color space e.g. CMYK if not already in this format. The modified graphical element is then created by performing a specialty imaging transformation on the optionally converted graphical element with its corresponding optionally cropped effect graphical element part . This specialty imaging transformation may include but is not limited to merging the optionally cropped effect graphical element into the converted graphical element. provides an illustration of this process. Graphical element is the extracted visual image after it has been converted to meet the specialty imaging processor requirements and corresponds to the graphical element of . Item is the cropped effect graphical element that corresponds to the effect graphical element of . After graphical elements and are obtained a new graphical element is created by merging the effect graphical element part into the converted visual graphical element . I.e. the effect graphical element part and the converted visual graphical element are grouped together and merged to create a unique graphical element which may be processed by an SI processor. The modified graphical element is then used at step S.

For example for creating different halftones of the background image according to the effect layer image for a Glossmark effect any black region enforces a first anisotropic halftone for the corresponding pixels of the background image and any white region of the effect layer enforces a second anisotropic halftone for the corresponding pixels of the background image. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 148 999 incorporated herein by reference for further details on Glossmarking . For a correlation mark effect halftones for the background image are selected according to the effect layer image for creating the correlation mark effect. Specifically black regions of the effect layer enforce grid readable halftones for corresponding pixels of the background image in the visual layer and white regions of the effect layer enforce regular halftones for the corresponding pixels of the background image in the visual layer. For UV and IR effect layers this slightly changes a color of corresponding pixel of the background image according to the effect layer image. Specifically black pixels of the effect layer enforce a corresponding UV or IR color for corresponding background image pixels changes which are only visible under UV or IR light while white pixels of the effect layer maintain the same corresponding background pixel.

As will be appreciated in the foregoing the effect images are described as having black and white pixels. These merely represent the two states of the effect layer pixels and are not intended to represent black and white colors. In a Glossmark image there may be more than two states. For example three or more different halftones may be used.

At S the conversion module replaces the original graphical element in the layered document with the modified graphical element . Thus by replacing the original visual graphical elements with the modified graphical elements such as the original layered document is transformed into a new document graphical element by graphical element.

At S the conversion module determines whether there are more effect layers to be processed. If so then the method proceeds to S to process the next closest effect layer above the current graphical element. Else the method proceeds to S.

At S the conversion module determines whether more visual graphical elements remain to be processed on the current visual layer. If so then the method proceeds to S to process the next graphical element on the current visual layer. Else the method proceeds to S.

At S the conversion module determines whether more visual layers remain to be processed on the current page of the layered document . If so then the method proceeds to S to process the next visual layer on the current page. Else the method proceeds to S.

At S the conversion module determines whether more pages remain to be processed in the input layered document . If so then the method proceeds to S to process the next page in the layered document. Else the method proceeds to S.

At S the optimization module removes the effect layers from the transformed document so that the effect layers do not corrupt the print version of the file as they have already been processed. After this step is performed the only layers remaining are the transformed visual layers as shown in .

At S the optimization module converts the transformed file from S to an expected file format if necessary. For example the printer in may require a flattened file as input. In this case the optimization module will flatten the remaining layers in the layered document into a document containing a single layer. The printer may alternatively require a different file format such as PDF in order to print the file. The optimization module may use any known means to convert the transformed file into an expected file format. The method then proceeds to S.

With respect to the transformed document is shown after it is processed by the exemplary system and method and printed on a specialty imaging printer of . As described above with reference to and the transformed document contains the specialty imaging effects applied to the visual layers.

The method illustrated in and may be implemented in a computer program product that may be executed on a computer. The computer program product may be a tangible computer readable recording medium on which a control program is recorded such as a disk or hard drive. Common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disks flexible disks hard disks magnetic tape or any other magnetic storage medium CD ROM DVD or any other optical medium a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM or other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read and use.

The exemplary method may be implemented on one or more general purpose computers special purpose computer s a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hardwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit a programmable logic device such as a PLD PLA FPGA or PAL or the like. In general any device capable of implementing a finite state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowchart shown in and can be used to implement the method for processing links.

The present exemplary method may be run fully automatically without user input as a document flow process and does not require a user interface. However a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI may be utilized in an alternative embodiment. In one embodiment the method and system waits for a new input layered file at a specific hot folder in order to start the specialty imaging transformation. The hot folder may reside locally or across a network. The output file created by the method and system is delivered to a specific output folder which is defined by the system administrator using configuration files. The ability to run the exemplary method as a batch process allows for a flexible printing request architecture.

For example illustrates a system where the SI transformation program i.e. the SI converter is located on a local computer such as the designer s workstation. The designer creates a layered document on his computer using his preferred graphics editing application such as Adobe Photoshop . The designer then exports the layered document to the designated local hot folder where the SI converter automatically detects the presence of the layered file . The layered file is then automatically transformed into a SI print ready file by the SI converter and delivered to the designated remote specialty imaging print queue hot folder . . . on the print server . The print server automatically detects the presence of the SI print ready file and if appropriate processes the file with a raster image processor RIP . The RIP is a commonly used printing component that produces a raster image that is readable by a target printer . The RIP then sends the processed file to the SI printer for printing.

One advantage of this aspect of the exemplary embodiment is that the designer does not have to install the converter on his workstation and the generation of the file is as easy as sending any other regular file to the printer. Licenses are also much easier to manage since they are installed on one server instead of several computers.

The systems shown above may work in production or office environments for one or several SI printers as long as an SI printer is able to correctly print the specialty imaging print ready file. It does not matter where the SI converter is located. For example the SI converter may be on the designer s computer on a print server on the printer itself or where the RIP is located on the print server or on the device . The exemplary method may be implemented on any computer independently of the operating system.

The print server installation of has also advantages in the domain of personalized variable data documents. A variable data set may contain one or more of a visual graphical element effect shape effect type or no effect at all. Some solutions allow a designer to merge graphical designs with variable data stored in a database. A new layered file can be generated for each record in the variable data set. It is easy to convert each resulting layered file into a specialty imaging print ready file using the present exemplary method and system. Another advantage of the server based solution is that the CPU processing is done on the server or printer for the conversion and not on the designer s computer.

An additional advantage of the exemplary method and system is that the original visual layer organization is still available after the conversion. This feature is useful when the file is shared with other people especially using a functional layer definition. If the designer decides to convert a file which contains several sets of visual and effect layers the result will be a layered print ready file which contains several sets of specialty imaging print ready effects. By sharing this file with others recipients can choose the right layer set and print the document normally without the need for specialty imaging converter processing.

The exemplary method and system may be implemented as an add on to a workflow processing application such as Xerox s GlossMark Plus Creation Suite application programming interface API . The ability of the system to be installed uniquely on a print server or directly on a printer without any installation on a user s computer is an implementation which eases IT managers lives and users understanding of the specialty graphical element creation process. Additionally the integration of new specialty imaging effects in the existing system can be completely transparent for the user. The user is able to create their document in the same manner as usual with only a new layer name prefix for specific effects.

It will be appreciated that various of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

