---

title: Low frequency dual-antenna diversity system
abstract: A dual-antenna diversity antenna system that operates within a low frequency band range is disclosed. Two antennas are folded separately onto a single three dimensional dielectric substrate in a meander pattern configuration. Each antenna has an independent feed port and ground pin. The two antennas are configured within a compact mobile terminal to produce high isolation and low correlation at resonating frequencies within the 700 Megahertz frequency band.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08350764&OS=08350764&RS=08350764
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08350764
owner_city: Waterloo, ON
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20100609
---
The subject application claims Paris Convention priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a d of European Patent Application No. 10165259.2 filed on Jun. 8 2010 the entire content of which is herein incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to an antenna diversity arrangement for a mobile terminal and more specifically to the design and implementation of a three dimensional dual antenna diversity system that operates within a fundamental resonant low frequency band of 700 Megahertz MHz .

The design and implementation of multiple antennas in compact mobile terminals for low frequency applications present significant challenges in the achievement of high isolation between the antenna elements low correlation and increased diversity. Antenna designs for low frequency antenna applications may frequently include the implementation of additional matching circuits to reduce coupling. Metamaterial structures such as without limitation electromagnetic bandgap materials may also be used to implement antenna elements in low frequency applications to reduce coupling and correlation.

In the low frequency bands particularly the low frequency spectrum of the Long Term Evolution technology such as 746 787 MHz frequency bands it is typically challenging to achieve low correlation and high isolation in mobile terminals of compact size and limited internal space for the antenna elements and other components.

It should be understood at the outset that although an illustrative implementation of one or more embodiments are provided below the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the embodiments described herein. The disclosure may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated and described herein which may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with a full scope of equivalence. It should be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate the reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

According to an illustrative embodiment a mobile communications device comprises dual antennas. Each antenna comprises a plurality of conductive strip segments electrically connected together and configured into a meander pattern. The first antenna of the dual antennas is disposed at a first corner of a single three dimensional dielectric substrate and comprises a first feed port and a first ground pin. A second antenna of the dual antennas includes conductive strip segments configured in a meander pattern that is identical to the first antenna and is disposed at a second corner of the single three dimensional dielectric substrate that is opposite the first corner and comprises a second feed port and a second ground pin. The second antenna is configured in a meander pattern that is the same as the first antenna.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure an antenna arrangement for a mobile communication device comprises dual antennas each antenna comprising a plurality of conductive strip segments electrically connected together and configured into a meander pattern. A first antenna of the dual antennas is disposed at a first corner of a single three dimensional dielectric substrate and comprises a first feed port and a first ground pin. A second antenna of the dual antennas includes conductive strip segments configured in the meander pattern that is identical to the first antenna and is disposed at a second corner of the single planar dielectric substrate that is opposite the first corner. The first antenna and the second antenna comprise a separate feed port and a separate ground pin.

The present disclosure provides a mobile communication device that comprises dual antennas arranged on a single three dimensional dielectric substrate. Each antenna comprises a plurality of conductive strip segments that are connected together and disposed on the dielectric substrate in a meander pattern. The conductive strip segments are folded in a three dimensional pattern onto the dielectric substrate.

Each antenna has a separate feeding port and separate connection to a ground plane. The spatial distance between the dual antennas is approximately 30 millimeters mm in a mobile device of an exemplary size such as 105 mm by 58 mm. Additionally in the dual antenna arrangement each antenna may be placed orthogonally or symmetrically with respect to the other antenna element. The orthogonal and symmetrical arrangements of the dual antennas enable polarization and pattern diversity.

In this disclosure through illustrates different design arrangement embodiments of a dual antenna system. An antenna in embodiment may be positioned or oriented differently with respect to the x axis and the other antenna in the arrangement. The antenna in the design arrangements of through may include but is in no way limited to planar inverted F antenna PIFA an inverted antenna IFA a type of monopole antenna or other such antenna elements known to one skilled in the art.

Turning first to a planar view of a dual antenna diversity arrangement is depicted in and in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure.

Each three dimensional antenna in the dual antenna diversity arrangement is connected to a separate feed port and a separate ground. For example three dimensional antenna includes a feed port connection and a ground pin connection. Similarly three dimensional antenna includes a single feed port connection and a single ground pin connection. Three dimensional antenna is oriented orthogonally or rotated ninety degrees with respect to the position of three dimensional antenna .

Turning now to dual antenna arrangement is depicted as being mounted or attached to substrate . Three dimensional antenna and three dimensional antenna are folded onto substrate in a meander pattern through the connection of a plurality of conductive strip segments laid out for each respective three dimensional antenna. In the illustrative embodiment dual antenna diversity arrangement may be positioned in a housing for a mobile device. As referenced in three dimensional antennas and include separate feed ports not shown and ground connections not shown to ground plane . The strip segments may be connected through soldering strip segments together or through folding or bending of strip segments.

The dielectric substrate may be formed from a material that includes but is in no way limited to air fiberglass plastic and ceramic. In an illustrative embodiment ground plane may be located parallel to and attached to an opposite side of dielectric substrate . In yet another embodiment ground plane may be disposed at a certain height from dielectric substrate .

Dielectric substrate may be three dimensional in configuration and have the shape of a polygon. In a preferred embodiment the polygonal shaped dielectric substrate may be rectangular. In another embodiment the polygonal shaped substrate may be square. Various configurations of the dielectric substrate are possible as would be recognized by one skilled in the art.

Referring to an exemplary current distribution of dual antenna arrangement at a specific point in time is illustrated. The current distribution of dual antenna arrangement depicts two separate current flows along the direction of the strip segments. For example first antenna is positioned at a first edge of the dielectric substrate such as dielectric of . Feed port enables a current flow to be induced and distributed along the direction of the connected strip segments of first antenna in horizontal and vertical directions according to the meander pattern of first antenna .

Second antenna is rotated ninety degrees with respect to first antenna in a clockwise direction and positioned at a second edge of the dielectric substrate opposite the first edge. Feed port enables a current flow to be induced and distributed along the interconnecting strips of second antenna in horizontal and vertical directions according to the meander pattern of second antenna . The orientation of first antenna and second antenna results in pattern diversity. First antenna and second antenna are only approximately one quarter lambda 4 in length. Therefore current only flows in one direction along the strip segments of the first antenna and the second antenna since currents only reverses direction after traveling a distance of 2.

Turning now to a planar view of a dual antenna diversity arrangement is depicted in and in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure.

Similarly three dimensional antenna may be comprised of a plurality of segments such as without limitation SA SB SC SD SE and SF. First antenna and second antenna are each connected to separate feed ports and separate ground pins. First three dimensional antenna connects to feed port and ground pin . Second three dimensional antenna connects to feed port and ground pin . Three dimensional antenna is oriented orthogonally or rotated in a ninety degree orientation with respect to the position of three dimensional antenna .

Turning now to dual antenna arrangement mounted to substrate is illustrated. Similar to three dimensional antenna and three dimensional antenna are folded onto substrate in a meander pattern through the connection of a plurality of conductive segment strips laid out for each respective three dimensional antenna. In the illustrative embodiment the dual antenna arrangement may be positioned in a housing for a mobile device. Three dimensional antennas and include separate feed ports not shown and ground connections not shown to ground plane .

Second three dimensional antenna is disposed in a mirror symmetry arrangement with respect to first three dimensional antenna and positioned at a second edge of the dielectric substrate opposite the first edge. Feed port enables a current flow to be induced and distributed along the interconnecting strip segments of second three dimensional antenna in horizontal and vertical directions according to the meander pattern of second three dimensional antenna .

The orientation of first three dimensional antenna and second three dimensional antenna results in pattern diversity. First three dimensional antenna and second three dimensional antenna are only approximately one quarter lambda 4 in length. Therefore current only flows in one direction along the strip segments of the first three dimensional antenna and the second three dimensional antenna since current only reverses direction after traveling a distance of 2. Current only reverses direction after traveling a distance of 2.

Referring now to a planar view of a dual antenna diversity arrangement is depicted in and in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure.

For example the conductive strip segments may include without limitation segments SA SB SC SD SE and SF. Similarly three dimensional antenna may be comprised of a plurality of segments such as without limitation SA SB SC SD SE and SF. Each three dimensional antenna in the dual antenna diversity arrangement is connected to a separate feed port and a separate ground pin.

For example three dimensional antenna includes a feed port connection and a ground pin connection. Similarly three dimensional antenna includes a single feed port connection and a single ground pin connection. Three dimensional antenna is oriented orthogonally or rotated ninety degrees with respect to the position of three dimensional antenna .

Turning now to an illustration of dual antenna arrangement is depicted as being mounted or attached to substrate . Three dimensional antenna and three dimensional antenna are folded onto substrate in a meander pattern through the connection of a plurality of conductive segment strips laid out for each respective three dimensional antenna. In the illustrative embodiment the dual antenna arrangement may be positioned in a housing for a mobile device. Three dimensional antennas and include separate feed ports not shown and ground connections not shown to ground plane .

Turning now to an exemplary current distribution of dual antenna arrangement at a specific point in time is illustrated. The current distribution of dual antenna arrangement depicts two separate current flows through two separate antennas. For example first antenna is positioned at a first edge of a dielectric substrate not shown such as dielectric substrate of . Second antenna is positioned at a second edge that is opposite the first edge of the dielectric substrate.

Feed port enables a current flow to be induced and distributed along the interconnecting strips of first three dimensional antenna in horizontal and vertical directions according to the meander pattern of first three dimensional antenna . Current only flows in one direction on first three dimensional antenna since first three dimensional antenna is only approximately one quarter lambda 4 in length. Current only reverses direction after traveling a distance of 2.

Similarly feed port enables a current flow to be induced and distributed along the interconnecting strip segments of second three dimensional antenna in horizontal and vertical directions according to the meander pattern of the second three dimensional antenna .

In illustrative embodiments of the dual antenna arrangement of . a first antenna may be configured as a transceiver that is operable to receive and transmit radio frequency signals. A second antenna may be configured as a receiver operable to receive radio frequency signals. Each antenna of the dual antenna arrangement may operate simultaneously or substantially at the same time or separately depending on implementation. The layout of each antenna of the dual antenna arrangement is designed to enable polarization diversity and reduce coupling between the antennas during operation.

The illustrations of dual antenna arrangements of . is not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different advantageous embodiments may be implemented. For example the antenna may be located in different positions on the dielectric substrate and different locations in order to achieve a desired pattern diversity and polarization diversity.

Referring now to a plot of measured return loss at selected operating frequencies of the low frequency bands of the Long Term Evolution LTE technology for the dual antenna diversity arrangement as illustrated in according to an embodiment of the disclosure.

In the depicted example display is an example of the return loss measured from feed ports of first antenna and second antenna in antenna arrangement in . It must be noted that display provides measurements based on an actual antenna system environment and not based on a simulated or free space environment.

Return loss is the ratio of reflected power to incident power as measured at the feed port of an antenna. Return loss is expressed in decibels. The X axis of measured return loss plot provides the frequency of a radio signal in Megahertz. The Y axis expresses in decibels dB the ratio of reflected and incident signals to a port. In this illustrative embodiment an antenna arrangement such as antenna arrangement of is configured to operate in a 700 MHz band range between frequencies of approximately 746 MHz to 787 MHz.

As illustrated display of port network analyzer illustrates traces of three different signals. Signal trace Trc illustrates the return loss measured at feed port of first antenna . Signal trace Trc illustrates the return loss measured at feed port of second antenna . Signal trace Trc tracks the isolation measured between first antenna and second antenna as frequency increases.

The reflected and incident power signals may be represented by reflection coefficients known as scattering or S parameters. The scattering parameters define energy or power of a network in terms of impedance and admittance. The scattering parameters include Sand S. Srepresents the input reflection coefficient at a first port. Srepresents the output reflection coefficient at a second port. Sand Sprovide an indication of how much power is reflected. Sshows the isolation between two antennas within an antenna arrangement or antenna diversity system.

Measured return loss display illustrates the scattering or S parameters of antenna arrangement depicted in . Measured return loss display illustrates measurements of the input reflection coefficient output reflection coefficient and reversed transmission coefficient at two different ports of the antenna arrangement.

The return loss of dual antenna arrangement is measured at two separate antenna ports. In the illustrative embodiment of Scorresponds to the return loss analyzed and measured at feed port of first antenna as illustrated by signal trace Trc . Scorresponds to the return loss analyzed at feed port of second antenna as illustrated by signal trace Trc .

S Trc and S Trc measure the coupling and reflection of the second and first antenna respectively. The value of the isolation is illustrated by Strace Trc . Within the 700 band resonant frequency the isolation may be optimum at a frequency of about 760 MHZ with an isolation of about 8 decibels dB . An isolation value within a range of between 10 and 12 decibels is considered optimum for the 746 to 787 Megahertz frequency range.

Referring first to display illustrates plot of the antenna efficiency measured at port of the dual antenna diversity arrangement illustrated in . Plot measures frequency in units of Megahertz MHz on the X axis . On the Y axis a measurement of efficiency is illustrated. Efficiency is a measure of the percentage of power radiated to the total power accepted at a port of an antenna. In this illustrative embodiment plot illustrates the efficiency measured at port of of the dual antenna diversity arrangement.

Within the range of any frequency band it is optimum to have the power that is radiated to be as large as possible. In the illustrative embodiment of plot the range of interest of operating frequencies is approximately 745 MHz to 787 MHz. The measured total antenna efficiency is achieved at approximately seventy percent 70 efficiency at around 787 MHz. It must be noted that plot provides measurements based on an actual antenna system environment instead of a simulated or free space environment.

Referring next to display illustrates plot of the antenna efficiency measured at port of the dual antenna diversity arrangement illustrated in . In the illustrative embodiment of plot the frequency range of interest is around 745 MHz to 787 MHz. The measured total antenna efficiency is achieved at approximately sixty percent 60 efficiency at around 767 MHz.

Turning first to two dimensional polar plot illustrates the far field radiation pattern of first antenna of the dual antenna diversity arrangement illustrated in at three different operating frequencies and orientations of the antenna. Radiation pattern represents the radiation pattern at a frequency of approximately 748 MHz in the azimuth plane of the axis of dual antenna diversity arrangement at an angle of phi 0 . Radiation pattern represents the radiation pattern at a frequency of approximately 760 MHz. Radiation pattern represents the radiation pattern at a frequency of approximately 784 MHz. Radiation pattern illustrates an omnidirectional radiation pattern at about 760 MHz.

Turning next to two dimensional polar plot illustrates the far field radiation pattern of the dual antenna diversity arrangement illustrated in at three different operating frequencies and orientations of the antenna. Radiation pattern represents the radiation pattern at a frequency of approximately 748 MHz in the plane of the axis of dual antenna diversity arrangement at an angle of phi 90 . Radiation pattern represents the radiation pattern at a low frequency of approximately 760 MHz. Radiation pattern represents the radiation pattern at a frequency of approximately 784 MHz.

Turning next to two dimensional polar plot illustrates the far field radiation pattern of the dual antenna diversity arrangement illustrated in at three different operating frequencies and orientations of the antenna. Radiation pattern represents the radiation pattern at a frequency of approximately 748 MHz in a plane of the axis of dual antenna diversity arrangement at an angle of theta 90 . Radiation pattern represents the radiation pattern at a low frequency of approximately 760 MHz. Radiation pattern represents the radiation pattern at a frequency of approximately 784 MHz.

Turning now to a three dimensional view of a normalized radiation pattern measured from feed port and feed port of dual antenna diversity arrangement of is depicted according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. In the illustrative embodiment normalized radiation pattern is illustrated by a port view as measured from feed port of first antenna and a port view as measured from feed port of second antenna as illustrated in . It must be noted that radiation pattern provides measurements based on an actual antenna system environment and not based on a simulated or free space environment.

Radiation pattern illustrates a three dimensional view of the minimum and maximum radiated power or gain measured at a far field distance from the antenna. The minimum far field distance is required to be at least about 2D where D is the largest dimension of the antenna and is the wavelength of the frequency. In this illustrative embodiment the port pattern and the port pattern illustrates a dipole radiation pattern that shows a relative distribution of radiation power in a range that spans from 21.00 dB to 5.83 dB.

Port pattern and port pattern illustrates radiation patterns that are directional. Directional radiation patterns radiate signals of high power or gain in a specific direction. In this embodiment the maximum radiated power as illustrated by radiation legend is about 21 dB. The directional radiation patterns of port and port exemplify or illustrate pattern diversity as the radiation pattern of port differs from the radiation pattern of port .

In the illustrative embodiment normalized radiation pattern is illustrated by a port view as measured from feed port of first antenna and a port view as measured from feed port of second antenna as illustrated in . It must be noted that radiation pattern provides measurements based on an actual antenna system environment and not based on a simulated or free space environment.

Port pattern and port pattern illustrates radiation patterns that are directional. Directional radiation patterns radiate signals of high power or gain in a specific direction. In this embodiment the maximum radiated power as illustrated by radiation legend is about 21 dB. The directional radiation patterns of port and port exemplify or illustrate pattern diversity as the radiation pattern of port differs from the radiation pattern of port .

In the illustrative embodiment normalized radiation pattern is illustrated by a port view as measured from feed port of first antenna and a port view as measured from feed port of second antenna as illustrated in . It must be noted that radiation pattern provides measurements based on an actual antenna system environment and not based on a simulated or free space environment.

Port pattern and port pattern illustrates radiation patterns that are directional. Directional radiation patterns radiate the most or the greatest power in a specific direction. In this embodiment the maximum radiated power as illustrated by radiation legend is about 21 dB. The directional radiation patterns of port and port exemplify or illustrate pattern diversity as the radiation pattern of port differs from the radiation pattern of port .

Referring now to a block diagram of mobile communication device is illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. Mobile communication device may be a mobile wireless communication device such as a mobile cellular device herein referred to as a mobile device that may function as a Smartphone which may be configured according to an information technology IT policy. Mobile communication device may be configured to an antenna arrangement such as dual antenna diversity arrangement depicted in .

Mobile communication device includes communication elements in communication subsystem that may be configured to operate with a dual antenna diversity arrangement such as the arrangement of . Antenna system may be configured to support multiple input multiple output technology. Antenna system may include a plurality of antennas for simultaneous or individual radio frequency signal transmissions.

The term information technology in general refers to a collection of information technology rules in which the information technology policy rules may be defined as being either grouped or non grouped and global or per user. The terms grouped non grouped global and per user are defined further below. Examples of applicable communication devices include pagers mobile cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants computers laptops handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers and such other communication devices.

The mobile device is a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices computer systems and assistants through a network of transceivers. In the mobile device includes a number of components such as main processor that controls the overall operation of user equipment . Communication functions are performed through communication subsystem . Communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages across wireless link to wireless communications network .

Communications subsystem provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices such as antenna system without the use of the wireless communications network . For example communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE . Short range communications may include for example without limitation radio frequency signals within a 2.4 GHz band or a 5.8 GHz band.

In this illustrative embodiment of the mobile device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless communications network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by for example without limitation Evolved Enhanced Data GSM Environment EEDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Long Term Evolution LTE and other standards applicable to multiple input multiple output technology. New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future.

The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with wireless communications network represents one or more different radio frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications. Antenna arrangements such as antenna arrangement of are implemented by antenna system of communication subsystem . Antenna arrangement is implemented between network and main processor and enables the mobile communication device to have a higher data rate and a higher throughput based on high correlation and isolation.

Although the wireless communications network associated with mobile device may be a GSM GPRS EDGE wireless communications network in one illustrative implementation other wireless communications networks may also be associated with the mobile device in variant implementations. Examples of these networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS EDGE networks as mentioned above third generation 3G networks such as UMTS and HSPA and also future fourth generation 4G networks such as LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax .

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of the mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless communications network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device . To identify a subscriber the mobile device requires a Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module SIM RUIM module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM module is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM module the mobile device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless communications network .

By inserting the SIM RUIM module into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM module includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM module is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM module can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

An advantage of using the SIM RUIM module is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM RUIM module may store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory . The mobile device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile device .

The mobile device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data voice communication applications antenna system and communication subsystem applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the mobile device to send and receive electronic messages.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence which means that the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless communications network .

The mobile device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system with which the mobile device is authorized to interface.

The connect module includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the mobile device to allow the mobile device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the mobile device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner.

The IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy. The IT policy module then ensures that the IT policy data is authenticated by the mobile device . The IT policy data can then be stored in the flash memory in its native form. After the IT policy data is stored a global notification can be sent by the IT policy module to all of the applications residing on the mobile device . Applications for which the IT policy may be applicable then respond by reading the IT policy data to look for IT policy rules that are applicable.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the mobile device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities and other similar applications know to one skilled in the art.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile device through the wireless communications network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the communication subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both.

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port may be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile device and another computing device. The data port may be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port may be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile device .

In operation a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary I O subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard together with or without a telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed data item may be transmitted over the wireless communications network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the mobile device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein.

The embodiment or embodiments selected are chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems and subsystems and described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules or techniques without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicated through some other interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

