---

title: Towed acoustic source
abstract: A forward and aft open-ended, towed underwater acoustic source having a hollow with a plurality of wires disposed in parallel across one or both of the end openings. In operation, water flows around the wires and proceeds through the hollow body, exiting the aft open end of the body. The tensioned wires are situated normal to the direction of flow in order to cause production of Strouhal vibration frequencies due to the vortex shedding action of the water flow behind the wires. The source transmits broadband acoustic energy without requiring heavy transducers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08520471&OS=08520471&RS=08520471
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Scretary of the Navy
number: 08520471
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100203
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

It is well known in the towed acoustic noise source art that there are a number of off the shelf towable underwater acoustic noisemakers that provide an easy and inexpensive way to generate in water noise signals having reasonable bandwidth and source level characteristics. For example one such well known device is an underwater siren that includes a multi bladed rotor with a plurality of holes in each rotor blade. These holes generate sound as the blades are turned by the water flow. Such devices however typically have the disadvantage that the generated noise waveform characteristics are not very controllable. These devices also have the drawback that the specific waveforms that they generate cannot be easily changed. What is needed is a way to overcome the present inherent lack of control over the generated sound waveforms that are produced by the prior art devices while at the same time keeping the noise generating source simple and lightweight.

Accordingly it is a general purpose and object of the present invention to transmit broadband acoustic energy from a towed acoustic source.

It is a further object that the acoustic source generates carefully preselected Strouhal vibration frequencies in order to create the desired broadband high energy acoustic signals.

Another object is to have the acoustic noise source be tension prior to or during deployment in order to produce a plurality of different desired Strouhal frequencies from a single noise source.

These and other objects are accomplished with the present invention by providing a lightweight forward and aft open ended towed underwater acoustic noise generating source apparatus having a tapered exterior body shape with a plurality of vertical controllably tensioned metal or synthetic fiber e.g. carbon fiber fiberglass or para aramid synthetic fiber such as Kevlar or the like wires disposed in parallel across the forward end opening. In operation water flows around the wires and proceeds through the tapered body exiting the aft open end of the body. It is important that the forward and aft end openings of the body have cross sectional areas that are sufficiently close in size to avoid Venturi effects. The tensioned wires are situated normal to the direction of flow in order to cause Strouhal vibration frequencies to be produced due to the vortex shedding action of the water flow behind the wires. The source transmits broadband acoustic energy generated by the vortex shedding thus not requiring that heavy expensive noise generating transducers need to be included as part of the tow body in order to produce the desired noise signature.

Referring now to there is shown one embodiment of the towed acoustic source built according to the teachings of the present invention. Source includes a tapered open ended tow body having a plurality of tensioned metal e.g. steel or synthetic fiber e.g. carbon fiber fiberglass or para aramid synthetic fiber such as Kevlar or the like wires disposed vertically or horizontally across the forward end of body and oriented normal to the direction of water flow when towed. While this shows wires disposed across the forward end of body it is understood that these wires could be disposed across either or both ends of body . Tow body further includes a forward opening and an aft opening each opening selected to have a circular or oval shape but both openings also having cross sectional areas that are sufficiently close in size to avoid venturi effects within body while still permitting an increasing water flowrate through the successively tapering body interior. For this purpose forward opening can be slightly larger than aft opening or openings and can be substantially equal in size. Body s exterior surface taper produces better hydrodynamic characteristics.

A tow cable is fixedly attached to the exterior surface of the top of the front end of body at a mount . This provides the necessary tow force for the source while also providing electrical power to source . A plurality of stabilizing fins four are shown in the preferred embodiment are attached to the aft end of tapered body to permit a controlled tow to occur. While shows the fins in vertical and horizontal orientations it is understood that other fin arrangements such as diagonal or Y shaped are possible. Dashed alignment lines of demonstrate that openings and each have the same cross sectional area. It is noted that the length of tow body has no measurable effect on the signal characteristics. further shows a typical top end termination for one of wires disposed inside tow body where the wire is attached to a solenoid that is powered by a lead from cable . While not shown in it is understood that one each of a plurality of leads and solenoids are attached to the top end of a corresponding top of plurality of wires . Other embodiments may feature multiple wires joined to a single solenoid so that action of one solenoid can reduce tension in the associated wires .

The tensioned wires have preselected diameters tensions and chosen material properties that together produce the intended velocity induced vibrations at the desired Strouhal frequencies. The Strouhal vibration frequency fgenerated by each wire due to flow induced vortex shedding is generally defined as 

In order to maximize the total source level produced each wire is tuned to its Strouhal frequency by adjusting its tension. This tuning changes the transverse wave speed c according to the relationship 

A tensioning device is also desired that can quickly remove the tension on each wire. The preferred way to do this involves attaching one end of each wire to a corresponding solenoid based actuator as shown in so that the wire can be quickly loosened and re tightened. This allows the generated waveform to be started stopped or changed as needed by tightening or loosening the appropriate wires while under deployment. shows an alternate embodiment of the tensioning device. In this embodiment solenoid based actuator is joined to a draw bar joined to multiple wires . This embodiment uses fewer solenoids than that shown in . Other tensioning devices can use electrical motors and winding drums to tension wires .

A broadband waveform can be created with a plurality of wires of identical material at different tensions so that each resonates at a different frequency. A second method would involve wires of different materials or of different diameters. In this case each wire would achieve a full wavelength at 1 meter at different frequencies even at the same tension. This would occur because the mass per unit length of each wire would be different.

The number of wires at the forward opening of the tow body should be kept as high as possible in order to maximize source sound level. However when adjacent wires are spaced too close to each other an individual wire s vortex shedding pattern begins to interfere with that of the neighboring wires and is altered due to vortex interactions. But this only occurs when the wire separation distance y in is on the order of a few wire diameters d. Since the wire diameter is approximately one millimeter a separation of several millimeters allows a high wire density thereby maximizing the source sound level and bandwidth.

The primary advantages of the present invention are that because there is no need for sound producing transducers in the tow body the body will be very light for easier deployment and recovery. The cost of using such transducers is also avoided. In addition the ability to change or eliminate the wire tension gives greater control over the sound generated by apparatus .

What has thus been described is a lightweight forward and aft open ended towed underwater acoustic noise generating source having a tapered exterior body shape with a plurality of vertical controllably tensioned metal or synthetic fiber wires disposed in parallel across the forward end opening. In operation water flows around the wires and proceeds through the tapered body exiting the body s aft open end. It is important that the forward and aft end openings of the body have cross sectional areas that are sufficiently close in size to avoid adverse hydrodynamic affects. The tensioned wires are situated normal to the direction of flow in order to cause Strouhal vibration frequencies to be produced due to the vortex shedding action of the water flow behind the wires. The source transmits broadband acoustic energy generated by the vortex shedding thus not requiring that heavy expensive noise generating transducers have to be included as part of the tow body in order to produce the desired noise signature.

Many modifications and variations of the present invention may become apparent in light of the above teachings. For example the wire material may be metal or may be a synthetic fiber having sufficient tensile strength for the Strouhal frequencies desired the number diameter and spacing of the wires can be varied according to the teaching of the invention to produce the desired signal strength the tension of individual wires can be preset or changed while deployed to many desired levels the fins can be varied in number and orientation without deviating from the teachings of the present invention and also the forward and aft opening cross sectional shape can be varied as long as the cross sectional area remains substantially equal.

In light of the above it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

