---

title: Method for preparing a non-self-aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor with a small emitter-to-base spacing
abstract: The present invention refers to a method for preparing a non-self-aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor comprising: preparing a patterned emitter metal on an emitter epi layer of a HBT epi structure on a substrate; preparing an emitter epitaxy below the emitter metal; applying a resist layer on the top surface covering the emitter metal and emitter epitaxy, and the base layer; applying lithography leaving the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal covered by the resist vertically with a width pand leaving a pattern according to the mask in the resist; depositing base metal on the entire surface; and removing the remaining resist and the base metal covering the resist defining a base metal, the base metal being spaced from the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal by a distance xfrom 0.05 μm to 0.7 μm. The present invention refers to a non-self-aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor as prepared by this method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08169001&OS=08169001&RS=08169001
owner: HRL Laboratories, LLC
number: 08169001
owner_city: Malibu
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101104
---
This is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 115 739 filed on May 6 2008 which is incorporated herein as though set forth in full which application is in turn a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 966 219 filed on Oct. 15 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 396 731.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. F33615 02 C 1286 awarded by the Air Force Research Laboratory. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to a non self aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor HBT and a method for preparing a non self aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor HBT .

The use of self aligned contacts in the HBT process is to minimize the base access resistance of the device. The use of this technique is known in that fabrication of early HBTs utilized contact lithography or early broadband wafer stepper systems for device fabrication. These systems are capable of limited layer to layer registration and therefore the only technique available to minimize contact spacing was to employ the technique of self aligned contacts. Large circuit demonstrating yield of known devices is described in T. P. Broekaert W. Ng J. F. Jensens D Yap D. L. Persechini S. Bourgholtaer C. H. Fields Y. K. Brown Boegeman B. Shi and R. H. Walden InP HBT Optoelectronic Integrated Circuits for Photonic Anaolog to digital Conversion IEEE Journal of Solid State Circuits Vol. 36 No. 9 September 2001 pp. 1335 1342 which is incorporated herein by reference.

While self aligned HBT devices do demonstrate lower base resistance this technique is prone to variations in device Beta due to lateral diffusion of minority carriers in the base and recombination at the base metal BMET contact which leads to variations in the base current of these devices. Since variations in base current lead to variations in Beta the HBTs fabricated using self aligned contacts demonstrate a large range of measured Beta.

A description of general HBT devices can be found in Jensen J. F. Stanchina W. E. Metzger R. A. Rensch D. B. Pierce M. W. Kargodorian T. V. Allen Y. K. AllnAs GaInAs HBT IC technology Custom Integrated Circuits Conference 1990 Proceedings of the IEEE 1990 13 16 May 1990 Pages 18.2 1 18.2 4 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Another general description of a HBT device is disclosed by Hafizi M. Stanchina W. E. Sun H. C. Submicron fully self aligned AllnAs GaInAs HBTs for low power applications Device Research Conference 1995. Digest. 1995 53rd Annual 19 21 Jun. 1995 Pages 80 81 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Jensen J. F. Stanchina W. E. Metzger R. A. Rensch D. B. Allen Y. K. Pierce M. W. Kargodorian T. V High speed dual modulus dividers using AlInAs GaInAs HBT IC technology Gallium Arsenide Integrated Circuit GaAs IC Symposium 1990. Technical Digest 1990 12th Annual 7 10 Oct. 1990 Pages 41 44 describe a general HBT device as well which is incorporated herein by reference.

Base emitter shorts are a leading limitation to HBT IC yield. Shorts due to metal spiting during the self aligned base metal deposition occurs in about 1 in 600 transistors and limits current HBT IC yield to below 2000 transistors. The use of non self aligned emitter base contacts eliminates the possibility of shorting of this type.

In HBTs designed for high speed applications current gain is not determined solely by recombination in the bulk of the base epitaxy layer. Both surface and bulk components of base current combine to decrease the overall device current gain. InP HBTs known in the state of the art employ self aligned base emitter structures to reduce the extrinsic base resistance and the base collector junction capacitance. This alignment technique results in narrow contact spacing and potentially large values of surface recombination. Handbook of III V Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors W. Liu 1998 Wiley Sons shows that Beta is extremely sensitive to the spacing of the emitter and base contacts for values closer than about 1500 . In this range minor variations in wet etch isotropy or in metal deposition source angle could lead to wildly varying values of Beta. In a self aligned HBT the emitter base spacing can even approach zero.

The mechanism for reduction and variation in Beta is shown in . shows that electrons which are emitted by the emitter epi layer migrate through the base layer to the collector layer . A minority of electrons however laterally diffuses and does not reach the collector layer and instead migrates to the base metal . Any electron that reaches the base metal instead of collector layer causes reduction and variation in device Beta.

In a further process step the emitter epi layer is etched off to yield an emitter epitaxy below and in line with emitter metal . shows an emitter epitaxy below and in line with the emitter metal wherein the emitter epitaxy has an undercut A. The undercut A is obtained by two etch process steps a wet etch and a dry etch. The undercut A is necessary for devices according to the prior art between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy as shown in . The emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal form a pedestal. In a next step a photoresist layer is applied on the base layer covering the base layer and emitter epitaxy and emitter metal as shown in .

The following process is carried out according to image reversal photolithography as follows. The photoresist layer is irradiated by light through a mask . The mask covers the area of the emitter metal in excess which is not irradiated. After the irradiation the surface of the photoresist layer which was irradiated through the mask becomes insensitive for removing. The area of the photoresist which was covered and therefore not irradiated is sensitive and can be removed as shown in . After removing the sensitive area of the photoresist part of the base layer the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal are laid free and are not covered by the photoresist layer as shown in . In the next step base metal is applied on the entire top surface as shown in . In the next step the photoresist is removed together with the base metal on top of the photoresist as shown in . The pedestal comprising emitter epitaxy below and in line with emitter metal is covered by the base metal . The base metal has a certain distance to the emitter epitaxy in order to avoid a shorting between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy . Since the emitter epitaxy has the undercut a shorting between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy is avoided. However due to the undercut A of the emitter epitaxy the contact area between the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal is reduced.

It is desirable to prepare a device which reduces shorting between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy . There is a need for a device that solves the recurring problem of low and varying values of current gain Beta in current state of the art HBT devices. There is further a need to solve the problem of variations in HBT Beta from wafer to wafer variations in HBT Beta within a single wafer and from wafer to wafer. Base emitter shorts which occur in about 1 600 transistors lead poor line yield of HBT wafers that needs to be improved.

One aspect of the invention is a device that solves the recurring problem of low and varying values of current gain Beta in current state of the art HBT devices.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for preparing a Heterojunction Bipolar Transistor HBT . The method for preparing a non self aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor which comprises 

Yet another aspect of the invention is a method for preparing a non self aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor which comprises 

The solution is in the form of a change to the HBT device layout. The new device layout relies upon optical lithography to pattern the base metal contact layer BMET and thereby define the critical emitter to base spacing. The device current gain is a very sensitive function of this emitter base contact spacing. The use of photolithography to control the critical spacing instead of wet etching leads to improved device performance and circuit yield.

The present invention solves the problem of current gain loss and the lateral diffusion of minority carriers in the base that recombine at the BMET interface. At the same time the RF performance is maintained or even improved.

The base metal is placed according to the invention at least some multiple of a diffusion length L away from the emitter in order to avoid reduction and variation in device Beta. This is accomplished in self aligned SA HBTs by a method of wet etching of the emitter pedestal emitter metal and emitter epitaxy to move the emitter epi layer further under the EMET pattern . The present invention provides a method of lithography to control this emitter to base spacing and to minimize the diffusion of electrons.

Two terminal forward Gummel characteristics for three self aligned HBT devices were measured at three different sites across a three inch InP wafer as shown in . The top three curves I II III plot the collector current and show the variation in device turn on voltage across the wafer. The bottom three curves IV V W are the measured base current of the devices which shows the large variation in leakage current across the wafer for these self aligned devices.

Two terminal forward Gummel characteristics for three non self aligned NSA HBT devices were measured at three different sites across a three inch InP wafer as shown in . The device measurements plotted here were taken from devices adjacent to the three from . The top three curves I II III plot the collector current and show that these devices demonstrate a great improvement in minimizing the variation in device turn on voltage across the wafer. The bottom three curves IV V VI are the measured base current of the devices which shows significantly lower leakage current as well as reduced variation across the wafer for these non self aligned devices. The reduced leakage current demonstrated by these NSA devices leads to higher gain and usable gain at extremely low power levels.

The unity gain cutoff frequency F for the six devices from and were measured and are shown in . Extrapolation of ft was done from a single frequency point s parameter measurement assuming an h21 versus frequency slope of 20 dB decade. This plot shows that the NSA devices operated at higher frequencies compared to the self aligned devices across the entire range of current or power levels.

The sole difference between SA and NSA transistors is a simple change to a single layer in the device fabrication process. The starting material is preferably a layer structure which comprises a base . An emitter epi layer is deposited or grown on the base . An emitter metal layer EMET is deposited on the emitter epi layer . Underneath the base layer a collector layer and below the collector layer a subcollector layer is deposited on the substrate . The described layer structure beginning with substrate and on the substrate preferably the following layers are deposited subcollector collector base layer emitter epi layer and emitter metal layer is a preferred starting material for manufacturing SA and NSA transistors. This structure is called the HBT epi layer structure.

The starting layer structure as shown in is used for the method according to this preferred embodiment. does not show an undercut A of the emitter epitaxy . The process for yielding emitter epitaxy involves only dry etch. The step of wet etch is omitted. The wet etch process leads to the undercut of the emitter epitaxy which is necessary according to the prior art to avoid shorting between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy . The process of the present invention makes it possible to deposit the base metal on the base wherein a controlled distance between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy is reached to avoid shorting as shown in .

A photoresist layer is applied on the top surface layer. Two different methods can be preferably applied to irradiate and remove photoresist layer image reversal photography and positive photolithography. Image reversal photography is shown in and already explained in the above in regard to . The photoresist layer is irradiated by light through a mask . The mask leaves the area of photoresist covering the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal plus the later emitter to base spacing xon the left and right sight open to be irradiated. After the irradiation the surface of the photoresist layer which was irradiated through the mask becomes insensitive for removing. The area of the photoresist which was covered and therefore not irradiated is sensitive and can be removed as shown in and .

The other method positive photolithography is shown in . The photoresist layer is irradiated by light through a mask . The mask covers the area of the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal plus the later emitter to base spacing xon the left and right sight. After the irradiation the surface of the photoresist layer which was irradiated through the mask becomes sensitive for removing. The area of the photoresist which was covered and therefore not irradiated stays insensitive and cannot be removed.

According to both methods the mask is carefully designed so that after removing the non irradiated photoresist in the image reversal photography and after removing the irradiated photoresist in the positive photolithography parts of the base layer are still covered by photoresist layer . Both methods image reversal photolithography and positive photolithography yield a structure as shown in . The two methods use a positive or negative mask and require different photoresist material. Both methods image reversal photolithography and positive photolithography are well known in the art. Both methods are described in Microlithography Micromachining and Microfabrication Vol. 1 Microlithography Editor P. Rai Choudhury 1997 SPIE Optical Engineering Press Bellingham Wash. and Semiconductor Lithography Principles Practices and Materials Wayne M. Moreau 1988 Plenum Press New York which are both incorporated herein by reference.

It is very important for the present invention that the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal are not laid free and vertically and horizontally covered by the photoresist layer as shown in . The width pof the vertical coverage of the emitter metal with photoresist predetermines the later emitter to base spacing x. The thickness of the vertical coverage of the emitter metal predetermines the emitter to base spacing xas shown in . In the next step the entire top surface becomes covered by base metal as shown in . In the next step the photoresist is removed together with the base metal on top of the photoresist as shown in .

A comparison between the SA design of the state of the art in to the NSA design prepared by the method invention in shows that an emitter to base spacing xis created by the method according to the present invention. The pedestal comprising emitter epitaxy below and in line with emitter metal is not covered by the base metal according to this embodiment of the invention.

The same starting layer structure as shown in is used for the method according to this preferred embodiment wherein a base metal layer is applied on the top surface as shown in . Then a photoresist layer is applied on the base metal layer as shown in . Two different methods can be applied to irradiate and remove photoresist layer the image reversal photography as shown in and the positive photolithography as shown . Both methods are described in the preceding sections in regard to and . According to both methods the mask is carefully designed so that after removing the non irradiated photoresist in image reversal photolithography and after removing the irradiated photoresist in the positive photolithography parts of the base layer are still covered by photoresist layer . The distance pbetween the edge of the photoresist covering the base metal and emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal as shown in predetermines the emitter to base spacing xas shown in . In the next step the base metal layer which is not covered by photoresist is removed wherein base metal covered by photoresist stays on the base as shown in . In the next step the photoresist is removed as shown in . The pedestal comprising emitter epitaxy below and in line with emitter metal is not covered by the base metal according to this embodiment of the invention.

The Non Self Aligned Heterojunction Bipolar Transistor according to the present invention as shown in and and can be prepared by both methods of the present invention shown in and .

The preferred spacing between the emitter metal and the base metal X which means between the Emitter pedestal and the closest edge of the base metal X is from 0.05 m to 0.6 m preferably from 0.05 m to 0.5 m more preferably from 0.05 m to 0.3 m and most preferably from 0.05 m to 0.15 m.

The following preferred materials for metals and epitaxy are preferably used within the present invention. Any of the materials from each list can be used for each. That is any metal on the list will work for any of the three contacts and any of the epi materials listed will work for any of the three epitaxy layers.

One or more of the following metals or metal alloys InGaAs InAlAs InAs InSb AlInGaAs InGaSb GaAs InP InGaP Si or SiGe can preferably be used as Emitter Epitaxy or Base Epitaxy or Collector Epitaxy.

One or more of the following metals or metal alloys Titanium Molybdenum Aluminum Gold Platinum Copper Gold Germanium Nickel Tantalum or Tungsten can preferably be used as Emitter Metal or Base Metal or Collector Metal.

One or more of the following metals or metal alloys Silicon SiGe InP GaAs SiC Quartz or Sapphire can preferably be used as Substrates.

Both light photolithography and even electron beam e beam lithography are applicable to the invention here. With photolithography there is a standard chrome on quartz mask used but any general mask works. The lithography could be either positive photolithography or image reversal photolithography. Both are applicable.

A photoresist layer of 1 m was applied on the top surface of a layer structure wafer with emitter epitaxy and emitter metal as shown in . A photoresist SPR 955 1.1 of Shipley Company was applied as a liquid by spin on processing to the wafer. The wafer was then heated on a hot plate by 90 C. for 60 seconds. The wafer was then exposed to a light through a mask as shown in . The light was Wine 365 nm. After the irradiation the wafer was baked in an image reversal oven using NHgas at a temperature of 100 C. for 90 minutes. Then the entire wafer was exposed to a broadband illumination without a mask to complete the cross linking process in the photoresist. Then the wafer was exposed to a photoresist developer MF 321 Metal Ion Free of Shipley Company. A wafer was obtained as shown in . Then base metal was deposited on the entire top surface of the wafer as shown in using the process of thermal evaporation. A base metal was heated until the temperature of evaporation. First a thin layer of titanium as adhesion layer then platinum as diffusion barrier and finally gold was deposited on the top surface of the wafer. Then the entire wafer was exposed to an acetone bath wherein the photoresist was removed and a HBT precursor was obtained as shown in .

A photoresist layer of 1 m was applied on the top surface of a layer structure wafer with emitter epitaxy and emitter metal as shown in . A photoresist SPR 955 1.1 of Shipley Company was applied as a liquid by spin on processing to the wafer. The wafer was then heated on a hot plate by 100 C. for 60 seconds. The wafer was then exposed to a light through a mask as shown in . The light was i line 365 nm. Then the wafer was exposed to a photoresist developer MF 26A Metal Ion Free of Shipley Company. A wafer was obtained as shown in . Then base metal was deposited on the entire top surface of the wafer as shown in using the process of thermal evaporation. A base metal was heated until the temperature of evaporation. First a thin layer of titanium as adhesion layer then platinum as diffusion barrier and finally gold was deposited on the top surface of the wafer. Then the entire wafer was exposed to an acetone bath wherein the photoresist was removed and a HBT precursor was obtained as shown in .

Although the description above contains much specificity this should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments of this invention. For example the process described above can involve additional or fewer steps and different priorities of steps.

Thus the scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the examples given.

