---

title: Messaging translation service application servers and methods for use in message translations
abstract: A method for message translation and a Messaging Translation Service Application Server (MTS AS) are provided for translating messages exchanged with, and among, social network services alike Facebook™ and Tweeter™. According to the invention, a message written in a first language by a user is received by a first social media network, which further obtains from other social media network(s) information related to a language used by therein. Then, the first social media network requests translation of the message from the first language into the language used by the other social network systems, and further sends the translated message to the other social network systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738358&OS=08738358&RS=08738358
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (Publ)
number: 08738358
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20101224
---
Social network services also called social networks social media portals social media sites social sites social media servers etc and associated technologies are now everywhere. People like to share various types of information in the hope to reach contacts also called friends and or as many individuals as possible. The objective is simple share learn and interact with others may it be people who users know or not.

Various social network services are currently offered to users. For example Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson PUBL called hereinafter Ericsson is offering the LifeStore product which includes a social network service component for communicating with different other social sites. Open social API s Application Programming Interfaces are supported and included in the LifeStore product in order to allow seamless communication between LifeStore and other social network services sites such as for example Facebook Orkut Picasa Twitter or YouTube Lifestore allows a user to upload his her media such as for example text messages images audio or video files onto LifeStore and further enables bidirectional propagation synchronization of the user s media with other social sites. For example when the user uploads a picture on the LifeStore account Lifestore synchronizes that media with every other registered social network service of that user as pre configured by the user in his her LifeStore account and hence uploads the picture for example to the user s Facebook and Twitter accounts insuring seamless propagation of the media and sparing the user the need to manually connect and upload the media individually on every social network service.

Because the social network services are now easily available over the Internet the pool of potential contacts also sometimes called friends is virtually unlimited.

A given North American user may for example regularly exchange information with people from Asia Australia Africa or South America. With the existing product implementations the user is able to post a message to multiple social networks simultaneously. However each social network system receives the same message written in the original language used by the sending subscriber or poster. A problem arises in that the message reaches recipients in other countries or continents that do not understand the original language of the message. Therefore the recipients may not be able to understand and consume the message properly. The problem may be further exacerbated in the context of commercial applications generating messages for an entire community of users for advertising purposes. For example the Coca Cola company may also possess a social network account on a given social network service and have a base of millions of connected friends residing in different countries and speaking different languages. Sending media that includes text written in a given language may not be adapted and appropriate for everyone in the pool of recipient users.

Although there is no solution as the one proposed by present invention the US Patent Application Publication US 2009 0248392 A1 presents some relation with the field of the present invention. This publication teaches an instant messaging interface including a dialog region and a communication entry region that allows the sending user to select an automatic translation between the entered text and another language associated with a recipient user. Once the message is translated it is communicated to the participating users in the instant messaging communication session. According to this publication the sending user needs to specifically select the translation to take place.

The US Patent Application Publication US 2009 0198487 A1 also presents some relation with the field of the present invention. This publication provides techniques for translating of text in a social network. Translation of text phrases are received from members of the social network and include content displayed in a social networking system such as content from social network objects. A particular member of the network is provided with content including a text phrase in a first language and the member requests translation into another language. Friends from the social network participate to the translation of the text which is then presented to the member requesting a translation.

However none of the above cited publications solves the problem associated with the dissemination of a message written in a first language to multiple social network sites and to multiple users of those sites who can be using a different language than the one in which the original message is written. Nor do these publications solve the problem of sending a message to a single user whose preferred language is unknown to the sender.

Accordingly it should be readily appreciated that in order to overcome at least the deficiencies and shortcomings of the existing solutions it would be advantageous to have a method and system for seamless transmission of messages written in various languages among social network sites. The present invention provides such a method and system.

According to a first aspect of the preferred embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for message translation comprising the steps of receiving at a Messaging Translation Service Application Server MTS AS a message written in a first language obtaining from the Social Media server SM server information related to a language used by the at least one SM server requesting a translation of the message from the first language into the language used by the SM server and sending a translation of the message in the language used by the at least one SM server to the at least one SM server.

According to a another aspect of the preferred embodiment of the invention there is provided a MTS AS comprising a communication interface receiving at a message written in a first language a processor operationally connected to the communication interface and an instructions repository. The later stores instructions that when executed by the processor cause the later to obtain via the communication interface from the at least one Social Media server SM server information related to a language used by the at least one SM server and to further instruct the communication interface to request a translation of the message from the first language into the language used by the at least one SM server and to yet further instruct the communication interface to send a translation of the message in the language used by the at least one SM server to the at least one SM server.

According to yet another aspect of the preferred embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for use in message translation comprising the steps of receiving from a first SM server at a second SM server a request for information related to a language used by the second SM server determining by the second SM server the language used by the second SM server and returning from the second SM server to the first SM server the language used by the second SM server.

According to yet a another aspect of the preferred embodiment of the invention there is provided a second SM server comprising an input output interface receiving from a first SM server a request for information related to a language used by the second SM server a processor operationally connected to the input output interface and an instructions repository storing instructions that when executed by the processor cause the later to determiner the language used by the second SM server and to return via the input output interface to the first SM server the language used by the second SM server

The innovative teachings of the present invention will be described with particular reference to various exemplary embodiments. However it should be understood that this class of embodiments provides only a few examples of the many advantageous uses of the innovative teachings of the invention. In general statements made in the specification of the present application do not necessarily limit any of the various claimed aspects of the present invention. Moreover some statements may apply to some inventive features but not to others. In the drawings like or similar elements are designated with identical reference numerals throughout the several views.

According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention social network systems are interconnected with each other via an interface that allows for the exchange of language information that can be used for translating an originating message into a destination language associated with each social network where the message is to be posted or with groups and communities or even with users of such social network systems. It is to be noted that social network services are also called both in the industry and in herein social networks social media portals social media sites social sites social media servers and that such terminology is used herein interchangeably.

Reference is now made to which shows a high level network diagram of an exemplary implementation of the preferred embodiment of the invention in a communications network . Shown in the network is an IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem network that may comprise a Call State Control Function CSCF responsible for routing requests calls and data sessions on behalf of the users. Served by the CSCF is a User Equipment UE that may communicate via a SIP IMS interface e.g. based on the Session Initiation Protocol SIP with the CSCF and via the interface with a social network system . The interface may be an HTTP Hyper Text transfer Protocol interface if for example the system is accessible over the Internet and a web browser and or an SMS MMS Short Messaging Service or Multimedia Messaging Service interface if the system is accessible via cellular messaging technologies and or and email SMTP Simple Mail transfer Protocol interface in case it is accessible via email. An AAA server Authentically Authorization and Accounting server and or a Home Location Register HLR are operationally connected to the CSCF and function to store subscriber information for subscribers of the network . Shown in the same IMS network is a Messaging Translation Service Application Server MTS AS that implements the preferred embodiment of the present invention. The MTS AS may be part of or connected to the social network system such as for example the LifeStore product and may communicate with a translator application server over an interface in order to ask for translation of outgoing messages. Such messages may need to be further sent for posting to various other social network systems through that are part of or can be accessed through the Internet . A communication interface that may take the form of Application Programming Interface APIs through may connect the MTS AS with various other social media systems such as for example with LiveJournal application server Kaixin001 application server Facebook application server Myspace application server or Orkut application server .

In the exemplary scenario of the UE may post a message to the social network system and the message may need to be replicated onto one or more of the social network sites through based for example on information stored in the social network system e.g. pre configured accounts of the other social network services and or the message itself e.g. information stored in the message specifying to which other social network systems the message is to be sent . According to the invention when the message is sent from the UE for posting onto the social network system via for example the communication interface that can take the form of an HTTP interface an SMS message transmission an MMS message transmission or an email message transmission the message reaches the social network system which determines that the message needs to be posted on one or more of the servers through . Based on this determination the MTS AS of the social network system obtains via the communication interfaces through the language used or mostly used on each one of the servers through or alternatively in the communities or groups to which the message is to be posted. Using the determined language s the MTS AS may contact the translator application server and ask for the requested translation s before sending the translated message out to the social media networks through .

Reference is now being made to which shows a nodal operation and signal flow diagram of an exemplary implementation of the preferred embodiment of the invention in the communications network as described herein before. Shown in the are substantially the same elements as those previously described in relation to the . In the exemplary scenario shown in it is first assumed that the user of the UE A desires to upload a message that is originally written in the English language to his social network sites shown in and which includes Facebook Kaixin001 LiveJournal and LifeStore . The later includes or is otherwise operationally connected to the MTS AS . In action the user of the UE A uploads the message post to the social network . In action the social network system retrieves the message written in the English language and in action it confirms the receipt of the message back to user of the UE A . In action the social media system determines that the message is to be posted on one or more social network systems based for example on information comprised in the incoming message or based on a pre configuration effectuated by the user of the UE A with the LifeStore social network system . Being now provided with the identities of the social network systems that need to be further provided with the message the MTS AS moves to determine if the message can or should be posted in the original language it is written or of it needs translation. For this purpose the MTS AS requests the language used by the social media servers or by the groups and possibly their associated users to which the message is to be posted to. For example in actions the MTS AS contacts the social media networks and requests their associated or preferred language for posting of the message. The requests and may request the preferred language of a given social network system of a given group of friends contacts within the given social network system or even of a given discussion e.g. chat thread between the group of friends of a given social network system. Therefore the requests and may optionally also comprise a sender identifier identifying the originator user A and or a message identifier that may link the original message to a discussion chat thread.

Responsive to the requests and in actions and the MTS AS is provided back by each contacted social network system with the preferred language of each such system. This language or these languages may be the language s mostly used on each one of the social media servers or within the groups of friends or within the discussion thread linked to the message. In particular in the exemplary scenario described herein Facebook application server answers that the English language is to be used Kaixin application server answers back that the Chinese language is to be used while LiveJournal application server answers back that both the English language and the Russian language are to used since for example the chat thread to which the message is destined is unfolding in both English and Russian .

According to a variant of the preferred embodiment of the invention a reply alike the replies and received by the MTS AS from the social network systems is shown in and may further include other language information allowing the MTS AS to determine a target language for translation if any is needed. The request for the language sent in action may include a request for the preferred language associated with any one of or more of the entire social network system the group of friends to which the sender belongs to and the discussion thread the original message is linked to if any . The request for the language of action may also further include a sender identifier or a message identifier. In action the social network server determines the language based on the request and in action replies back with the preferred language. According to this variant of the preferred embodiment of the invention the reply may take various forms. For example the reply may only include reference to one preferred language as shown in . In a further example as shown in the reply may include weighted coefficient values related to the usage of one or more language in the social network system the groups of friends or the discussion thread. For example the reply may include information that the language e.g. English is used in 80 of cases while a language e.g. Chinese is used in 10 of the cases.

With reference being now made back to in action the MTS AS then determines based on the information received in the replies and the languages in which the message needs to be translated and posted on the different social network systems. Therefore in action it requests the translation application server to proceed with the translation of the message from its original English language towards e.g. Chinese and Russian. The translation AS proceeds with the requested translation s in action and in action responds back to the MTS AS with the translation of the original message from the first language English language into the language used by the social network systems e.g. Chinese and Russian .

In an optional variant of the preferred embodiment of the invention the MTS AS may send in action the translations to be reviewed and approved by the user A . In action the user may proceed to the review and the approval of the translation text and in action the user A may send back to the MTS AS his approval for the translated text for each translation. Upon receipt of the approval or directly following action the MTS AS proceeds to upload the translated message under respective social media servers.

In action the original English message is uploaded on Facebook since there is no need for any translation. A notification is sent to the user or group or community to inform of the pending new message in action . Confirmation of the new message being posted is sent back to the MTS AS server in action which may be forwarded back to the user A action not shown . Likewise the MTS AS proceeds to upload the Chinese translation of the original message in action to the Kaixin001 server and again sends the notification to the users or to the related group in order to notify of the posting of the new message in action and further confirms to the MTS AS the success of the delivery in action . In action the MTS AS combines the original English message with the Russian translation of the message since the LiveJournal server answered in the previously described action that both the English and Russian languages are preferred for the message posting and sends in action the combined message in English language and in Russian to the LiveJournal server . Assuming that for example the message is for being posted in a chat or discussion thread that unfolds in both Russian and English in action the LiveJournal server determines in what language to send the notification for advising the users of the new posting and in actions and notifies in English and in Russian respectively of the new message post based on the determination of action . For example in action the LiveJournal server may notify a user who posted in English previous messages on the given discussion thread while in action the LiveJournal server may notify in Russian a user who posted previous messages in Russian on the given discussion thread. In action the LiveJournal server reports the successful delivery of the notifications and of the message posting to the MTS AS .

Reference is now made to which shows an exemplary block diagram of the MTS AS according to the preferred embodiment of the present invention. The MTS AS comprises a communication interface configured for receiving a message written in a first language such as for example the English language. The MTS AS further comprises a processor that is operationally connected to the communication interface and which receives the message from the later. The AS also comprises an instruction repository configured to store instructions that when executed by the processor cause the later to determine that the message is to be posted on at least one social network system and to obtain from the at least one social media server information related to the language used by the at least one social media server as described also in relation to . The instructions stored on the repository may be further executed by the processor and cause to the communication interface to request the translation of the message from the first language such as for example the English language into another language used by the least one social media server.

The instructions further instruct the communication interface to send the translation of the message in the language used by the at least one social media server to the server in question. Finally the instructions when executed by the processor may yet further cause the later to produce alone or in combination with the communication interface the actions described hereinbefore in relation to the that pertain to the TMC AS including the processing of all incoming messages and the transmission of the outgoing messages from the MTS AS as shown in .

Reference is now made to which shows a block diagram of an exemplary implementation of the preferred embodiment of the invention in a social network system such as for example a system alike the Facebook server shown in . The server comprises an input output interface supporting communications with users and other social network services and a media and subscriber database that stores the users posted media chats pictures and other user data. The server further comprises a processor operationally connected to the database and to the input output interface and an instructions repository . The later stores instructions that when executed by the processor cause the later to perform on behalf of the server the actions shown in related to the servers . In particular the instructions cause the processor when the input output interface receive a request for a language used by the server or within certain user groups of the server to determine that or those used or preferred language s by communicating with the database and to return via the input output interface the determined languages as also shown in relation to .

Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the present invention provides for an easy and seamless solution to the posting of messages in various languages through multiple social network systems in a manner that is totally transparent to the user. According to the preferred embodiment of the invention an original message written in a first language may be posted in any language by the sending user and is translated into various other more appropriate languages used by the different communities groups or social media networks across the Internet cloud.

Based upon the foregoing it should now be apparent to those of ordinary skills in the art that the present invention provides an advantageous solution for translation of messages exchanged among social network systems. Although the system and method of the present invention have been described in particular reference to certain preferred embodiments it should be realized upon reference hereto that the innovative teachings contained herein are not necessarily limited thereto and may be implemented advantageously in various manners. For example in a variant of the preferred embodiment of the invention any one of the following possibilities can be used in order to determine in what language the initial message is to be translated the language provided by the social media network site that is most commonly used by that social media network site a language that is most used by the group to which the message is to be posted within a given social media network site. It is believed that the operation and construction of the present invention will be apparent from the foregoing description. While the method and system shown and described have been characterized as being preferred it will be readily apparent that various changes and modifications could be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the claims set forth hereinbelow.

Although several preferred embodiments of the method and system of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the invention as set forth and defined by the following claims.

