---

title: Selection of items from a feed of information
abstract: Example implementations disclosed herein relate to selection of a subset of items included in a feed of information that are perceived to be of interest to a particular user. In some implementations, a feed of information that includes a number of posted items is accessed. In addition, in some implementations, a subset of items perceived to be of interest to a particular user is selected from the feed of information based on a predicted value of each item to the particular user and to a plurality of users of an application used to access the items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08332392&OS=08332392&RS=08332392
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08332392
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100630
---
Given the sheer amount of information available on the World Wide Web and the ease with which this information can be obtained many users suffer from what can be described as information overload. A typical user may access the web to read news stay in touch with friends track his or her investments and perform numerous other tasks. With each source of information including a large number of items it has become increasingly difficult and time consuming for users to locate information that is useful important or otherwise of interest.

As described above it has become increasingly difficult and time consuming for a user to view information that is useful important or otherwise of interest when accessing a feed of information. To address this issue example implementations disclosed herein process a feed of information to generate a personalized feed that contains items likely to be of interest to a given user.

In particular in some implementations a computing device accesses a feed of information that includes a number of posted items accessible to the user via an application. In some implementations the device may then select a subset of items perceived to be of interest to the user. In selecting the items to be included in the subset the computing device may consider a local value of each item to the user and a global value of each item to other users of the application considering a number of possible factors in determining these values.

In this manner various implementations disclosed herein may filter items from a feed of information automatically thereby relieving the user of the burden of sifting through the feed to obtain information that is useful or of interest. In particular by considering the global value of each item to a number of users various implementations include items that are popular among a group of users. Similarly by also considering the local value of the item to the user various implementations ensure that the items are still customized for the particular user. Additional implementations and applications of such implementations will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the following description.

In the description that follows reference is made to the term machine readable storage medium. As used herein the term machine readable storage medium refers to any electronic magnetic optical or other physical storage device that contains or stores executable instructions or other data e.g. a hard disk drive flash memory etc. .

Referring now to the drawings is a block diagram of an example computing device for selecting from a feed of information a subset of items perceived to be of interest to a particular user. Computing device may be for example a web server or other server a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computing device a mobile phone or the like. In the implementation of computing device includes a processor and a machine readable storage medium .

Processor may be a central processing unit CPU a semiconductor based microprocessor or any other hardware device suitable for retrieval and execution of instructions stored in machine readable storage medium . In particular processor may fetch decode and execute instructions to implement the functionality described in detail below.

Machine readable storage medium may be encoded with executable instructions for accessing a feed of information and selecting from the feed a subset of items perceived to be of interest to a particular user. In some implementations instructions may be executed on a server such that the subset of items is selected and transmitted to the client computing device of a requesting user. Alternatively in other implementations instructions may be executed on the client computing device. In such implementations the client computing device may receive the entire feed of information and select the subset of items from the feed for output to the user.

Regardless of the particular implementation machine readable storage medium may include accessing instructions which may access a feed of information that includes a plurality of posted items accessible to a user via an application. Accessing instructions may be triggered initially upon receipt of a request from a user for a personalized feed of information or alternatively when computing device is to prepare a personalized feed in advance. In response accessing instructions may access the feed of information using a number of mechanisms. As one example accessing instructions may directly access a database or other storage construct to obtain the items included in the feed of information . As another example accessing instructions may execute an Application Programming Interface API function that allows for access to the feed of information by an external entity such as device . Other suitable mechanisms for accessing the feed will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

Feed of information may be any source of information that includes a number of separate items of information. For example feed of information may be a collection of items posted to a social networking site. In such implementations the feed of information may contain posts e.g. posts on a blog by the user s friends or posts by other users that the user has permission to access. As another example the feed of information may be a collection of news items e.g. news articles and or links to new articles messages generated by an application e.g. an IT monitoring application items posted in a message board files e.g. documents audio files or video files and or links to documents audio files or video files or any other collection of information. In some implementations the feed of information may itself include items from a combination of feeds which accessing instructions may access individually or through a central source that aggregates the feeds.

As mentioned above each feed of information may include a number of posted items. The feed of information may be for example a Really Simple Syndication RSS feed of audio video and or text a feed of a social networking application a news feed and the like. A posted item in the feed may be any item of information authored by a user or an application. For example in the context of a social networking site each posted item may be a status update a photo a link to an external site an update generated by an application e.g. a social networking game and the like. Similarly the posted item may be a news or opinion article a sports score or a stock quote to name a few examples. Other examples of posted items will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

Each of the items included in the feed of information may be accessible to users via an application. The application may be for example a web based application such as a social networking application a news feed or another similar application accessible using a web browser. Alternatively the application may be a dedicated application running on a computing device such as a mobile phone or personal computer or may instead be a component of the operating system of the user s device.

Machine readable storage medium may also include selecting instructions which may select from the accessed feed of information a subset of items perceived to be of interest to a particular user. In selecting the subset of items selecting instructions may consider at least a predicted value of each item to the particular user and a global value of each item to a plurality of users of the application.

In determining the predicted value of each item to the user i.e. the local value selecting instructions may consider a number of factors. For example selecting instructions may consider a number of past endorsements of a source of the item by the user. The source of an item may be for example a particular application website or type of content. For example the source of an item may be a particular source of news e.g. the New York Times a particular application e.g. a social game in a social networking site a category of post e.g. a status update or photo posting a website linked to in the posted item and the like. An endorsement of a particular source may be for example a selection of an item from the source a reply to an item from the source a forwarding of an item from the source a quoting of an item from the source and an expression of approval of an item from the source. Selecting instructions may for example determine a total number of endorsements of the source in the past or alternatively calculate a reputation score representing a weighted value of the user s interest in the source compared to other sources. An example of a reputation calculation used in some implementations is described in detail below in connection with .

In determining the local value of each item selecting instructions may also consider the number of past endorsements of an author of the item by the user. The author of an item may be for example a particular user or an application that posted the item. Selecting instructions may determine the local value of the author in a manner similar to determining the local value of the source of the item. For example selecting instructions may determine a total number of endorsements by the user of past posts of the author or may calculate a reputation score representing a weighted value of the user s interest in the author compared to other authors.

As mentioned above in determining the value of each item selecting instructions may consider the global value of each item which may also be based on a number of factors. In particular rather than limiting the item value determination to only endorsements by the particular user selecting instructions may also consider endorsements of other users. In some implementations the global value of an item may be determined with reference to all users of the particular application. Alternatively the global value of an item may be determined with reference to a trusted group of peers of the user. For example in an application with social networking capability the global value of each item could be determined with reference to only friends of the user e.g. individuals whom the user has designated as being trusted or otherwise known by the user or another group of users with a predetermined relationship with the user e.g. family classmates colleagues etc. .

As an example of one factor used in determining the global value of an item selecting instructions may consider the total number of endorsements of the item by the plurality of users in the selected group. This number may represent the interest of all of these users in the particular posted item. As an example of another factor selecting instructions may consider a number of past endorsements by the plurality of users of the author of the item. For example selecting instructions may determine a total number of endorsements by all users of past posts of the author or calculate a reputation score representing a weighted value of the users interest in the author compared to other authors. Selecting instructions may similarly consider a number of past endorsements by the plurality of users of the source of the item.

After determining the local and global value of each item selecting instructions may use the determined values to select a number of posted items that are perceived to be of interest to the particular user. As one example selecting instructions may sort the items according to their local and global values using a tiered approach such that a first global or local value determines the initial order with additional values used to break ties. As a specific example of such an implementation selecting instructions may first order the items using the local value and break any ties using the global value.

As another example of a selection methodology when the local and global values are calculated as numerical values selecting instructions may determine a total score for each post and select a number of highest ranked posts from the feed of information . In some implementations selecting instructions may weigh the local and global values differently and in addition may weigh the constituent factors considered in each of the values differently. Further details for a weighting process used in some implementations are provided in detail below in connection with .

After selecting a group of items selecting instructions may further refine the selected items based on a limit on a number of posts and or a specified time window. Alternatively the refinement of the items may be performed in advance by limiting the items for which the local and global values are determined. Regardless of the particular implementation selecting instructions may for example select only a predetermined number of items based on a predetermined maximum number or alternatively based on a number of items specified by a user. Selecting instructions may also limit the posts to a particular time interval based on a time of posting associated with each item. For example selecting instructions may select only items within a particular time window specified by a user e.g. the last 24 hours the last week etc. or alternatively select only items posted since the user last accessed the feed of information .

After applying the local and global value determinations and filtering the selected items as necessary selecting instructions may output the selected subset of items . In particular when computing device is a server selecting instructions may transmit the selected subset of items to the particular user s computing device. Alternatively when computing device is the user s device selecting instructions may provide the subset to a set of instructions that output the selected subset of items to the user.

As with processor of processor may be a central processing unit CPU a semiconductor based microprocessor or any other hardware device suitable for retrieval and execution of instructions stored in machine readable storage medium . Machine readable storage medium may be encoded with executable instructions for selecting from a feed of information a subset of items perceived to be of interest to a user . As with instructions of instructions may select and transmit the subset of items to a client when executing in a server or alternatively may select and output the items when executing in a device belonging to user .

Accessing instructions may operate similarly to accessing instructions of . In particular upon receipt of a request for a personalized feed of information or when preparing a personalized feed in advance accessing instructions may access a feed of information that includes a plurality of posted items accessible to a user . In the implementation of accessing instructions may access the feed of information from a number of tables in database . In particular each record in item records may correspond to a posted item while tables may contain data that may be used in determining level of attention and or reputation values.

Attention reputation determining instructions may determine a number of level of attention values for each item. As described below these values may then be used by selecting instructions in choosing the items perceived to be of interest to the particular user . As an example of one level of attention value determining instructions may determine a level of attention by a plurality of users to each item. As detailed above the plurality of users may be all users of the application or a trusted group of peers of the user e.g. all users with a predetermined relationship with the user . The level of attention may be based on for example a total number of endorsements of each item by the plurality of users. With reference to database determining instructions may determine this attention value by accessing the Endorsements field in item records using a unique item identifier ID as a key.

In addition to the level of attention by all users to each item determining instructions may also determine a global level of attention value for the author of the item and or the source of the item considering the attention of all users in the selected group of users. Thus with reference to database determining instructions may determine the global author attention value by identifying the author of the posted item and obtaining the total number of endorsements by querying global author records using the author identifier. Similarly determining instructions may determine the global source attention value by identifying the source of the posted item and obtaining the total number of endorsements by querying global source records using the source identifier. As an alternative to accessing separately stored global author records and global source records determining instructions may instead traverse all user identifiers in local author records or local source records to determine a sum of the endorsements for each author or source.

Determining instructions may also determine a local level of attention value for the author of the item and or the source of the item considering only attention of the requesting user . With reference to database determining instructions may determine the total number of endorsements of a particular author by the user by querying local author records using the user s identifier and the identifier of the author of the posted item. Similarly determining instructions may determine the total number of author endorsements by the user by querying local source records using the user s identifier and the identifier of the source of the posted item.

As described above each set of records may include an endorsement field. In some implementations a server side application may update the endorsement field for each record as appropriate upon an endorsement by a user . For example when a user selects an item replies to or forwards an item quotes an item or expresses approval of an item the application may increment the endorsements field in item records for the particular item identifier. The application may also appropriately update the endorsements for the user in local records and global records . In some implementations the endorsement may be weighted according to a predetermined level of effort assigned to each type of endorsement. For example a click or selection of an item may receive 1 endorsement point an expression of approval may receive 2 and a reply to or forwarding of an item may receive 3. Other suitable weights for each type of endorsement will be apparent.

In some implementations attention reputation determining instructions may utilize the determined levels of attention to calculate a number of reputation values. In particular in some implementations determining instructions may calculate up to four different reputation values and pass these values to selecting instructions for use in selecting the subset of items most likely to be of interest to the requesting user . These reputation values may be calculated and stored in database in advance or alternatively may be calculated in real time upon receipt of a request from a user . In addition to the following description of each reputation value an example method for calculating a reputation value is described in detail below in connection with .

A first reputation value may be a local author reputation value which may value each author for the requesting user . In determining this reputation value determining instructions may first determine a total number of endorsements by user for all authors by adding up each endorsement value in local author records . Determining instructions may then determine an expected number of endorsements for each author by accessing item records to determine a percentage of the total posted items attributable to the author and multiplying this percentage by the total number of author endorsements by user . Finally determining instructions may compare the actual number of endorsements by user for a particular author to the expected number of endorsements e.g. by subtracting the expected number from the actual number . In some implementations determining instructions may then normalize the resulting values to be real numbers in the range of 1 to 1.

As a specific example suppose that there are 100 posted items in item records attributable to 10 different authors. Further suppose that user has given a total of 20 endorsements to 5 different authors including 5 endorsements to Author and endorsement to Author . If Author has posted a total of 10 items then assuming an even distribution of endorsements per post it would be expected that user would have endorsed posts by Author a total of 2 times i.e. 10 percent of the total author endorsements . If Author has posted a total of 50 items then it would be similarly expected that user would have endorsed posts by Author a total of 10 times i.e. half of the total author endorsements . So in this example the reputation score for Author may be the actual number of endorsements 5 minus the expected number of endorsements 2 for a reputation score of 3. Similarly the reputation score for Author may be the actual number of endorsements 1 minus the expected number of endorsements 10 for a reputation score of 9. These scores would indicate that in general user prefers posts by Author to those of Author .

In addition to the local author reputation value determining instructions may also determine a local source reputation value for each source using local source records a global author reputation value for each author using global author records and a global source reputation value for each source using global source records . For these reputation values determining instructions may consider only endorsements of user in calculating the local source reputation value while using endorsements of all users in a selected group in calculating the global author reputation value and the global source reputation value. The calculation of each of these values may be performed in a manner similar to the procedure described above in connection with the local author reputation value.

Based on the level of attention and or reputation values selecting instructions may select a subset of items most likely to be of interest to the requesting user. As one example described in further detail above in connection with selecting instructions of selecting instructions may use a tiered sorting approach. As another example selecting instructions may determine a total of each of the level of attention or reputation values for each item and select a predetermined number of items with the highest total. In some implementations selecting instructions may assign a weight to each of the levels of attention or reputation values and determine a total for each item as a linear combination of the values.

As with selecting instructions of selecting instructions may further refine the selected items based on a limit on a number of posts and or a specified time window. In particular selecting instructions may select from the highest ranked items a number of items with a time of posting in a particular time range. Alternatively selecting instructions may select a number of items since the user last accessed the feed of information. In addition to time constraints selecting instructions may limit the total number of posted items in the subset based on a predetermined number which may be specified by the user in some implementations.

After selection of a subset of items by selecting instructions transmitting displaying instructions may receive the selected subset of items and take an appropriate action. In particular when computing device is a server instructions may transmit the selected subset of items to the requesting user s computing device. Alternatively when computing device is the user s device instructions may output the subset to the user via a display.

Database may be an organized collection of data containing posted items included in the feed of information. The data included in database may be maintained in one or more storage devices accessible to computing device . As detailed above computing device may directly access database or alternatively access database using an application API defined by the application that provides access to the feed of information. Thus database may be maintained locally to computing device or may be remotely located. It should be noted that the database schema described in detail below may be modified to represent the data in a different manner by for example combining one or more tables or splitting the data into additional tables. Other suitable arrangements for database will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

Item records may store data for each of the posted items included in the feed of information. Each entry in item records may include an item identifier which may operate as a key to uniquely identify the entries. Each entry in item records may also include a time of posting item content e.g. a URL text photos etc. an identifier of the author an identifier of the source the item identifier of a parent item if the current item is a reply and a count indicating the total number of endorsements of the item by all users.

Local author records may store author endorsement data for each user. In particular each entry in local author records may include a user identifier an author identifier and a number of endorsements of the identified author by the identified user. Local source records may similarly store source endorsement data for each user. In particular each entry in local source records may include a user identifier a source identifier and a number of endorsements of the identified source by the identified user.

Global author records may store a total number of endorsements of each author. In particular each entry in global author records may include an author identifier and a total number of endorsements of the identified author by all users. Global source records may similarly store a total number of endorsements of each source. In particular each entry in global source records may include a source identifier and a total number of endorsements of the identified source by all users.

User may be any user with access to the feed of information. As illustrated user may submit a request for a personalized feed of information. This request may include one or more of the user s identifier e.g. a user name or email address a desired number of items and a desired time window. In response to such a request computing device may select a subset of items perceived to be of interest to user and transmit the selected items to the user s computing device or output the items to user .

Method may start in block and proceed to block where computing device may receive an indication to select a subset of items perceived to be of interest to a particular user from a plurality of posted items. Each of the items may be accessible to a plurality of users via an application which may be a web based application e.g. a social networking site a message board a news website etc. or any other application that provides access to a feed of information. In some implementations the received indication may specify a time period from which the items are to be selected. This time period may be specified by the user or alternatively may be the time period since the user has last accessed the feed of information.

Method may then proceed to block where computing device may access a feed of information including the plurality of posted items. Computing device may for example directly access a database or other storage construct to obtain items included in the feed of information. As another example computing device may execute an Application Programming Interface API function that allows for access to the feed of information.

After computing device accesses the items in the feed of information method may proceed to block where computing device may select a subset of items most likely to be of interest to the particular user. In identifying these items computing device may consider for example a predicted value of each item to the requesting user i.e. a local value and a global value of each item to a plurality of users of the application. Each of these values may be based on a number of local or global levels of attention and or local or global reputation values. Furthermore computing device may restrict the selected items to those items with a time of posting within the time period specified in block . Example procedures for selecting the items perceived to be of interest are described in detail above in connection with selecting instructions of . After selecting the subset of items perceived to be of interest to the user within the specified time period method may then proceed to block where method may stop.

Method may start in block and proceed to block where computing device may receive a request from a user to output a subset of N items within a specified time period. This request may be received from a user via for example a web browser a mobile phone application an application running on a desktop or laptop computing device or any other application that may transmit requests to computing device .

After receipt of the request by computing device method may proceed to block where computing device may access a feed of information comprising a plurality of posted items. Computing device may for example directly access a database or other storage construct to obtain items included in the feed of information. As another example computing device may execute an Application Programming Interface API function that allows for access to the feed of information.

After computing device accesses the feed of information method may then proceed to block where computing device may filter the feed of information to include only items within the specified time period. As an example computing device may access the time of posting associated with each item and discard any items with a time of posting outside of the specified time period. As an alternative to receiving and then filtering the items computing device may provide the specified time period as a parameter when accessing the feed of information.

After computing device filters out items that are not in the specified time period method may proceed to block where computing device may determine the local value for each item. In some implementations computing device may determine the local value of each item based on levels of attention of the requesting user. For example computing device may determine the local level of attention of the user to the author of the item and or the source of the item. These levels of attention may be for example a total number of endorsements of a particular author or source by the requesting user. In addition or as an alternative computing device may determine one or more local reputation values which may rate each author and or source with respect to one another based on the user s endorsements. An example of a reputation calculation is described in detail below in connection with .

After computing device determines the local value for each item method may proceed to block where computing device may determine the global value for each item. In some implementations computing device may determine the global value of each item based on levels of attention of all users in a selected group. For example computing device may determine the global level of attention of users to the author of the item and or the source of the item. These levels of attention may be for example a total number of endorsements of a particular author or source by all users. In addition or as an alternative computing device may determine one or more global reputation values which may rate each author and or source with respect to one another based on all users endorsements. An example of a reputation calculation is described in detail below in connection with .

After computing device determines the local and global reputation for each item method may proceed to block where computing device may rank the items based on the local and global values for each of the items. An example process for ranking the items is described in detail below in connection with .

Finally method may proceed to block where computing device may select the N items perceived as being most likely to be of interest to the user from the ranked list of items obtained in block . An example process for selecting these items is described in detail below in connection with . After selecting the items perceived as being most likely to be of interest to the requesting user method may proceed to block where method may stop.

As described in detail below method relates to calculation of a global source reputation value. The method described below may be adapted to the calculation of a local source reputation value a local author reputation value and a global author reputation value. In addition it should be noted that the procedure in method may in some implementations be performed on a periodic basis such that the reputation values may be stored for quick access as necessary. In such implementations method may be periodically executed by the server that maintains the item records.

Method may start in block and proceed to block where computing device may determine the global expected number of endorsements for each source. In other words computing device may calculate a value representing the number of endorsements that would be received for each source assuming an even distribution of endorsements per post. Thus computing device may first determine the total number of posts and the total number of endorsements for all of the sources by the users in the group for which the global value is to be calculated. Then for each source computing device may determine the percentage of the total posts from that source and multiply that percentage by the total number of endorsements. The resulting numbers may represent the expected number of endorsements for each of the sources by the users in the selected group.

Method may then proceed to block where computing device may determine the actual number of endorsements for each source by for example querying one or more tables maintaining this information. Next in block computing device may for each source subtract the expected number of endorsements from the actual number of endorsements to obtain an initial reputation score.

Method may then proceed to block where in some implementations computing device may normalize the difference values obtained in block . As an example of one normalization procedure computing device may first determine the sum of the absolute value of all sources. Computing device may then divide each difference value by the resulting sum to obtain a normalized reputation score between 1 and 1. Method may then proceed to block where computing device may store each calculated reputation value for future access when selecting a subset of items. Finally method may proceed to block where method may stop.

Method may be an example implementation of block of . Accordingly method may be a procedure for ranking a number of items based on their local and global reputation values. Method may start in block and proceed to block where computing device may determine the total number of endorsements by all users of a first selected item. In blocks and computing device may determine the local source reputation the local author reputation the global source reputation and the global author reputation of the item. Computing device may determine these values using the procedure described in detail above in connection with or alternatively may query a location in which these values have been stored.

Method may then proceed to block where computing device may determine a score for the item using a linear combination of weights applied to each of the values. As an example computing device may access a predetermined set of weights containing a weight for each of the values determined in blocks and and multiply each value by the corresponding weight. Computing device may then determine a score for the item by calculating a sum of each of the weighted values.

After determining a score for the item method may proceed to block where computing device may determine whether there are additional items to process. If so method may return to block for processing of the next item. Alternatively method may proceed to block . In block computing device may generate a list of the items ordered by the calculated scores. Method may then proceed to block where method may stop.

Method may be an example implementation of block of . Accordingly method may be a procedure for selecting a group of N items perceived as being most likely to be of interest to a user from a ranked list of items. Method may start in block and proceed to block where computing device may select the next highest ranked item from the ranked list of items.

Method may then proceed to block where computing device may determine whether the author of the selected item has been included in the subset of items a predetermined number of times. This step may thereby ensure that the personalized feed of items is not dominated by posts from a single author.

When computing device determines that the author has been included fewer than the predetermined number of times method may proceed to block where computing device may add the item to a list of items to be included in the subset. In addition computing device may locate any child items of the selected item e.g. replies to the selected item and group them with the selected item in the subset.

Method may then proceed to block where computing device may determine whether the subset of items now includes N items where N is the total number of items to be selected. If so method may proceed to block described in further detail below. If N items have not been selected method may proceed to block also described in detail below.

Referring again to block when computing device determines that the author has already been included the predetermined number of times method may proceed to block . In block computing device may add the item to a list of overflow items. As described in detail below this list of items may later be referenced if it is determined that additional posts from the same author are required to obtain the predetermined total number of posts.

Method may then proceed to block where computing device may determine whether there are additional items to process. If so method may return to block for processing of the next highest ranked item in the ranked list. If there are no additional items to process method may proceed to block .

In block computing device may determine that there are not enough items in the subset of selected items. Accordingly computing device may add N X posts from the list of overflow items where N is the desired total number of posts and X is the number currently included in the subset. Method may then proceed to block where computing device may order the items in forward chronological order i.e. starting with the oldest item and ending with the newest . In these implementations the user may therefore access the items perceived as being of interest in the order they were originally posted. Such implementations are useful when for example the user is accessing the feed after a passage of a period of time e.g. after returning from vacation after a weekend or since an access earlier in the day .

Method may then proceed to block where method may stop. It should be noted that in some implementations method may skip directly to block from block . In these implementations the selected subset of items will be ordered from a highest ranked item to a lowest ranked item.

As illustrated through the use of item number element and time period selection element a user has requested output of the 25 items posted in the last 3 days that are perceived as being most likely to be of interest to the user. Personalized social feed therefore includes a number of posted items each of which was selected based on its local and global values as described in detail above. In particular as illustrated a post by Joe Smith was selected on the basis of endorsements by Ginny Jones and Jimmy Wallace replies in this case and the local value of the item to the user. The local value of post may have been determined on the basis of the user s endorsements of posts by Joe Smith in the past i.e. the author of the item and or on the basis of the user s endorsements of social networking status updates i.e. the source of the item . Similarly a post by Steve Miller was selected on the basis of 12 endorsements clicks in this case of a link to a news article he posted and the local value of the item to the user. The local value of post may have been determined on the basis of the user s endorsements of posts by Steve Miller in the past i.e. the author of the item and or on the basis of the user s endorsements of posts from Nytimes.com i.e. the source of the item . As illustrated by the position of the scroll bar in personalized social feed additional items are available for viewing by the user at a lower position in the window.

According to the foregoing example implementations disclosed herein process a feed of information to generate a personalized feed that contains items likely to be of interest to a given user. In selecting the items to be included in the subset example implementations may consider a local value of each item to the user and a global value of each item to a selected group users of the application considering a number of possible factors in determining these values. In this manner example implementations may filter items from a feed of information automatically thereby relieving the user of the burden of sifting through the feed to obtain information that is useful or of interest.

