---

title: Determining at least one coordinate of an object using intersecting surfaces
abstract: In an embodiment, a coordinate determiner is operable to identify at least first and second surfaces that each approximately intersect an object, and to determine at least two approximate coordinates of the object from the first and second surfaces, where at least one of the surfaces is nonplanar. For example, if the coordinate determiner is disposed on a fighter jet having at least two short-baseline-interferometers (SBIs), then two surfaces may be the surfaces of two cones having two of the SBIs as respective vertices, the object may be a close-in target, and the coordinate determiner may determine the azimuth and elevation of the target from the cone surfaces. Furthermore, the coordinate determiner or another computation unit onboard the jet may determine the slant range of the target from the elevation and the altitude of the jet. The coordinate determiner may at least facilitate ranging of the target quickly enough to allow a pilot sufficient time to evade detection by the target, to destroy the target, or to evade or destroy a projectile fired by the target.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08436762&OS=08436762&RS=08436762
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08436762
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
The present application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 364 480 filed Feb. 2 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 081 106 issued Dec. 20 2011 and of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 498 310 filed Jul. 6 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 164 510 issued Apr. 24 2012 which applications claim priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 61 063 251 61 063 290 61 063 271 and 61 063 207 filed on Jan. 31 2008 now expired. All of the foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. N00019 02 C 3002. Accordingly the United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This Summary is provided to introduce in a simplified form a selection of concepts that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In an embodiment a coordinate determiner is operable to identify first and second surfaces that each approximately intersect an object and to determine at least two approximate coordinates of the object from the first and second surfaces where at least one of the surfaces is nonplanar.

For example if the coordinate determiner is disposed on a fighter jet having at least two short baseline interferometers SBIs then the two surfaces may be the surfaces of two cones having two of the SBIs as respective vertices the object may be a close in target and the coordinate determiner may determine the azimuth and elevation of the target relative to the jet from the cone surfaces. Furthermore the coordinate determiner or another component of the jet s onboard computer system may determine the slant range of the target from the elevation and the altitude of the jet. The coordinate determiner may facilitate ranging of the target quickly enough to allow the jet pilot sufficient time to evade detection by the target to destroy the target or to evade or destroy a projectile fired by the target.

Geometrically speaking the target T lies in an elevation plane which is perpendicular to the jet azimuth plane and which includes the straight line along which His measured. For example in this embodiment the elevation plane may be coincident with the page of .

Referring to the fighter jet typically includes an onboard computer system not shown in for detecting the target T and for determining one or more of the following targeting quantities R H and V. For example the computer system may actively detect and range i.e. determine R for the target T by transmitting a signal e.g. a radar signal that impinges upon and that is reflected back to the jet by the target T and by receiving the reflected signal with a directional antenna not shown in . The computer system may then determine and by analyzing the phase of the received signal at each of multiple elements of the antenna.

Alternatively the onboard computer system may passively detect and range the target T by similarly analyzing a signal emitted by the target T to determine and . Passive detection may be useful for example when the pilot of the fighter jet does not want to alert the personnel manning the target T to the jet s presence or when the target is difficult or impractical to actively detect.

Unfortunately a conventional passive target detection computer system may be unable to range a target with the level of speed and accuracy that is required for applications such as target evasion or destruction e.g. by firing a missile . For example close in targets also called pop up targets may be defined as ground based targets e.g. a hand held rocket launcher that that are within a slant range of approximately 1 20 nautical miles NM of an aircraft such as a fighter jet. But because close in targets may generate only one or a few targeting pulses before firing a passive detection computer system using a conventional technique such as signal to noise ratio SNR analysis may be unable to range the target quickly enough to allow a pilot sufficient time to evade detection by the target to destroy the target or to evade or destroy a projectile e.g. a missile fired by the target.

Discussed below however are embodiments of techniques that a passive target detection computers system may implement to range a target such as a close in target with a level of speed and accuracy sufficient to allow a pilot enough time to evade detection by the target to destroy the target or to evade or destroy a projectile fired by the target.

The SBI is approximately cylindrical and has a length L that is much greater e.g. ten or more times greater than its diameter D.

The SBI also has a longitudinal axis and has a boresight axis which passes through the center of the SBI perpendicular to the longitudinal axis.

In response to a signal received from e.g. a close in target T the SBI generates one or more array signals having respective magnitudes and phases and a computer system may calculate from these array signals the angle that the received signal makes with the boresight axis .

From the angle the computer system may identify a cone having a cone angle and a cone surface that intersects the target T. The cone angle is given by the following equation 90 1 And the cone surface is given by the following equation tan where the z axis is normal to the plane in which of lies.

Still referring to because the SBI may introduce an error into the calculation of the boresight angle the cone surface may not actually intersect the target T but may pass relatively close to T therefore one may say that the cone surface approximately intersects T where approximately means that the cone surface actually intersects T or comes relatively close to intersecting T.

Furthermore this SBI error may be proportional to 1 cos such that the SBI error is a minimum when 0 and is a maximum and may approach infinity when approaches 90 . For example the SBI 1 sigma error value may be approximately 3 when 0 and may be approximately 34 when 85 . One may account for this error when determining one or more coordinates of the target T as discussed below.

Still referring to although the SBI may allow a targeting computer system to quickly determine an accurate value for the computer system may be able to determine an accurate value for in 100 milliseconds ms or less after the SBI receives only a single targeting pulse from the target T alone is insufficient to range or to otherwise identify the location of the target T.

But as discussed below by using a signal received simultaneously by multiple SBIs received sequentially by a single SBI in multiple positions or received sequentially by multiple SBIs in multiple positions a targeting computer system may locate a close in target T with sufficient speed and accuracy to allow a pilot time to evade or destroy the target or a projectile launched by the target.

Each of the SBIs and are mounted approximately in the plane of the wings of the jet such that when the jet is in level flight the SBIs are approximately parallel to the ground not shown in and the z axis components of the SBIs are approximately zero.

The SBIs and are mounted at angles and respectively in the x y plane relative to the nose of the jet and the SBIs and are mounted at angles and respectively in the x y plane relative to the nose.

As discussed in more detail below in conjunction with the SBIs and are positioned to locate targets disposed within a three dimensional region located on the right side of the jet and bounded in part by the longitudinal SBI axes and . Similarly the SBI s and are positioned to locate targets disposed within a three dimensional region on the left side of the jet bounded in part by the longitudinal SBI axes and . Hereinafter the operation of only the SBIs and is discussed in detail it being understood that the operation of the SBIs and may be similar.

Referring to a technique for determining one or more coordinates of a target T using the two SBI s and of is discussed it being understood that the technique may be similar using the SBI s and .

To simplify the mathematics one may assume that the SBI s and emanate from a common point instead of being separated by a non zero distance e.g. 3 20 meters per . Because the target T is much farther away e.g. 1 10 nautical miles than the non zero distance by which the SBI s and are separated this assumption may introduce a manageable or negligible error into the target coordinate calculation.

It is known from Euclidian geometry that the surfaces of two right cones a right cone is a cone the cross section of which is a circle in any plane perpendicular to the cone axis with a common vertex intersect each other along a plane that also intersects the common vertex.

Therefore a signal emitted from the target T defines two right cones and having cone angles and and cone surfaces and that intersect in an elevation plane which is perpendicular to the plane in which lies and which approximately passes through the target and the common point . Because the target T is much farther away than the distances e.g. a few meters or less between the boresights of the SBIs and and the common point one may further simplify the mathematics by assuming that the cones and share a common vertex at the common point and this assumption may introduce only a manageable of negligible error into the coordinate calculation. But this assumption is not shown in .

The angle that the elevation plane makes with the heading is the approximate azimuth angle of the target T relative to the fighter jet .

The computer system not shown in on board the fighter jet may identify the elevation plane using a number of conventional techniques. For example the computer system may determine the elevation plane by solving equation 2 for both cone angles and identifying at least three points that are approximately common to both cone surfaces and and then determining from these common points the elevation plane which is the plane in which these points all approximately lie.

Once the onboard computer system not shown in identifies the elevation plane it may determine the approximate azimuth angle between the jet heading and the elevation plane and thus the approximate azimuth angle of the target T relative to the jet of using one of a number of conventional mathematical techniques.

It is known from Euclidian geometry that two right cones having a common vertex not only intersect along a plane that includes the vertex but also intersect along a hyperbola that lies within this plane of intersection. And it is also known from Euclidian geometry that a hyperbola is an asymptotically bounded curve that is where a hyperbola lies in the x y plane as x and y approach infinity the hyperbola approaches two definable asymptote lines that intersect each other at the common cone vertex.

Therefore the cone surfaces and intersect along a hyperbola which lies in the elevation plane and which approximately intersects the target T and the hyperbola is bounded by two asymptotes and which intersect each other at the common cone vertex .

Therefore where the target T is a ground based target the onboard computer system not shown in of the fighter jet may determine the approximate elevation angle of the target relative to the jet from the asymptote as discussed below.

First the onboard computer system may determine the hyperbola by calculating equation 2 for both cone surfaces and and plotting some of the points approximately common to both surfaces.

Next the onboard computer system identifies the asymptotes and from the hyperbola using a conventional mathematical technique.

Because the target T is typically a significant distance e.g. at least one nautical mile in the y dimension from the fighter jet the onboard computer system may estimate that the target lies on a portion of the hyperbola that is relatively close to the asymptote .

Based on this estimate the onboard computer system may estimate that the approximate elevation angle between the ground based target T and the fighter jet is approximately equal to the angle between the bottom asymptote and an azimuth plane which intersects the center of the jet and which is approximately parallel to the ground.

Furthermore from the elevation angle and the height h of the jet above the ground h may be obtainable from the jet s altimeter the onboard computer system may calculate the approximate slant range R between the jet and the target T from the law of sines according to the following equation sin 3 

Referring to a procedure that the computer system not shown in onboard the jet may implement to estimate and R of the target T relative to the jet is described where the target T is located on the side of the jet from which the SBIs and protrude and within a region at least partially defined by the SBI axes and .

First the SBI s and receive a signal emitted from the target T. For example the target T may be an anti aircraft weapon and the target may emit one or more pulses to lock the weapon on Xthe jet .

Next in response to the signal received from the target T the SBI s and each generate one or more respective signals which the computer system not shown in on board the jet receives.

Then in response to the received signals from the SBI s and the onboard computer system identifies the type of the target T by comparing the signals received from the SBIs with one or more target signatures stored in a look up table not shown in . For example the computer system may identify the target T as a stationary ground based target such as a portable missile launcher.

Further in response to the signals received from the SBIs and the onboard computer system may determine the angles and that the signal emitted from the target T makes with the respective SBIs.

Next using e.g. equation 2 the onboard computer system effectively identifies the surfaces and of the cones and that the angles and define and identifies three or more points in three dimensional space that are approximately common to both of these cone surfaces. As discussed above these points lie approximately along the hyperbola in the elevation plane .

Then from the points approximately common to both cone surfaces and the onboard computer determines the hyperbola the elevation plane in which the hyperbola lies and the hyperbola asymptotes and .

Next as discussed above the onboard computer system determines the approximate azimuth angle to be equal to the angle between the jet heading and the elevation plane and determines the approximate elevation angle to be equal to the angle between the azimuth plane and the lower asymptote again assuming that the onboard computer has identified the target T as a ground based target .

Because in some circumstances the pilot of the jet does not need to know the slant range R the target coordinate determination procedure may end here. For example where the target T may be visible from the jet it may be sufficient to provide the direction of the target T so that the pilot knows where to look for the target.

But if the pilot would also like to know or also needs to know the slant range R then the onboard computer system may determine R according to equation 3 .

Still referring to alternate embodiments are contemplated. For example if the target T emits multiple signals e.g. multiple weapon targeting pulses then the onboard computer system may repeat the above procedure for each of these signals and iteratively determine and or R using e.g. one or more conventional Kalman filters so that and or R converge to values that may be more accurate than the values obtainable by performing the above procedure for only one of the signals emitted by the target. Furthermore the onboard computer system may calculate an indicator of the statistical error e.g. the 1 sigma value for and or R and display this indicator these indicator to the pilot along with the value values of and or R an example of such an errors indicator calculation and display is discussed below . Moreover the onboard computer system may determine one or more coordinates of an air based target e.g. another jet or a missile using a similar procedure but may determine the approximately elevation angle as being equal to the angle between the upper asymptote and the azimuth plane . In addition the computer system may be onboard a vehicle e.g. tank ship spacecraft other than a jet. Furthermore if the terrain is not flat in the region where the target is located then the computer system may adjust the jet altimeter reading to obtain and adjusted value for the height h. The computer system may obtain this terrain data from an onboard look up table.

Referring to it follows from the above discussion in conjunction with that the intersection of the ground and the surface of the cone is a hyperbola that the intersection of the ground and the surface of the cone is a hyperbola and that these two hyperbolas intersect each other only at approximately the target T.

Therefore one can define two lines a first line that lies along the surface of the cone and that approximately intersects the target T and a second line that lies along the surface of the cone and that also approximately intersects the target. Because in Euclidian geometry two non parallel lines can intersect each other only at a single point equations defining the lines can only be equal at the intersection point which is approximately the point where the target T is located. Therefore if one finds the point where the line equations are equal then he finds the point at which the target T is approximately located.

So one may define the normalized directions vectors of the first and second lines and according to the following equations cos 4 cos 5 where is approximately the slant range between the common vertex 80 and the target 6 cos cos 7 cos sin 8 sin 9 the projection of the SBI 54 along the axis 10 the projection of the SBI 54 along the axis 11 the projection of the SBI 54 along the axis 12 the projection of the SBI 56 along the axis 13 the projection of the SBI 56 along the axis 14 the projection of the SBI 56 along the axis 15 

Because there are only two equations 4 and 5 and three unknown coordinates x y and z one may normalize equations 4 9 by setting R 1. Furthermore to simplify the mathematics one may assume that the cone angles and are measured relative to the common vertex and not from the boresights of the respective SBIs and . Alternatively one may measure the cone angles and relative to the respective boresights of the SBI s and or from the ends of the SBI s and remote from the fighter jet and the common vertex . Therefore one may determine and from the normalized equations 4 and 5 as follows.

In an embodiment where the fighter jet is in level flight and SBI and SBI are parallel to the ground when the jet is in level flight then the d d 0. Therefore from equations 4 and 5 one obtains Arctan 16 Arccos cos Arctan 17 

To resolve ambiguities where both a positive and a negative value satisfy equation 16 or equation 17 one may use other available information. For example the onboard computer system knows on which side of the fighter jet the SBIs and are located so it knows that the correct is relative to that side of the jet and the heading . And if the computer system knows that the target T is a ground based target then it knows that the correct points down toward the ground.

Furthermore once the computer system determines the approximate azimuth and elevation and it may determine the approximate slant range R from the altimeter reading h and per equation 3 above.

Still referring to the onboard computer system may also use equations 4 and 5 to determine the approximate coordinates of a target T when the fighter jet is banked in a turn such that at least one of dand ddoes not equal zero or when the jet includes only one SBI or that receives two sequential signals emitted by the target when the SBI is in different positions.

Furthermore as discussed further below the onboard computer system may determine an indicator of the statistical error in any one or more of the determined approximate coordinates of the target T and provide both the coordinates and the one or more error indicators to a pilot of the fighter jet so that the pilot may mentally account for the coordinate error s as discussed for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 498 310 which is incorporated by reference.

The computer system includes a first coordinate calculator a second coordinate calculator a coordinate error calculator and a display . The first coordinate calculator is operable to determine at least two approximate coordinates of a target T from two cone surfaces for example as discussed above in conjunction with and is also operable to determine an error indicator for at least one of the determined approximate coordinates. For example the calculator may determine and according to one of the embodiments described above in conjunction with and may determine a 1 sigma value which is a measure of the statistical error in . The calculator may conventionally compute an error indicator such as based on factors such as the lengths L and L of the SBIs and the cone angles and and the SNR frequency and number of the signal s e.g. pulse s emitted by the target T .

The second coordinate calculator is operable to determine at least one other approximate coordinate of the target T from the at least one of the approximate coordinates determined by the first coordinate calculator and from other information. For example if the first coordinate calculator determines then the second coordinate calculator may determine the slant range R from and the altitude h e.g. provided by an onboard altimeter per equation 3 above.

The coordinate error calculator is operable to determine an error indicator for at least one of the approximate target coordinates calculated by the first and second coordinate calculators and . For example the coordinate error calculator may calculate the percentage error in the slant range R this error may be called the percentage range error PRE according to the following equation 

The display is operable to display the at least two approximate target coordinates from the first coordinate calculator the at least one approximate target coordinate from the second coordinate calculator and the at least one error indicator from the coordinate error calculator . For example the display may display to a pilot of the fighter jet and from the first coordinate calculator R from the second coordinate calculator and PRE from the coordinate error calculator .

The operator not shown in of the vehicle on which the onboard computer system is disposed may use the displayed coordinates and error indicator to determine the location of a target T and the best action to take in response to the target. For example a pilot of the fighter jet may use the displayed and to visually spot a detected target T or may use the displayed R and PRE values to decide whether he has sufficient time to evade detection by the target or to evade a projectile fired by the target or whether the target is in range of a missile or other weapon onboard the jet.

First the coordinate calculator receives one or more signals from each of the SBIs and in response to the SBIs having received one or more signals emitted by a target T. The coordinate calculator or another component of the onboard computer system may first process these signals to detect the target T and determine the target type e.g. stationary ground based target .

Next from the received SBI signals the coordinate calculator determines at least two approximate coordinates of the target T and may also determine an error indicator for at least one of the determined coordinates as discussed above in conjunction with equations 4 17 . For example the coordinate calculator may calculate and . The calculator may determine the coordinates and error indicator once or may iteratively calculate these quantities using for example one or more Kalman filters.

Then the coordinate calculator determines at least one other approximate coordinate of the target T. For example the calculator may determine the slant range R from and h per equation 3 above.

Next the coordinate error calculator determines an error indicator for at least one of the approximate target coordinates determined by the coordinate calculators and . For example the error calculator may determine PRE from and per equation 18 above.

Then the display displays to an operator such as a pilot the target coordinates generated by the coordinate calculators and and the error indicator s generated by the coordinate error calculator .

Still referring to alternate embodiments are contemplated. For example the onboard computer system may determine target coordinates using a two cone technique other than that discussed above in conjunction with . Furthermore the operational embodiments described above may include more or fewer steps than those described and the steps may be performed in an order different than that described. Moreover the onboard computer system may perform any step in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. In addition the computer system may determine target coordinates using two or more intersecting surfaces e.g. one or more nonplanar surfaces where at least one of the surfaces is other than a cone surface.

Unlike the SBI which is assumed to be level when the fighter jet of is in level flight the SBI has a nonzero component din the z dimension which is perpendicular to the page of . In the following discussion it is assumed that the SBI is pointing down toward the ground such that the intersection of the cone surface and the ground is the ellipse . But the following discussion may also apply when the SBI is pointing upward or when it is level such that the intersection of the cone surface and the ground is a hyperbola or a curve other than an ellipse. And the following discussion may also apply where dand dof the SBI and the SBI are non zero and dis either zero or non zero.

Because the hyperbola the hyperbola and the ellipse intersect each other only at approximately the target T one may define three lines that approximately intersect the target T the first line that lies along the surface of the cone the second line that lies along the surface of the cone and a third line that lies along the surface of the cone . Because in Euclidian geometry three non parallel lines can intersect each other only at a single point equations defining the lines can only be equal at a simple point located approximately at the target T. Therefore if one finds the point where the three line equations are equal then he finds the point at which the target T is approximately located. Furthermore because there are three equations and three unknowns the three target coordinates in three dimensional space all three approximate target coordinates may be determined directly and unambiguously without the need to normalize the equations or to use additional information e.g. that the target is ground based to unambiguously determine the target coordinates.

So one may respectively define the first second and third lines and according to the following equations equations that are the same as those discussed above are given new numbers here to avoid confusion cos 19 cos 20 cos 21 where is the approximate slant range between the common vertex 80 and the target and it is assumed that the distance between the SBI 54 and the SBI 54 is small enough to estimate that the vertex 80 is also the vertex of the SBI 54 22 cos cos 23 cos sin 24 sin 25 the projection of the SBI 54 along the axis 26 the projection of the SBI 54 along the axis 27 the projection of the SBI 54 along the axis 28 the projection of the SBI 56 along the axis 29 the projection of the SBI 56 along the axis 30 the projection of the SBI 56 along the axis 31 the projection of the SBI 54 along the axis assuming that the SBI 54 originates at the point 80 to reduce computational complexity 32 the projection of the SBI 54 along the axis assuming that the SBI 54 originates at the point 80 to reduce computational complexity 33 the projection of the SBI 54 along the axis assuming that the SBI 54 originates at the point 80 to reduce computational complexity 34 

Furthermore to simplify the mathematics one may assume that the cone angles and are measured relative to the common vertex and not from the boresights of the respective SBIs and . Alternatively one may measure the cone angles and relative to the respective boresights of the SBI s and or from the ends of the SBI s and remote from the fighter jet and the common vertex . Therefore one may determine x y and z from the following equations 

As discussed further below the onboard computer system may also determine an indicator of the statistical error in any one or more of the determined approximate coordinates of the target T and provide both the coordinates and the one or more error indicators to a pilot of the fighter jet so that the pilot may mentally account for the coordinate error s as discussed for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 498 310 which is incorporated by reference.

The coordinate calculator is operable to determine at least three approximate coordinates of a target T from at least three cone surfaces for example as discussed above in conjunction with and is also operable to determine an error indicator for at least one of the determined coordinates. For example the calculator may determine and R according to one of the embodiments described above in conjunction with and may determine a 1 sigma value which is a measure of the statistical error in one of the determined coordinates. The calculator may conventionally compute an error indicator such as based on factors such as the length of the SBIs and the cone angles and and the SNR frequency and number of the signal s e.g. pulse s emitted by the target T .

The coordinate error calculator is operable to determine an error indicator for at least one of the target coordinates calculated by the coordinate calculator . For example the coordinate error calculator may calculate the PRE according to equation 18 above where .

The display is operable to display the at least three approximate target coordinates from the coordinate calculator and the at least one error indicator from the coordinate error calculator . For example the display may display to a pilot of the fighter jet and R from the coordinate calculator and PRE from the coordinate error calculator .

The operator not shown in of the vehicle on which the onboard computer system is disposed may use the displayed coordinates and error indicator to determine the location of a target and the best action to take in response to the target. For example a pilot of the fighter jet may use the displayed and to visually locate a detected target and may use the displayed R and PRE values to decide whether he has sufficient time to evade detection by the target to evade a projectile fired by the target or whether the target is in range of a missile or other weapon onboard the jet.

First the coordinate calculator receives one or more signals from each of the SBIs and in response to the SBIs having received one or more signals from a target T. The coordinate calculator or another component of the onboard computer system may first process these signals in a conventional manner to detect the target T and determine the target type e.g. a stationary ground based target .

Next the coordinate calculator receives one or more signals from the SBI which as discussed above is the SBI in a different position at a subsequent time. For example SBI position may be due to a change in the attitude e.g. due to a slight pitch roll or wing dip of the fighter jet soon after e.g. within approximately 10 milliseconds to a few seconds after the calculator receives the signals from the SBIs and . Or the SBI may be due only to the movement of the fighter jet along its heading although in some situations a change in attitude between the SBI and SBI positions may allow more accurate determination of the target coordinates.

Then from the received SBI signals the coordinate calculator determines at least three coordinates of the target T and may also determine a statistical measure of the error for at least one of the determined coordinates as discussed above in conjunction with equations 19 42 . For example the coordinate calculator may calculate R . The calculator may determine the coordinates and error indicator one time or may calculate these quantities iteratively using for example a Kalman filter.

Next the coordinate error calculator may determine an error indicator for at least one of the target coordinates determined by the coordinate calculator . For example the error calculator may determine PRE from per equation 18 above.

Then the display displays to an operator such as a pilot the target coordinates generated by the coordinate calculator and the error indicator s generated by the coordinate error calculator .

Still referring to alternate embodiments are contemplated. For example the onboard computer system may determine target coordinates and error indicators using a three cone technique other than that discussed above in conjunction with equations 19 42 . Furthermore the operational embodiments described above may include more or fewer steps than those described and the steps may be performed in an order different than that described. Moreover the onboard computer system may perform any step in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. In addition at least one of the surfaces used may be other than a cone surface.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Furthermore where an alternative is disclosed for a particular embodiment this alternative may also apply to other embodiments even if not specifically stated.

