---

title: Co-polymer films for sensors
abstract: Embodiments include a sensor comprising a co-polymer, the co-polymer comprising a first monomer and a second monomer. For some embodiments, the first monomer is poly-4-vinyl pyridine, and the second monomer is poly-4-vinyl pyridinium propylamine chloride. For some embodiments, the first monomer is polystyrene and the second monomer is poly-2-vinyl pyridinium propylamine chloride. For some embodiments, the first monomer is poly-4-vinyl pyridine, and the second monomer is poly-4-vinyl pyridinium benzylamine chloride. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08338552&OS=08338552&RS=08338552
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 08338552
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101116
---
This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 11 820 472 filed on Jun. 19 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 858 720 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 814 730 filed 19 Jun. 2006.

The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

Gas detecting sensors have many applications. One such application is to detect the presence of a dangerous gas or to detect a gas whose presence indicates a dangerous situation. For example NASA National Aeronautics and Space Association researches are interested in detecting low concentrations of sulfur dioxide SO in closed environments such as for example aboard the international space station or the space shuttle. SOcould be a probable breakdown product from leaking lithium thionyl chloride batteries. SOis a colorless gas or liquid under pressure with a pungent odor. Inhalation or exposure could have adverse effects on human health.

During regeneration of a gas detecting sensor the detected gas is released from the sensor into the environment after detection and after the gas is no longer present in the environment at any appreciable concentrations so that the sensor may be used again. Most of the previously reported sensor materials for SOdetection use relatively harsh conditions for regeneration and operation.

In the description that follows the scope of the terms some embodiments or embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

Substrate may be flexible or rigid and may be conductive or non conductive depending upon the way in which the sorbed gas is detected. Sorption of the gas or gases of interest causes a change in one or more physical properties of film . By measuring this change detection of a sorbed gas may be accomplished provided the change is sufficiently large to allow a measurement.

For example for some embodiments substrate may be formed from silicon dioxide and film includes carbon so that the electrical resistance of the carbon changes depending upon the sorption of gas by the polymer included in film . In this way a resistance measuring device in combination with the system of may provide for the detection of a sorbed gas. Other embodiments may be based upon changes in other physical properties of film . For example sorption of a gas increases the mass of the resulting system so that a measuring device sensitive to mass change may be used in the detection of the sorbed gas. As another example the sorption of gas by a co polymer in film may cause swelling causing dispersion in an acoustic wave traveling through the system comprised of substrate and film . Accordingly an acoustic measuring system may be part of a gas sensor system.

Film includes co polymers according to embodiments. More particularly embodiments include co polymers comprising two monomers. According to some embodiments a co polymer may comprise a combination of vinyl pyridine and substituted vinyl pyridine or styrene derivative units. A co polymer comprising two monomers according to an embodiment is illustrated in . Illustrated in is poly 4 vinyl pyridine monomer and poly 4 vinyl pyridinium propylamine chloride monomer . In the component CHCH of poly 4 vinyl pyridine monomer has a subscript n and the component CHCH of poly 4 vinyl pyridinium propylamine chloride monomer has a subscript m where these subscripts indicate relative molar concentrations. For some embodiments n may range from 0.2 to 0.8 and m may range from 0.8 to 0.2 where n m 1. This molar ratio may vary for other embodiments. It has been found that a range for n of about 0.4 to 0.7 gave interesting results.

For example for one particular embodiment n 0.2 and m 0.8 so that there is one part poly 4 vinyl pyridine to four parts poly 4 vinyl pyridinium propylamine chloride. Such an embodiment was synthesized as follows. 5.25 g 0.05 moles of poly 4 vinyl pyridine a molecular weight of about 200K was dissolved in 25 ml of methanol. The polymer solution was degassed with Nfor 5 min before transferring to a drop funnel. 5 g 0.037 moles of 3 chloropropylamine Cl CH 3NH.HCl were dissolved in 10 ml water and passed through a 3.8 30.5 cm column packed with Dowex M43. Dowex M43 is manufactured by Dow Chemical Company a Delaware corporation with headquarters in Midland Mich. USA and Dowex is a registered trademark of Dow Chemical Company. Prior to use the Dowex M43 column was washed with 10 ml of water and four times with 12.5 ml of methanol. The final 12.5 ml of methanol solution wash had a pH of 7. The resulting total volume of 3 chloropropylamine solution 70 ml 20 ml of water plus 50 ml of methanol was placed in a 500 ml glass reactor. The solution was degassed continuously with N.

The poly 4 vinyl pyridine solution was placed in a dropping funnel by adding drop wise with constant stirring applied to the 3 chloropropylamine solution. The reaction was carried out under a Natmosphere first at 43 C. for 4 hrs and then at room temperature for 40 hrs.

The product solution was poured into a glass dish and methanol evaporated to dryness under a flow of Nat 40 C. Water that separates out was removed continuously. The product was evaporated to dryness and then vacuum dried at 47 C. for 24 hrs.

The above description to synthesize an embodiment with n 0.2 and m 0.8 is merely an example of one method. Other synthesis methods may be used to provide such an embodiment or other embodiments.

As another example an embodiment may have relative molar concentrations of n 0.5 and m 0.5 so that there are equal parts of poly 4 vinyl pyridine and poly 4 vinyl pyridinium propylamine chloride. Such an embodiment was synthesized as follows. 5.25 g 0.05 moles of poly 4 vinyl pyridine a molecular weight of about 200K was dissolved in 25 ml of methanol in a flask. The polymer solution was degassed with Nfor 5 min before transferring it to a drop funnel. 3.25 g 0.025 moles of 3 chloropropylamine Cl CH NH.HCl was dissolved in 10 ml of water and passed through a 3.8 by 30.5 cm column packed with Dowex M43. Prior to use the Dowex M43 column was washed with 10 ml of water and four times with 12.5 ml of methanol. The final 12.5 ml methanol wash had a pH of 7. The total volume of 3 chloropropylamine solution 66 ml 16 ml of water plus 50 ml of methanol was placed in a 500 ml glass reactor. The solution was degassed continuously with N.

The poly 4 vinyl pyridine solution was placed in the dropping funnel by adding drop wise with constant stirring applied to the 3 chloropropylamine solution in the reactor. The reaction was carried out under Natmosphere first at 43 C. for 4 hrs and then at room temperature for 40 hrs.

The product solution was poured into a glass dish and methanol was evaporated in a hood at 40 C. with N. The evaporation was continued until a dry polymer film was obtained. Water that separates out was removed continuously from the dish. Finally the polymer film in the glass dish was vacuum dried at 60 C. for 64 hrs.

The above description to synthesize an embodiment with n 0.5 and m 0.5 is merely an example of one method. Other synthesis methods may be used to provide such an embodiment or other embodiments.

A co polymer according to another embodiment is illustrated in with polystyrene monomer and poly 2 vinyl pyridinium propylamine chloride monomer . The subscripts n and m may vary over range of values as described with respect to the embodiments represented by . An embodiment according to for n 0.3 and m 0.7 was synthesized as follows. A readily available co polymer material polystyrene poly 2 vinyl pyridine was used as a starting material. illustrates a polystyrene poly 2 vinyl pyridine monomer. 7.33 g 0.07 moles of a copolymer of polystyrene poly 2 vinyl pyridine containing 0.049 moles of the pyridine group was dissolved in 40 ml of methanol in a flask and degassed with Nfor 5 min and then transferred to a drop funnel.

9.1 g 0.07 moles of 3 chloropropylamine Cl CH NH.HCl with a molecular weight of about 130K were dissolved in 40 ml of water and passed through a 1.5 by 12 inch Dowex M43 column. The Dowex M 43 column prior to use was washed four times with 30 ml of methanol. The final methanol wash had a pH of 7. The total volume of 3 chloropropylamine solution 160 ml was placed in a 500 ml glass reactor. The solution was degassed continuously with N.

The co polymer solution was placed in a dropping funnel and added drop wise constantly stirring the 3 chloropropylamine solution in the reactor. The reaction was carried out under Natmosphere at room temperature for 40 hrs and at 43 C. for 24 hrs.

The solution after reaction was poured into a glass dish and methanol was evaporated in a hood with Nat 43 C. Water that separates out was removed continuously from the dish. The evaporation was continued until a dry polymer film was obtained. Finally the polymer film in the glass dish was vacuum dried at 60 C. for 24 hrs.

The above description to synthesize an embodiment with n 0.3 and m 0.7 is merely an example of one method. Other synthesis methods may be used to provide such an embodiment or other embodiments.

One particular embodiment n 0.5 and m 0.5 where there are equal parts of poly 4 vinyl pyridine and poly 4 vinyl pyridinium benzylamine chloride was synthesized as follows. 5.25 gm 0.05 moles of poly 4 vinyl pyridine molecular weight of about 200K was dissolved in 50 ml methanol in a flask. The polymer solution was degassed with Nfor 5 minutes before 3.9 gm 0.025 moles of 2 4 chlorophenyl ethyl amine 98 pure was added drop wise. The reaction was carried out under N with constant stirring at 43 C. for 4 hrs and then at room temperature for 106 hrs.

The product solution was filtered and placed into a glass dish and methanol evaporated in a hood at 40 C. with N. The evaporation was continued until dry polymer film was obtained. The polymer film in the glass dish was vacuum dried at 60 C. for 24 hrs.

The above description to synthesize an embodiment with n 0.5 and m 0.5 is merely an example of one methods. Other synthesis methods may be used to provide such an embodiment or other embodiments.

It was found that the above described embodiments are of utility in the detection of SOgas. For example for an embodiment according to it was found that for n m 0.5 SOwith concentrations as low as 0.2 ppm was detected. Furthermore films based upon the above described co polymers allow for regeneration at temperatures below 40 C. Embodiments are not necessarily limited to the detection of SOgas. For example the described embodiment co polymers may find utility in sensors for Hg CO organic and inorganic vapors and other gases. Furthermore the described embodiments may not necessarily be limited to detecting gas but may be of utility in detecting liquids such as possibly detecting organic solvents.

The sensors described above may be integrated in a system for detecting gas. One such embodiment is illustrated in . The sensor chamber includes a co polymer film according to the described embodiments. When the device is operating air is pumped from the surroundings into the sensor chamber. The air is directed either through activated charcoal filter which is put in line to provide clean air for baseline data or though a dummy filter of glass beads dummy filter which is put in line to provide a pressure drop similar to that due to charcoal filter . Solenoid valve is programmed to open the path to charcoal filter and provide clean airflow for a pre selected period of time at selected time intervals otherwise the air is directed through filter . Air then enters the sensing chamber and resistance is measured. Deviations from the clean air baseline are recorded as changes in resistance of the sensor in the sensor chamber. Other embodiments may measure physical properties other than resistance.

The microcontroller and data acquisition module controls the various components measures resistance and records the acquired data which may include analog to digital conversion. Bus provides an interconnect to other external components such as a computer.

It should be appreciated that the chemical compositions illustrated in the above described embodiments are particular examples and that co polymers may be synthesized with different monomers than those described above or with the same monomers but in different combinations. As a particular example referring to a poly 4 vinyl pyridinium propylamine chloride monomer may be substituted for poly 2 vinyl pyridinium propylamine chloride monomer . The synthesis is similar to that described with respect to except that a solvent comprising both methanol and THF tetrahydrofuran may be used.

More generally monomer belongs to a family which may be termed a pyridinium alkyl amine halide family monomer belongs to a family which may be termed a pyridine family monomer belongs to a family which may be termed a polystyrene and monomer belongs to a family which may be termed an aryl pyridinium alkyl amine halide. Accordingly other embodiment co polymers may be synthesized in which other monomers from these families make up the co polymers.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Accordingly various modifications may be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below.

