---

title: Haptic device for telerobotic surgery
abstract: A haptic device for telerobotic surgery, including a base; a linkage system having first and second linkage members coupled to the base; a motor that provides a motor force; a transmission including first and second driving pulleys arranged such that their faces form an angle and their axes form a plane, first and second idler pulleys offset from the plane and arranged between the first and second driving pulleys such that their axes divide the angle between the first and second driving pulleys, and a cable that traverses the first and second driving pulleys and the set of idler pulleys and transfers the motor force to the linkage system; an end effector coupled to distal ends of the first and second linkage members and maneuverable relative to the base; and a controller that modulates the motor force to simulate a body part at a point portion of the end effector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924009&OS=08924009&RS=08924009
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08924009
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100311
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 159 350 filed 11 Mar. 2009 which is incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.

This invention relates generally to the haptic device field and more specifically to an improved haptic device for telerobotic surgery.

Telerobotics in which a robot is controlled from a distance is an area of robotics that is useful in many applications such as in surgery. Telerobotic systems consist of a master robot and a slave robot. In surgery the surgeon directly controls the master robot which results in motion of the slave robot at the patient. The master robot and slave robot which are physically separated may be close to each other e.g. in the same room or remote from each other e.g. on different continents .

In replicating the environment found in a conventional procedure the user interface of the master robot ideally accommodates the desired motions of the surgeon i.e. includes sufficient degrees of freedom and mechanically simulates the feel and touch of the actual environment i.e. provides haptic feedback . To provide haptic cues actuators in the slave robot typically generate an opposing force against a user manipulated item such as a grasper or stylus. These forces are transmitted from the actuators to the stylus through a haptic device transmission. Haptic device transmissions ideally have minimal friction minimal inertia minimal or no cogging and grinding high stiffness and no backlash. Haptic devices have historically included cable and pulley transmissions which most effectively address theses requirements.

However simply providing haptic feedback is not enough during certain procedures such as those requiring high bandwidth haptics in which the tactile feedback to the user is updated at a high frequency. For example haptics with low inertia and high bandwidth are advantageous in microsurgery which typically involves procedures performed by hand under a microscope. This is due in part to the low mass and low inertia of microsurgical tools and in part to the subtle high frequency haptic cues used for navigation. As one illustrative example a stapedotomy during which the surgeon drills a hole in the stapes footplate in the ear for the insertion of a prosthesis is ideally performed with a haptic device having high bandwidth and low inertia. In this procedure care must be taken to avoid perforating the cochlear membrane behind the stapes making a stapedotomy analogous to drilling through an eggshell without puncturing the membrane inside the egg. The haptic cue that a surgeon monitors to avoid damaging the cochlear membrane is the sudden drop in mechanical resistance on the drill during penetration of the bone. Low bandwidth haptic devices are by definition slower to respond and would potentially mask this cue and possibly increase the incidence of complications if used as telerobotic masters.

Thus there is a need in the haptics field to create an improved haptic device for surgery with lower effective inertia and higher bandwidth which may also be adapted to use in a wider range of types of robotic surgery and simulation. This invention provides such an improved haptic device for surgery.

The following description of preferred embodiments of the invention is not intended to limit the invention to these preferred embodiments but rather to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use this invention.

As shown in the haptic device of the preferred embodiment includes a base a linkage system including a first linkage member and a second linkage member at least one motor that provides a motor force to drive the linkage system a transmission that transfers the motor force to the linkage system and includes a set of driving pulleys a set of idler pulleys and a cable that traverses the set of driving pulleys and the set of idler pulleys an end effector coupled to the first and second linkage members and maneuverable relative to the base no and a controller that modulates the motor force to simulate a body part at the end effector. The haptic device preferably has six degrees of freedom and provides haptic feedback by applying force vibration and or other suitable mechanical stimulation to a surgeon or other user which assists in simulation of body tissue or any suitable virtual object. The user interface feel of the haptic device preferably resembles a light surgical tool with similar mass and inertial properties. The haptic device preferably provides a haptic environment with low effective inertia and high bandwidth suitable for us during telerobotic surgery particularly microsurgery in which surgery is performed on a microscopic scale. During use in telerobotic surgery the haptic device is preferably a slave robot through which a user controls a master robot that performs motions resulting from manipulations of the slave robot by the user. However the haptic device may be used during other kinds of robotic surgery other telerobotic applications simulation and or any suitable haptics application.

The base of the haptic device functions to form a ground member for the linkage system and to provide support for the haptic device on a surface. As shown in the base preferably includes two walls that ground and support the motors and linkage system preferably grounding the first linkage member on one wall and grounding the second linkage member on another wall. However the base may alternatively include a single wall or surface that grounds both linkage members. The base no is preferably adapted to mount to a workspace such as a table desk or wall such as with brackets screws adhesives or any suitable fasteners. Alternatively the base may include magnets or a heavy weight to secure the base to a workspace and may allow the haptic device to be operable in a broader range of environments which may be particularly useful for some telerobotic applications. The base may be made of one piece or multiple pieces that are attached together and or to the workspace.

The linkage system of the preferred embodiment functions to allow the end effector to be maneuvered relative to the base . The linkage system preferably includes a first linkage member and a second linkage member that are coupled to the base . The first and second linkage members are preferably similar and more preferably mirror versions of each other but may alternatively be different structures of different designs. Each of the linkage members preferably has three degrees of freedom that are adapted to be actuated. As shown in each linkage member is preferably a serial jointed three revolute RRR manipulator. However each linkage member may be any suitable kind of linkage. Such robot kinematics are familiar to those skilled in the art. At least some segments or portions of the linkage members are preferably hollow or provide a passageway for the cable of the transmission to route to particular joints of the linkage members. In a preferred embodiment which may be particularly designed for telerobotic haptic surgery the workspace facilitated by the linkage system is preferably small enough to avoid singularities common to RRR mechanisms wrist lock elbow lock and head lock and to not disrupt function of the haptic device.

The motors of the preferred embodiment functions to provide a motor force that is used to drive or actuate the linkage system to provide haptic feedback to the user. The haptic device preferably includes at least one motor per degree of freedom. In the preferred embodiment the haptic device includes seven motors including six linkage motors and one distal motor within the end effector. The motors preferably have low rotor inertia and low friction in particular low stiction to help accurately simulate the feel of a light surgical tool. Lower rotor inertia results in a lower effective joint inertia since the effective inertia of each joint in the haptic device is proportional to rotor inertia. Similarly lower motor stiction results in a lower effective joint stiction since effective joint stiction of each joint in the haptic device is proportional to motor stiction. Both effective joint inertia and effective joint stiction are also functions of mechanical advantage at each joint which is dependent on the torque provided by the motor and the amount the torque that each joint must provide to result in a desired maximum force applied to and felt by the user. As shown in the linkage motors are preferably mounted on the base such that the linkage motors are physically grounded to minimize their effective tool inertia but the linkage motors may alternatively be located in any suitable location throughout the device. As shown in three linkage motors and are preferably coupled to the first linkage member such that each of these linkage motors drives one of three degrees of freedom of the first linkage member. Three linkage motors and are preferably similarly coupled to the second linkage member such that each of these linkage motor drives one of three degrees of freedom of the second linkage member. As kinematic analysis will show the combined linkage system of the two linkage members joined by the end effector has five fully actuated degrees of freedom. The distal motor in the end effector preferably actuates a sixth degree of freedom of the haptic device thereby eliminating a planar singularity in the kinematic analysis that exists without the distal motor. In one specific embodiment the linkage motors are Maxon RE 25 motors and the distal motor is a Maxon RE 13 motor.

Each of the motors is preferably paired with an encoder that monitors the position and or velocity of the motor. To better simulate the environment of the master robot the haptic device preferably has a task space resolution similar to that of the actual environment. In order to obtain a high effective resolution the encoders are preferably coupled in direct drive with the motors and have a resolution on the order of 10 000 cycles per revolution since a lower mechanical advantage preferably has encoders with correspondingly higher resolution to compensate and result in a high effective resolution. However to increase effective resolution of an encoder with an inherently lower resolution the gain from the motor to the encoder may alternatively be increased with a suitable mechanical advantage. Alternatively the motor to encoder mechanical advantage may be lower and the encoders may have lower resolution such that the haptic device has any suitable level of resolution. The encoders may be relatively inexpensive LED encoders having a high resolution. In a specific embodiment the LED encoders include encoder wheels with lines so narrow that the resultant analog signal resembles a sine wave and may be read by using an interpolation method of quantization thresholding to select values of the sine wave to drive a square wave encoder output signal. This interpolation method preferably improves LED encoder resolution by as much as 20 times. Alternatively the encoders may be laser encoders or any suitable kind of encoder and may have inherently relatively high resolution and or be read in the conventional direct manner.

The transmission of the preferred embodiment functions to transfer motor force to the linkage system . The transmission is preferably a cable drive transmission that includes four instances of a group of a set of driving pulleys a set of idler pulleys and a cable that traverses the set of driving pulleys and the set of idler pulleys and is coupled to the motor force and the linkage system . The four instances of sets of driving pulleys idler pulleys and cable are preferably similar but may alternatively be different. Two instances are preferably used to drive the first linkage member and two instances are preferably used to drive the second linkage member. The cable drive transmission is preferably compact designed to minimize the amount of free length of cable in the transmission the total cable length that is not engaged with a driving pulley an idler pulley or other driving or routing element thereby increasing bandwidth of the haptic device. A compact transmission also reduces the overall size of the haptic device and improves portability.

In each instance of pulley set groups as shown in the set of driving pulleys preferably includes a first driving pulley and a second driving pulley that are arranged such that their faces form an angle and their axes of rotation and respectively form a plane . As best shown in the angle is preferably a right angle but may alternatively form any suitable angle. Each of the first and second driving pulleys and is preferably double grooved such that each preferably includes a pair of circumferential pulley grooves. The pair of circumferential pulley grooves preferably includes a forward groove that accommodates a forward cable path for the cable traversing towards the linkage system and a reverse groove that accommodates a reverse cable path traversing away from the linkage system . The driving pulleys are preferably constructed of a lightweight rigid material such as aluminum but may alternatively be constructed of any suitable material. The driving pulleys are preferably relatively large to be able to transmit a given torque to a linkage member joint with smaller changes in cable tension which results in overall greater stiffness and consequently higher bandwidth for the haptic device. The driving pulleys preferably have holes cut into their bodies to remove mass which allows the driving pulleys to be larger without significantly increasing device inertia.

As best shown in the set of driving pulleys preferably further includes a third and a fourth driving pulleys and may further include additional driving pulleys although in some embodiments the set of driving pulleys may consist of only the first and second driving pulleys. A third driving pulley preferably is coupled to the motor and includes a recess in the body of the third driving pulley that facilitates coupling to one or both ends of the cable thereby coupling the cable to the motor force. As shown in the recess is preferably in a face of the pulley and is adapted to receive a stop e.g. a block end of the cable but the recess may alternatively be located in any suitable location on the third pulley. Alternatively the third driving pulley may include a fastener such as a clasp be adapted to adhere to the cable end such as by adhesive welding or brazing or be adapted to couple to the cable end in any suitable manner. A fourth driving pulley is preferably adjacent to the second driving pulley and may be located on a linkage member such that the cable traverses the fourth driving pulley .

In each instance of pulley set groups as shown in the set of idler pulleys preferably includes a first idler pulley and a second idler pulley . The first and second idler pulleys are preferably offset i.e. spaced apart from the plane that is formed by the axes of rotation and of the first and second driving pulleys and . As shown in the first and second idler pulleys and are preferably offset or spaced apart from the plane in opposite directions such that they are on opposite sides of plane from one another. The first and second idler pulleys and are preferably similarly sized offset or spaced apart from the plane by equal distances and aligned with each other across the plane such that the combination of the first and second driving pulleys and the first and second idler pulleys is substantially bilaterally symmetrical across the plane . However the first and second idler pulleys may alternatively be offset by unequal distances and or be different sizes. As shown in the first and second idler pulleys and are preferably arranged between the first and second driving pulleys and such that a projection of the axis of each of the first and second idler pulleys onto plane divides the angle formed by the first and second driving pulleys and more preferably substantially bisects the angle to help guide the cable around the angle. Since the angle formed by the first and second driving pulleys is preferably a right angle the first and second idler pulleys and are preferably arranged at a degrees angle relative to the first and second driving pulleys and . As shown in the first and second idler pulleys and are preferably arranged relative to the first and second driving pulleys and such that the first and second idler pulleys and share a tangent line with one or both of the first and second driving pulleys making the transmission further compact. One of the first and second idler pulleys is preferably aligned with the forward grooves of the first and second driving pulleys and the other idler pulley is preferably aligned with the reverse grooves of the first and second driving pulleys. To accommodate both the alignment and the tangential arrangement one of the idler pulleys is preferably slightly larger than the other idler pulley. For example as best shown in idler pulley may be aligned with the inside forward grooves of the driving pulleys and and idler pulley may be aligned with the outside reverse grooves of the driving pulleys and . To maintain tangential alignment as shown in idler pulley is preferably slightly larger than idler pulley . One advantage of the tangential arrangement of driving pulleys and idler pulleys is the minimized space that the cable must span when traversing between a driving pulley and an idler pulley thereby increasing bandwidth of the haptic device and resulting in an improved haptic interface with more frequently updated haptic cues to the user. Another advantage of this arrangement is less cable deformation as the cable traverses between a driving pulley and an idler pulley resulting in less friction as the cable moves and contributing to a lower effective inertia and lighter feel for the user.

The set of idler pulleys may further include additional idler pulleys in suitable locations to help orient the cable. The idler pulleys and are preferably made of a lightweight material similar to that of the driving pulley material but may or may not have holes. The idler pulleys are preferably smaller than the driving pulleys and more preferably have a diameter approximately half or less than half of the diameter of the driving pulleys such that the first and second idler pulleys when arranged in the transmission do not extend beyond the boundaries of the first and second driving pulleys.

In each instance of pulley set groups the cable is preferably braided wire rope which provides more flexibility for routing around the pulleys in the transmission. The specific kind of braiding and diameter of the wire rope may depend on the diameter of the driving and idler pulleys the cable bend radius required to traverse the pulleys the width of pulley grooves on the driving pulleys the specific arrangement of the driving and idler pulleys and or any other suitable characteristic of the transmission. However any suitable cable string or other flexible lengths may be used in the transmission. The cable is preferably one continuous length but may alternatively be separate lengths whose ends are fastened to and traverse the driving and or idler pulleys.

As shown in a second instance of the pulley set groups denoted with b is preferably stacked adjacent to a first instance denoted with a of the pulley set groups to drive the first linkage member. The sets of driving and idler pulleys of the first instance preferably form an inner pulley layer that drives one degree of freedom of the first linkage member and the sets of driving and idler pulleys of the second instance preferably form an outer pulley layer that drives another degree of freedom of the first linkage member. The inner pulley layer and the outer pulley layer are preferably parallel such that the driving pulleys and of both pulley layers form substantially equal angles. Similarly third and fourth instances of the pulley set groups are preferably stacked adjacent to each other to drive two degrees of freedom of the second linkage member.

As shown in to drive a first degree of freedom of the first linkage member in which the linkage segment axially rotates relative to the linkage segment a first cable preferably traverses the driving and idler pulleys in the forward cable path in the following order 1 originates from and routes within the forward groove of the driving pulley that is coupled to the shaft of motor in direct drive 2 routes within forward groove around driving pulley 3 routes around idler pulley aligned with the forward grooves of the driving pulleys and respectively 4 routes within forward groove around driving pulley 5 routes within forward groove around driving pulley and 6 routes through linkage segment C of the first linkage member to the joint between linkage segments and C. The cable preferably traverses the driving and idler pulleys in reverse order in the reverse cable path in the following order 7 routes through the linkage segment C 8 routes within reverse groove around driving pulley 9 routes within reverse groove around driving pulley 10 routes around the idler pulley 11 routes within reverse groove around driving pulley 12 routes within reverse groove around the driving pulley and 13 terminates in driving pulley . Furthermore as shown in to drive a second degree of freedom of the first linkage member in which linkage segment rotates relative to the linkage segment a second cable preferably traverses the driving and idler pulleys in the forward cable path in the following order 1 originates from and routes within the forward groove of driving pulley that is coupled to the shaft of motor in direct drive 2 routes within forward groove around driving pulley 3 routes around idler pulley aligned with forward grooves of driving pulleys and 4 routes within forward groove around driving pulley 5 routes within forward groove around driving pulley and 6 routes through linkage segment to the joint between linkage segments and . The cable preferably traverses the driving and idler pulleys in the reverse cable path in the following order 7 routes through linkage segment 8 routes within reverse groove of driving pulley 9 routes within reverse groove of driving pulley 10 routes around idler pulley 11 routes within reverse groove of driving pulley 12 routes within reverse groove of driving pulley and 13 terminates in driving pulley . To drive a third degree of freedom of the first linkage member motor preferably rotates the first linkage member in direct drive. The first second and third degrees of freedom of the second linkage member are preferably driven in a similar manner as those of the first linkage member. Variations of the cable paths include every combination and permutation of the driving and idler pulleys. Although in the forward cable path is the inner pulley track and the reverse cable path is the outer pulley track in some embodiments the forward cable path may be the outer pulley track and the reverse cable path may be in the inner pulley track . The forward cable path may include either of the first or second idler pulleys and the reverse cable path may include either of the first and second idler pulleys. Furthermore the forward and or reverse cable paths may include fewer than all of the driving and idler pulleys present in the transmission.

The end effector of the preferred embodiment functions as the piece manipulated by the user. As shown in the end effector preferably includes a handle portion and a point portion opposite the handle portion. The handle portion of the end effector is preferably adapted to be held or manipulated by the user and is preferably a stylus grasper or other suitable instrument that simulates operation of a surgical tool or instrument such as a scalpel drill clamp or any suitable instrument that may be on the master robot. The point portion is the portion at which the effective forces transferred through the transmission and linkage system most closely resemble the simulated environment e.g. the feel of a body part during surgery . The end effector is preferably coupled to the distal ends of the first and second linkage members and and is adapted to maneuver relative to the base . As shown in the distal ends of the first and second linkage members and are preferably coupled in the point portion of the end effector preferably separated by less than about 25 of the length of the effector. In one specific embodiment the distal ends of the first and second linkage members and are separated on the end effector by approximately one inch. The connection or joining of the linkage members to the same end of the end effector increases workspace and minimizes device interference with the user s hand while maintaining the ability to render to the user an amount of torque that is consistent with the torques observed during surgery. Alternatively the first and second linkage members and may be attached to opposite ends of the effector one linkage member coupled to the handle portion and the other linkage member coupled to the point portion which increases the amount of torque that the device can render to the user which may be desired for different kinds of procedures or simulations. By joining the distal ends of the linkage members the end effector connects the serial linkage members and in parallel. Serial mechanisms exhibit exceptional range of motion with minimal workspace intrusion and parallel mechanisms exhibit exceptional stiffness and low inertia for a given desired device force output. By combining serial mechanisms in a parallel structure the hybrid kinematic design of the haptic device provides an optimal balance of high stiffness low inertia high range of motion and low workspace intrusion.

The controller functions to modulate the motor force of each motor to simulate a virtual object at the point portion of the end effector. The controller preferably takes into account the force output of the haptic device at the end effector and may analyze the torque felt by the user maneuvering the end effector with a torque array resulting from kinematic analysis of the linkage system and end effector. Suitable analyses and control mechanisms are known to one skilled in the art. The controller preferably modulates the motor force such that the haptic device preferably provides an amount of force and torque as shown in respectively in all directions that are appropriate and sufficient for the purposes of microsurgery and other simulates on a similar scale.

As a person skilled in the art will recognize from the previous detailed description and from the figures and claims modifications and changes can be made to the preferred embodiments of the invention without departing from the scope of this invention defined in the following claims.

