---

title: Dynamic switching between software and hardware graphics rendering for power consumption
abstract: An apparatus and method for providing a user interface are provided. The method includes determining a status of the mobile terminal, and rendering a user interface using one of the software mode and the hardware mode based on the status of the mobile terminal. Accordingly, because a hardware mode provides a high quality user interface but requires more power as compared to the software mode, the mobile terminal is able to reduce power consumption by automatically switching to the software mode based on the status of the mobile terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903366&OS=08903366&RS=08903366
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08903366
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20100301
---
The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for rendering graphics. More particularly the present invention relates to an apparatus and method for efficiently rendering graphics depending on various parameters.

Mobile terminals were developed to provide wireless communication between users. As technology has advanced mobile terminals now provide many additional features beyond simple telephone conversation. For example mobile terminals are now able to provide additional functions such as an alarm a Short Messaging Service SMS a Multimedia Message Service MMS E mail games remote control of short range communication an image capturing function using a mounted digital camera a multimedia function for providing audio and video content a scheduling function and many more. With the plurality of features now provided a mobile terminal has effectively become a necessity of daily life.

Another feature of mobile terminals that has been improved with the advances in technology is the use of 2 Dimensional 2D and 3 Dimensional 3D displays. Many mobile terminals now include sophisticated 2D and 3D graphics accelerator hardware that can render high quality graphics at a very high speed. Use of such graphics accelerator hardware allows the mobile terminal to incorporate a complex user interface such as a 2D or 3D interface. For example a mobile terminal may include a 2D or 3D interface that allows for an enhanced menu screen the ability to play advanced games and the like thus enhancing the user s interaction with the mobile terminal.

However while the 2D or 3D interface provides greater user convenience the graphics accelerator hardware requires a significant amount of power to operate properly. Accordingly if the graphics accelerator hardware is used extensively the battery of the mobile terminal may require frequent recharging based on the increased power requirement. On the other hand if it is desired to provide a longer battery life a software module may be used to provide a 2D or 3D interface rather than dedicated graphics accelerator hardware. However with the use of the software module it becomes very difficult to provide an interface that greatly improves the user s interaction with the mobile terminal.

One proposed solution to address the problem of improving the user interface while reducing power consumption is the implementation of dynamic voltage scaling. With dynamic voltage scaling the voltage supplied to the graphics hardware is increased or decreased depending upon various conditions. For example if increased user interface performance is desired the amount of voltage supplied to the graphics hardware is increased while a lesser amount of voltage is supplied if increased performance is not required. However dynamic voltage scaling requires hardware modification which is difficult to implement and does not provide sufficient flexibility.

Accordingly there is a need for an apparatus and method for providing an improved user interface while reducing power consumption in a mobile terminal.

An aspect of the present invention is to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention is to provide an apparatus and method for efficiently providing a user interface.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a method for providing a user interface in a mobile terminal having a software mode and a hardware mode is provided. The method includes determining a status of the mobile terminal and rendering a user interface using one of the software mode and the hardware mode based on the status of the mobile terminal.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an apparatus for providing a user interface in a mobile terminal having a software mode and a hardware mode is provided. The apparatus includes a control unit for determining a status of the mobile terminal and for rendering a user interface using one of the software mode and the hardware mode based on the status of the mobile terminal.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of exemplary embodiments of the invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions are omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the invention. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of exemplary embodiments of the present invention are provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

The following exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described as applied to a mobile terminal However it is to be understood that this is merely a generic term and that the invention is equally applicable to any of a mobile phone a palm sized Personal Computer PC a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Hand held PC HPC a smart phone an International Mobile Telecommunication 2000 IMT 2000 terminal a wireless Local Area Network LAN terminal and the like. Accordingly use of the term mobile terminal should not be used to limit application of the present inventive concepts to any certain type of apparatus or device.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention include an apparatus and method for efficiently rendering a user interface based on parameters of a mobile terminal. As will be described in more detail below an exemplary mobile terminal exploits the fact that a user interface need not be supported by high speed dedicated hardware at all times in order to provide an acceptable display. By considering various parameters of the mobile terminal such as a power level demands of an application and information regarding a currently executed user interface an exemplary implementation of the present invention is able to automatically select between a higher speed high power hardware mode and a slower speed lower power software mode to provide the user interface.

Referring to a mobile terminal includes an input unit a display unit a power unit and a control unit .

The input unit includes a plurality of alphanumeric keys that allow a user to select various inputs for manipulation of the mobile terminal. The input unit may further include any of various soft keys function keys a menu button a cancel button a delete button an OK button a talk button an end button an Internet button a navigation key button a direction key button a plurality of function keys such as a character input key and the like. Also the input unit may include one or more touch sensors for providing user input. The input unit provides input data corresponding for example to a key pressed by a user to the controller .

The display unit displays a user interface including status information generated during operation of the mobile terminal a limited number of letters a moving image still images and the like. The display unit may include a color Liquid Crystal Display LCD . In this case the display unit may include a controller for controlling the LCD a video memory in which image data is stored and an LCD element. If the LCD is provided as a touch screen the display unit may perform a part or all of the functions of the input unit .

The power unit provides power to the control unit for activating circuits included therein. In an exemplary implementation the power unit denotes a battery of the portable terminal. Furthermore the power unit includes circuitry for determining an amount of available power such as the battery voltage and the like. Such information determined by the circuitry is provided to the controller . Furthermore the power unit is not limited to a battery and may further include a port for externally connecting an AC power adaptor as well as circuitry for regulating the external power and the like.

The control unit performs processing and control for general operations of the mobile communication terminal. For example the control unit performs processing and control for voice telephony and data communication. Furthermore according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the control unit controls the provision of a user interface in one of a hardware mode and a software mode. The control unit includes a 3 Dimensional User Interface 3D UI Library and a Dynamic Power Management Unit DPMU . The 3D UI Library and the DPMU will be explained in more detail below.

Referring to the control unit includes a 3D UI Library and a DPMU . The 3D UI Library includes Application Programming Interfaces APIs that allow the various applications run by the mobile terminal to render a user interface. For example the 3D UI Library includes APIs to interact with a music player a video player a phonebook and other applications that are run by the mobile terminal. The 3D UI Library is based on an Open Graphics Library Embedded System GL ES which provides for full function 2D and 3D graphics on embedded systems. More specifically OpenGL ES consists of subsets of desktop OpenGL and provides a flexible and powerful low level interface between software and graphics acceleration.

The 3D UI Library runs in one of two operation modes. The first mode is a hardware mode in which the 3D UI Library renders a user interface using 3D acceleration hardware. In the hardware mode using the 3D acceleration hardware a user interface can be provided at a higher speed but requires additional power to support the acceleration hardware. The second mode is a software mode in which the 3D UI Library renders the user interface using software routines. In the software mode the user interface cannot be provided as quickly as with the acceleration hardware. However in the software mode the acceleration hardware can be powered off to reduce power usage and thus reduce the frequency of battery recharging.

To support the hardware and software modes the 3D UI Library respectively includes a Hardware HW UI Engine and a Software SW UI Engine . The HW UI Engine provides dedicated hardware for rendering a 2D or 3D graphical interface. The HW UI Engine renders a user interface at a high speed but requires additional power. The SW UI Engine also renders a 2D or 3D graphical interface. However and in contrast to the HW UI Engine the SW UI Engine renders a user interface at a slower speed than the HW UI Engine but does not require the additional power necessary for the HW UI Engine .

Based on their respective speed capabilities and power requirements the mobile terminal is able to automatically select one of the HW UI Engine and the SW UI Engine for rendering a graphical interface. That is as will be explained in more detail below the HW UI Engine and SW UI Engine are automatically selected by the 3D UI Library depending on various system parameters.

The DPMU is provided to receive the various system parameters as input and to determine which of the HW UI Engine and SW UI Engine should be used to provide a user interface based on the received input. That is the DPMU dynamically switches between the HW UI Engine and SW UI Engine based on the received input. In an exemplary implementation the DPMU receives information regarding an application that is executed by the mobile terminal statistical information regarding the user interface and information regarding the amount of available power. Using the received information the DPMU determines which of the HW UI Engine and SW UI Engine should be used to provide the user interface.

For example the DPMU may receive input that the mobile terminal is executing a music player application. In this case the input received by the DPMU may include information regarding an update frequency of a user interface based on the status of the music player application. For example if the music player is in a status in which it is displaying various albums from which a user may make a selection its update frequency may be higher than in a status in which it is playing back a selected file. More specifically the music player may include a file selection function in which the UI visually illustrates a plurality of album covers and allows a user to scroll through the album covers by means of a touch screen. Accordingly during the selection function the update frequency of the user interface is increased. Conversely in a music playback function the music player application may statically illustrate a single album cover corresponding to the file being played a playback timer as well as various control keys such as a stop key a pause key a next track key and the like. Accordingly in the playback function the update frequency of the user interface is decreased. The DPMU includes an API so that the application in this case the music player application can provide the information regarding the update frequency of the user interface. Using the received input of how often the application needs to update the user interface the DPMU automatically selects one of the HW UI Engine and the SW UI Engine . Because the HW UI Engine is able to more quickly update the user interface if the DPMU receives input that the user interface requires a higher update frequency the DPMU will select the HW UI Engine depending on other system parameters. On the other hand if the DPMU receives input that the user interface does not require a higher update frequency the DPMU will select the SW UI Engine .

The DPMU may also receive information regarding current operating parameters of the user interface. More specifically the DPMU may receive information such as statistical information regarding the user interface update frequency. If based on the received information the DPMU determines that the user interface update frequency falls below a threshold the DPMU may select the SW UI Engine for providing the user interface. On the other hand if the DPMU determines that the user interface update frequency is above the threshold the DPMU may select the HW UI Engine for providing the user interface.

Furthermore the DPMU may receive input regarding the amount of available power from a power unit. For example the DPMU may receive information regarding the voltage level available from a battery of the power unit. In that case the DPMU may determine if the available voltage is below a power threshold. If the DPMU determines that the available power is below the power threshold the DPMU may select the SW UI Engine for providing the UI. On the other hand if the DPMU determines that the available power is above the power threshold the DPMU may select the HW UI Engine for providing the UI.

In each of B and C the mobile terminal includes an application a display unit a power unit and a control unit . As described above the control unit further includes a 3D UI Library and a DPMU and the 3D UI Library includes an HW 3D Engine and a SW 3D Engine .

The application may include any of a plurality of applications executable by the mobile terminal at the selection of a user. For example the application may include a music player as described above a phone book function a messaging function an Internet function a function downloaded by the user and the like. Generally the application provides an output to the control unit in order to render an appropriate image. The remaining components of have been described above with reference to and will not be described again for sake of convenience.

Referring to application is in a condition in which it requires a high frequency of updates in order to render a desired user interface. For example if application corresponds to a music player application it may be in a condition in which a user is able to select an album for playing. In that situation the music player application may display a plurality of album covers on display unit and provide the user with the ability to quickly scroll through the album covers in order to select a desired album. Thus the application would require a high frequency update in order to adequately display the plurality of album covers as part of the user interface. The application provides this information to the DPMU through its connection to the control unit .

As also illustrated in the power unit is in a Full status. In that condition the power unit is able to not only supply adequate power to the control unit for general operations of the mobile terminal but also able to supply adequate power to the HW 3D Engine . The Full status may include conditions in which the battery of the power unit is fully charged the voltage of the battery of the power unit is above a threshold or the power unit is connected to an external power source. If the Full status corresponds to a threshold voltage of the battery the threshold may include a threshold that is initially set by the manufacturer or a threshold that is set by a user. The power unit provides this information to the DPMU through its connection to the control unit .

The DPMU also receives information from the 3D UI Library . More specifically the DPMU receives information regarding parameters of a currently executed user interface. For example the DPMU may receive information regarding the update frequency of a user interface currently being provided. Based on the received information the DPMU determines which of the HW 3D Engine and SW 3D Engine to select for providing the user interface. That is if the DPUM determines that the user interface update frequency falls below a threshold the DPMU may select the SW UI Engine for providing the user interface. On the other hand if the DPMU determines that the user interface update frequency is above the threshold the DPMU may select the HW UI Engine for providing the user interface.

As illustrated in because the DPMU receives information that the power unit has a Full status and that the application requires a high frequency update the DPMU selects the HW 3D Engine to render the user interface. Again the HW 3D Engine is able to render a user interface at a significantly faster speed than the SW 3D Engine . Accordingly because the application indicates there is a need for high frequency updates and because the power unit indicates there is sufficient power to support not only the control unit but also the HW 3D Engine the DPMU selects the HW 3D Engine .

Referring to application is in a condition in which it does not require a high frequency update in order to render a desired user interface. For example if application corresponds to a music player application it may be in a condition in which the user has selected an album for playing and a music file is currently being played. In that situation the music player application may statically display the cover of the album selected by the user function keys such as a stop key a next track key and the like and a timer indicating information regarding the status of the file being played on the display unit . Thus the application would require low frequency updates in order to properly display the corresponding data. The application provides this information to the DPMU through its connection to the control unit .

The DPMU also receives information that the power unit is in a Full status as described above and information from the 3D UI Library regarding status information of the user interface such as an update frequency of the user interface.

As illustrated in although the DPMU receives information that the power unit has a Full status the DPMU selects the SW 3D Engine to supply the user interface to the display unit . The DPMU selects the SW 3D Engine based on the information received from the application . More specifically the DPMU selects the SW 3D Engine based on the information that the application does not require a high frequency update for its user interface. In such a situation the SW 3D Engine is able to render an adequate user interface despite its slower rendering speed as compared to the HW 3D Engine . Accordingly the SW 3D Engine is able to provide an adequate user interface for user appreciation without expending power that would otherwise be needed to support the HW 3D Engine thus reducing power consumed from the power unit and reducing the frequency of battery recharging.

Referring to power unit is in a condition in which its power level is Low. For example the voltage of the battery of the power unit may be below a threshold set by the manufacturer or user or the power unit may be disconnected from an external power source. The power unit provides this information to the DPMU through its connection to the control unit .

Having received the information from the power unit that its power level is Low the DPMU will select the SW 3D Engine . That is the DPMU will select the SW 3D Engine independent of the status of the application .

Although not illustrated in the DPMU also receives information from the 3D UI Library regarding a currently provided user interface. For example the 3D UI Library may provide statistical information such as an update frequency of a currently executed user interface to the DPMU . Based on the received information the DPMU may select one of the HW 3D Engine and the SW 3D Engine . More specifically if the DPMU receives information that the update frequency of a currently executed user interface falls below a threshold the DPMU may select the SW 3D Engine for providing the user interface. In that case the DPMU would select the SW 3D Engine because of its ability to support the lower update frequency while requiring less power than that required by the HW 3D Engine . Of course the DPMU would also consider other information received from for example the power unit or the application as input for determining which of the HW 3D Engine or SW 3D Engine to select.

As an example DPMU may receive status information from the application that it requires a high frequency update to support its user interface. The DPMU may also receive status information from the power unit that it is Full. Based on these two pieces of received information the DPMU would select the HW 3D Engine as discussed above with reference to the description of . However if in a substantially same situation the DPMU also received information from the 3D UI Library that the update frequency of a user interface currently being executed was below a threshold the DPMU may select the SW 3D Engine despite the request of the application for a high frequency update and the Full status of the power unit . In such a situation the DPMU would dynamically switch from the HW 3D Engine to the SW 3D Engine thus reducing power consumed from the power unit while adequately supporting the user interface.

Similarly in a situation substantially the same as illustrated in if the DPMU received information from the 3D UI Library that the update frequency of a currently executed user interface was above a threshold the DPMU would select the HW 3D Engine to provide a faster rendering of the user interface. The DPMU would switch from the SW 3D Engine to the HW 3D Engine despite information received from the application that a user interface having low frequency updates was required.

Finally if as illustrated in the DPMU receives input that the power unit has a Low status the DPMU will continue use of the SW 3D Engine regardless of any input received from the 3D UI Library indicating that the update frequency of a currently executed user interface is above a threshold.

As discussed above the Full status of the power unit may be based on a threshold set by a manufacturer or a user. Furthermore in an exemplary implementation the control unit may provide an option to select the HW 3D Engine despite the Low status of the power unit . Such an option may be presented to the user when the battery voltage of the power unit falls below a power threshold when the power unit is disconnected from an external power source when the mobile terminal is first powered on and the like.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

