---

title: Method and apparatus for group coordination of calendar events
abstract: An approach for managing calendar information received from a plurality of data sources is described. Calendar information associated respectively with a plurality of data sources is retrieved by a calendar management platform. For each of the data sources, metadata specifying a contributor of the corresponding calendar information and for relating distribution of the calendar information is determined. Based on the first and second metadata, a data view for the calendar information is generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09117204&OS=09117204&RS=09117204
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09117204
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
Typical calendar applications allow users to schedule events arrangement meetings plan out tasks and activities and keep track of important dates e.g. birthdays anniversaries etc. . Group and enterprise based calendar applications also are routinely used to facilitate peer to peer scheduling of events. For example a user may schedule a meeting and select a group of attendees from an enterprise list to invite. Each of the attendees selected receive the meeting request to their respective calendar views. Users may also employ entirely different calendar applications to manage their other roles tasks or responsibilities. For example a user may use an online calendar for maintaining and scheduling school events while employing an entirely different calendar application for personal or family use. Unfortunately as independent tools events posted to one calendar are not automatically applied to the other calendars. Still further there is no way to coordinate and share calendar information among different associated peers who may also employ a myriad of calendar applications.

A preferred apparatus method and software for managing calendar information received from a plurality of data sources is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to calendar applications it is contemplated that these embodiments have applicability to any software application capable of receiving input pertaining to events tasks and activities to be coordinated respective to a specified time frame as well as outputting data pertaining to events tasks and activities to be coordinated respective to a specified time frame. This includes project management software personal planning applications customer relationship management CRM tools event planning software to do list applications appointment tracking applications as well as other like technologies that are available for direct execution by a computing device or accessible for operation by a computing device via a network e.g. online tools .

In another example data sources may pertain to third party data sources which may comprise one or more servers application platforms and or hosted solutions for providing calendar information with respect to a calendar application . The calendar application may be implemented as an online network or web based application or service that is accessed from a graphical user interface GUI of the user devices . Content may also be provided by the third party data source in connection with a calendar application . By way of example the third party data source may provide content pertaining to a venue specified in connection with a scheduled event content pertaining to directions of a location for a scheduled meeting articles associated with a scheduled task etc. In certain embodiments content is any data capable of being rendered presented and or manipulated by a user device and particularly that for use in connection with supporting calendar applications . It is noted in certain instances that content may be provided as calendar information associated with calendar information as metadata or a combination thereof.

As presented data sources pertain to both physical user devices and network based sources . For illustration purposes the term data sources will pertain to either of these representations for the conveying and or generating calendar information unless expressly stated. Also in certain embodiments calendar information includes any data for use by a calendar application and for representing as an event task person group or activity in association with a schedule. By way of example data pertaining to a specific event e.g. meeting concert or social function may include a date a start and end time a subject or name of the event a location or physical resource for hosting the event a recurrence setting a status setting e.g. out of office free busy a priority setting a response urgency one or more associated users or groups an event category a note or other data. In the context of a calendar application associated with customer relationship management CRM project management production planning or other tools calendar information may also include customer profile data sales transaction data human resource records work orders inventory lists trend data or the like.

Still further calendar information may also pertain to metadata for enabling execution of a calendar application and . As will be discussed later the metadata may be useful for specifying a contributor of the corresponding calendar information relating to distribution of the calendar information specifying a filter for a type of event to output to a user group according to the distribution etc. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that calendar information pertains to any of the above described examples including metadata for being applied to or generated by a calendar application and . Calendar information may be stored to a respective data storage of the devices along with any related content for subsequent retrieval by respective calendar applications and . Data storage can take various forms of memory as explained with respect to or be external to the user devices 

Typically a user may employ calendar applications for maintaining details regarding their events and or activities. For example a user may use an employer or enterprise provided calendar application e.g. Outlook Lotus Notes internal tools for scheduling and maintaining data regarding work related tasks. Such applications may be configured to the employer s network therefore enabling calendar information among co workers and other affiliates e.g. peers to be shared readily. Under this scenario users may post meetings to a calendar for all to see interact and share meeting and event information schedule and reserve facility resources etc. Consequently interactivity among users around the calendar application is only possible when the users are subscribed to the same network and use the same calendar application. External users who may also happen to use different calendar applications cannot readily partake in the shared viewing scheduling or coordinating of calendar information.

The ability of a single user to exchange relevant calendar information with a plurality of different calendar applications they may execute via their user device is also limited. By way of example a user may not feel comfortable posting social non work related events and activities to the employer provided calendar application due to privacy concerns. However the user may employ an external calendar application for scheduling personal or social events and activities such as birthday reminders parties scheduled to dos and social gatherings. The user s calendar application may be installed on their personal computer or may be accessed as through a browser as an online calendar application that is integrated with their social network. As independent and unrelated calendar applications there is no way for the user to facilitate the exchange of shared calendar information or correlate data entries. Still further as the functions formats capabilities and data types of applications vary translation of calendar information from one application to another is not easily achieved.

To address this issue the system of allows different calendar applications to synchronize and or share calendar information with one another for affecting both individual and group data views respective to a calendar application. By data view it is meant to reference in certain embodiments the presentment of a calendar view inclusive of calendar information for detailing scheduled events. A data view may also pertain to means for rendering to a graphical representation of calendar information including metadata in a manner suited for execution by a particular calendar application. Hence a data view for one type or brand of calendar application may be different than that of another even though it pertains to the same set of calendar information. This is due to the different design and functional differences between calendar applications. Nonetheless devices that are actively configured to registered with or subscribed to a calendar management service i.e. as maintained by a service provider can exchange calendar information and metadata associated therewith other users groups via their different calendar applications facilitating shared data viewing of relevant calendar information for individual users and peers.

By way of example the calendar management service may include a calendar management platform that is accessible by user devices over a service provider network . The calendar management platform maintains user profile data that is useful for enabling a subscribing user to readily engage others via their user devices for sharing calendar information including associated metadata or content in association with their individual calendar application . In addition the calendar management platform also maintains calendar information provided by or accessed by the calendar application of the various user devices so as to perform further analysis and processing of calendar data. As will be discussed later on for example the calendar management platform can correlate calendar information of different types of calendar applications. This may include ensuring commonality and mapping of data types data descriptors entry fields and data formats. Calendar information as it pertains to a single user or others associated with an event may also be referenced within user profile data e.g. associated with an established user account along with a calendar application type. One user profile record can therefore be linked to that of another user e.g. a peer for enabling the calendar management platform to facilitate peer based calendar information sharing and access across different devices and calendar applications.

It is contemplated that user devices may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs Smartphone or any combination thereof. Also user devices can support any type of interface for supporting the presentment of data views respective to one or more different calendar applications. Examples of typical calendar applications may include installed and or network solutions such as Microsoft Outlook or Lotus Notes online tools such as Google Calendar e mail editor based calendar applications event planning tools such as Evites and various proprietary scheduling systems. In general user devices may feature a browser or portal application for enabling network communication and access to content and online calendar applications . In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating calendar information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms and the like. Any known and future implementations of user devices are applicable.

In certain embodiments user devices the calendar management platform and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

According to exemplary embodiments end user devices not shown may be utilized to communicate over system and may include any customer premise equipment CPE capable of sending and or receiving information over one or more of networks . For instance voice terminal may be any suitable plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. whereas mobile device or terminal may be any cellular phone radiophone satellite phone smart phone wireless phone or any other suitable mobile device such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket personal computer tablet customized hardware etc. Further computing device may be any suitable computing device such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone session initiation protocol SIP phone IP phone personal computer softphone workstation terminal server etc.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user devices may be configured to establish connectivity with one another via a local area network LAN for providing one or more wireless connections. By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

In one embodiment the authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the calendar management platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to a calendar service for receiving the data view of a specific user. The request may pertain to the receiving of a data view for a calendar of the requesting user or another user configured to the calendar management platform via the service provider network . Authentication may include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input from a user device via a graphical user interface presented to a user by the calendar management platform e.g. by a user interface module not shown .

Access by a user to a different user s calendar or to a different calendar application of said user i.e. as representative different data views may be performed based on a permission or affiliation basis. Under this scenario restrictions or permissions may be allowed based on a common reference identifier or other value. By way of example one permission setting may enforce that only users with common events i.e. that are tagged with the same calendar identifier value may be correlated and enabled access to differing data views. Another permission setting may call for common affiliation wherein only users and or events belonging to the same group are enabled access on differing data views. Additionally users may feature a common tag representative of the group to which they mutually belong such as a work group planning group team family name department or any other designation. In another example the authentication module may rely on a device identifier associated with a user device . Tags identifiers and other data pertaining to a user or users may be referenced by the authentication module in a user profile accordingly. It is noted that the authentication module may facilitate first time calendar management service subscriptions as well as authenticate coordinate peer data view accessibility. It is also noted that the authentication module authenticates coordinates accessibility of data views associated with the various calendar applications of use by a single user.

In one embodiment a data source retrieval module periodically synchronizes with data sources e.g. to retrieve calendar information pertaining to a user and or related peers. Periodicity settings may be established as part of a user profile . Data retrieval may include acquiring calendar information input by peers at their respective user devices for inclusion in a data view of another user s calendar. This may also include retrieving calendar information input by the user to a calendar application at the user device for inclusion in a data view of a different calendar application of the users. By way of example when a subscribing user inputs calendar information representative of an event into a calendar application at their disposal the module retrieves this data and stores it as calendar information in connection with a particular user profile. As another example when a peer inputs calendar information representative of a group event associated with multiple different users the module retrieves and stores the data as calendar information in connection with all applicable user profiles

Still further the data source retrieval module can retrieve third party content specified by a user in their profile that is associated with calendar information. By way of example the content may include really simple syndication RSS feed data media data subscription based content maps directional data etc. As mentioned previously such third party content may be integrated for use in connection with calendar information for impacting the data view. The types of content sources thereof and means of presentment of said content relative to a data view will vary depending on features and functions of the calendar application as well as the services to which the user subscribes. It is noted that the data source retrieval module may be configured to retrieve profile data indicative of a given calendar application type or brand employed by the user file convention information and any other data that can be used to accommodate varying data needs.

In one embodiment a data correlation module parses and correlates various data types received as calendar information from different data sources e.g. user devices third party data sources . By way of example different calendar applications feature similar and at times different data types data fields and descriptors. In addition different applications may generate calendar information and maintain records conforming to differing file formats. Hence data types fields and descriptors from one calendar application are mapped by the data correlation module to different calendar applications for enabling seamless aggregation of data types and proper exchange of calendar information. Also the data correlation module ensures compatibility of file types. By way of example calendar application file types correlated or aligned by the data correlation module for mobile based applications computer applications and web based applications may include iCal .ICS .CAL .DAT .DBA .CBF .CCE .CE .DP .MPC .ORG .XML .JS text and ASCII file formats. It is noted that the data correlation module is configured to perform data mapping and normalization of calendar information data types.

It is further noted that the data correlation module may also correlate calendar information received from a multitude of data sources with the user profiles of peers. For example if a particular data field is received as calendar information for two different users the correlation module can correlate the user profiles of the different users based on the common occurrence of the data field. By way of example the correlation may be on the basis of a common group identifier event identifier company designation etc.

Also operable in connection with the data correlation module is the formatting module . In one embodiment the formatting module conditions the received calendar information to be passed along to other calendar applications for execution in accord with multiple output formats including E ink PDF JPEG etc. While this execution can be performed concurrently with the data correlation module the formatting module also accounts for the unique placement of data items for affecting a data view. By way of example when information is presented in a particular order in a data view associated with one calendar application the formatting module conditions calendar information generated by a different application so that it conforms to this data view. Actions performed by the formatting module may include the rendering and placement of graphic elements to a display of a user devices the rendering and placement of textual data color and contextual features and other graphic primitives that influence a data view. Of particular note the formatting module ensures data views for a given application are maintained properly with respect to different calendar applications despite the type of calendar information received from the data sources.

In one embodiment the data aggregation module merges updates and generates the correlated calendar information into a final data set for use in generating a data view. By way of example a data view may include presentment of multiple event entries against a weekly or monthly calendar view. When event entries are contributed by various data sources for inclusion with a user s data view these events are aggregated and compiled accordingly by the data aggregation module . As another example a single event represented as calendar information for a user may be updated to reflect changes e.g. addition or subtraction of data for impacting presentment of that event as a data view. Changes may include a rescheduled date or time a changed location added notes or document attachments an updated meeting attendee list or status etc. All data required for generating a data view is aggregated and when required transcoded accordingly by the data aggregation module to ensure accurate portrayal of scheduled activities.

In one embodiment a data view generator module compiles the aggregated calendar information into a data view corresponding to a particular user and enables outputting of the data view to user devices . Per the formatting module the data view is generated and presented as required for the particular calendar applications of one or more receiving users as directed by the data view generator module . The data view generator module may access various application programming interfaces APIs and other functions for facilitating presentment of data relative to the operating system of the executing user device . Of note the data view generation module also allows users to switch between multiple online calendar aggregations for a particular user. For example a data view conforming to a first calendar application of the user and a second data view conforming to a second calendar application of the same user is provided by the data view generator module . By generating different data views the user is able to view data according to their particular calendar viewing preference. Each view though conforming to a different calendar application can feature the same aggregated calendar information e.g. events tasks reminders as the other.

It is noted that while multiple different data views may be generated for a user corresponding to a user profile e.g. the user employs multiple different calendar applications other peers authenticated accordingly by the authentication module may also be given permission to view the user s calendars. Under this scenario the data view generator module generates a view corresponding to the various different calendar applications of the authorized peers where each peer is associated with a unique user profile . The data views generated for the peers by the module will include calendar information as aggregated for the peer and the user.

In one embodiment the various protocols data sharing techniques and the like required for enabling collaborative execution between user devices over the communication network defined by one or more combinations of networks is provided by way of a communication module . As the various user devices may feature different communication means the communication module allows the calendar management platform to adapt to these needs respective to the required protocols of the network . In addition the communication module may appropriately package data for effective receipt by respective user devices . By way of example the communication module packages data views generated by module for transmission to respective user devices .

In certain embodiments a controller module is configured to regulate the communication processes between the various modules including data exchange and timing control where appropriate. The controller module may also facilitate the pushing and pulling of data to and from the various databases and as required for execution of a particular module . Also the controller module generates the appropriate signals to control the communication module for transmission over the service provider network to which a telephony network may be implemented. The carrier network such as in the case of the user device being a mobile phone may be configured by way of the telephony or wireless network to enable radio frequency RF communication. Alternatively in the case of the user device being a computing device such as a laptop tablet personal computer or the like the controller module facilitates execution of control signals via the communication module via the data network appropriately.

As mentioned previously the calendar management platform maintains user profile data that is useful for enabling a subscribing user device to readily engage participant users devices for sharing synchronized content. While contents of the user profile has been indicated throughout in general the user profile data may include data for characterizing and defining a user including the user s role father coach student grandparent etc. group affiliations e.g. family team accounting team book club peer users associated with a given group identifier values user related statistics and preference data contact information authentication codes and values etc. The user profile may also indicate device profile information for specifying device characteristics and capabilities such as the amount of memory type of display input capability processing capacity etc. Other device characteristic data may include device identifier values calendar application brand and type file formats operating system and API characteristics etc.

Furthermore the calendar management platform maintains calendar information that is generated by generated for or related to one or more calendar applications and as obtained from various data sources. While discussed throughout the calendar information includes any data useful for characterizing scheduled events activities and tasks relative to a time frame. By maintaining profile data and calendar information specific calendar details may be appropriately associated with individual users and peers for enabling sharing of data views. It is noted therefore that the calendar management platform may be provided as a service by a service provider e.g. wireless services provider internet service provider customer relationship management service provider business intelligence service provider project management data management service .

Upon receipt of calendar information the various modules of the calendar management platform may interact with one another in the manner described above including parsing correlating multiple data sources and types as received converting calendar information to a common format grouping calendar information e.g. events based on commonality between user profiles and generating data views for group or individual user consumption at respective user devices . In another interaction the calendar management platform sends the generated data view to the user device . It is noted that in the case of group calendar interaction and sharing the data views may also be shared with related data sources per interaction . This can include sharing of the data view with peer user devices that have an interest in or relationship to the user of device . The sharing process may be based on permissions settings for instance. Interactions and between the calendar management platform user device and data sources may be performed automatically upon generation of the data view. Alternatively the interaction may be performed on a request basis as initiated by a calendar application. In either execution the received data view enables individual users to view the most pertinent relevant calendar information for all related peers. It is noted the interactions may facilitate a means of calendar information updating and synchronization across multiple different data sources user devices and calendar applications for multiple users.

It is noted that in certain instances yet another metadata e.g. a third metadata specifying a filter for a type of event to output to a user group according to the distribution may be determined from the received calendar information. By filtering users into groups events may be directed to only users having common defined group characteristics or limited to those having a relation to the designated event. Next a data view as in step is generated for the calendar information based on the first metadata and second metadata and possibly the third metadata . Per execution of modules of the calendar management platform the data view is generated to be compatible with one or more different calendar applications at the disposal of a receiving user device. Upon generating the data view the calendar management platform may initiate transmission of the data view to corresponding devices such as the user device of a particular user peers related to the user or the other related data sources.

As shown in in step of process the calendar management platform receives a request from a data source e.g. a user device to subscribe to a calendar service for receiving the data view. In step the calendar management platform also receives information relating to one or more devices configured to output the calendar information. The calendar information includes a plurality of calendar events as generated by various data sources. In step to facilitate distribution of the calendar events the calendar management platform tags the calendar events for classification into one of a plurality of user groups. The tags may serve as specific data types or descriptors for referencing specific users.

In this example the Parent takes part in their child s little league soccer team and desires to know when games and practices are scheduled to occur. The Coach of the soccer team maintains an online calendar for the team which is accessible from his user device and presentable to the device display. All parents are given the appropriate permissions e.g. login password permissions for accessing the online calendar maintained by the Coach . The Parent however while having access to the online calendar or an instance thereof typically employs a calendar application integrated on his mobile device which features its own interface characteristics design features etc. Although the Coach operates a different calendar application than the parent both subscribe to the calendar management service for enabling peer coordination of scheduled activities across user group and application platforms. Hence in accordance with the exemplary techniques presented earlier updates to the online calendar games or practices are posted to the Parent s mobile phone calendar application .

As shown in this example respective calendar applications and feature different data types and or formats for presenting specific activities on a calendar view which in this case is a monthly data view. A data view in the form of a specific calendar entry for the Coach s and Parent s calendar application is also shown as data views and respectively. Data types corresponding formats and file types for data views and are as follows per Table 1 

In an exemplary use case the Coach updates a game event entry at his web based calendar application . The game time scheduled for Sep. 20th is adjusted from 6 PM to 5 PM as represented in the data view by the strikethrough time entry 6 PM. Once this change is submitted calendar information representative of the event update is submitted to the calendar management platform for distribution to the TEAM group . The calendar management platform translates the calendar information received from the data source the Coach s calendar application into a format suitable for the Parent s calendar application . This includes altering the date at the Parent s calendar application from an erroneous entry of 10 24 10 to that of 10 20 10 adapting the format of the date adjusting the order of presentment of the activity from that of the Coach s to the Parent s data view etc. In addition the entry at the Coach s calendar entitled Hawks vs. Jets is correlated by the data correlation module with that of the Parent s entitled Craig s soccer game appropriately e.g. based on shared metadata to ensure proper alignment of activities.

It is noted that the Coach may also apply various settings to the event including a priority level urgency level reminder setting or alarm attachment note recurrence etc. In this example the Coach applies a high priority setting e.g. level 1 to indicate the priority respective to him and an urgency level indicator of maximum for indicating the importance to all members of the TEAM group . The ability of the receiving group members such as the Parent to apply the urgency settings depends on the limitation and or features of their respective calendar applications . The calendar management platform by way of its various modules receives settings data as additional metadata and packages and presents it appropriately for the data view of the Parent .

The Parent s data view by way of example presents the entry as updated to their calendar as represented by the strikethrough in the date 10 24 10 and time 5 PM. Reminders alarm settings are enabled and displayed based on the device alerting capabilities. Also a note is attached and available for execution as a personalized data view to remind the Parent to bring snacks drinks for after the game. In certain embodiments depending on device characteristics and services available to a particular user e.g. Parent a third party data source may supply additional data feeds for presentment or integration to the data view . By way of example a map service may provide navigation direction based content for the location of the event. The content source is indicated in the Parent s profile data and retrieved appropriately by the data retrieval model i.e. from www.acme maps.com for integration with calendar application .

It is noted by way of example that user has another data view representative of a calendar entry posted to their calendar . The use case surrounding this entry is presented with respect to . Under this scenario the user is also affiliated with a group entitled BIZ where the role of the user within the BIZ business group is CEO Chief Executive Officer of the Legacy Corporation. Another user that is also a member of the BIZ group has the role of CFO Chief Financial Officer . The user operates a different calendar application for tracking their business related activities which in this case is the same application utilized by the second user as part of the workplace. Because the CEO and CFO are configured to the calendar management platform calendar information is shared across user groups and different calendar applications. As a result changes made to one calendar application of user are translated to the calendar application of associated peers.

For example when the user in the role of Coach changes the game time from 6 PM to 5 PM the event conflicts with a client meeting he has set with the CFO in his role as CEO. Although the online calendar is for the team the user is still presented with a data view based on calendar information provided to the calendar management platform from his business related calendar application or other data source . Having prioritized the game as high priority and posted the new time of the game the data view for the client meeting is presented to the user to enable changes to be made. In this example the user changes the client meeting from 5 PM to 3 PM as represented by the strikethrough in time 5 PM. This change is recorded by the calendar management platform resulting in an adjustment in the calendar entry for the CFO as represented by the strikethrough time entry 5 PM. Consequently the data view representative of the entry is presented to reflect the change. As before data correlation and formatting for presentment with respect to the different calendar application is executed by the calendar management platform . For example the location of the meeting Office as indicated in the CEO s data view is correlated as Legacy Co. Bldg for presentment with respect to the CFO s data view .

It is noted in this example that the CEO is able to review a data view related to the TEAM group event and that of the BIZ group event via a single calendar application . Hence even though the BIZ group event was not originally entered at the online calendar the user is provided with access to this information. Based on the permission settings the data view regarding the client meeting is restricted from view of the peers associated with the TEAM group with the exception of the user . While not shown it is noted that the CEO may be presented with the opportunity to toggle between various data views via the GUI of his device each data view corresponding to that of a calendar application he employs. Under this scenario the online calendar for the team could be toggled to a view of the calendar application pertaining to the user s business activities.

The above presented use case is but one of many approaches for enabling application of the techniques and system presented herein. System provides a means of effectively coordinating and synchronizing calendar information while also enabling presentment of data views for different calendar applications employed by one or more users or groups thereof. Changes made at one calendar application are readily accounted for at another calendar application. The following additional use cases present additional of the approaches presented in Table 2 

The processes described herein for managing calendar information received from a plurality of data sources may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to certain embodiments the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to controlling a set top box based on device events. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

