---

title: MRI image distortion reduction for MRI images of a recipient having an implantable medical device
abstract: A method for generating a new set of MRI images of a region of a recipient in which an implanted medical device having magnetic properties is located. The method includes scanning a plurality of scan slices of the recipient with an MRI machine set at a first fat shift direction to generate a first set of MRI images and rescanning the plurality of scan slices with a fat shift direction different than the first fat shift direction to obtain a second set of MRI images. At least one of the MRI images of the first set and the second set including an artifact resulting from the implanted medical device. The method further includes comparing respective artifacts of the MRI images of the first and second sets, and selecting one of the compared MRI images based on the distortion to the respective MRI image created by the respective artifact.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08570040&OS=08570040&RS=08570040
owner: Cochlear Limited
number: 08570040
owner_city: Macquarie University, NSW
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20101230
---
The present invention relates generally to Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI and more particularly to reducing distortion in Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI images of a recipient caused by the presence of a implantable medical device in the recipient.

Various implants can be implanted into a recipient to provide a medical benefit. Such implants may range from on the one hand passive devices such as screws that are utilized to adhere bones together to on the other hand active implants such as for example hearing prostheses such as cochlear implants that perform an active function such as stimulating the cochlea of a recipient to enhance hearing. Other exemplary active devices include devices for regulating hormones or regulating cardiac activity.

A range of active implantable medical devices apply electrical energy to tissue of a recipient to stimulate that tissue. Examples of such implants include pacemakers auditory brain stem implants ABI functional electrical stimulators and cochlear implants. Other implantable medical devices perform other functions such as monitoring various functions of the recipient s body such as glucose level and others can be used to administer drugs internally.

A cochlear implant allows for electrical stimulating signals to be applied to the auditory nerve of a recipient causing the brain to perceive a hearing sensation approximating the natural hearing sensation thereby enhancing hearing. These stimulating signals may be applied by an array of electrodes implanted into the recipient s cochlea.

The electrode array is connected to a stimulator that generates the electrical signals for delivery to the electrode array. The stimulator in turn is operationally connected to a sound processor which may be implanted in the recipient or which may be located externally to the recipient communication with the stimulator being via a transcutaneous inductance link which is in signal communication with a microphone. The microphone receives audio signals from the environment. The sound processor processes these signals to generate control signals for the stimulator.

It is not uncommon for a recipient of an implantable medical device to undergo subsequent medical treatment or investigations related to the implantable medical device or the recipient s condition. Certain post operative investigations utilize Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI .

MRI relies on the application of a strong magnetic field to a recipient s body to generate images of tissue and bone structure. The magnetic field aligns protons hydrogen atoms within the recipient s body. These atoms are then be excited into resonance by an applied RF field. When the RF field is removed the atoms release energy as they exit their excited state. This release of energy is detected by a receiver and utilized to create an MRI image.

The presence of materials within the applied magnetic field which have a magnetic property may distort the magnetic field causing artifacts in the resulting MRI image. Such artifacts may obscure features resulting in misdiagnosis of the patients conditions such as for example tumors that are not able to be resolved in the image due to the distortion.

For example a cochlear implant may contain a transformer which includes a small quantity of ferromagnetic material. Other materials such as the housing and or the electronics of the stimulator receiver of the cochlear implant have an adverse effect.

The human body has a magnetic permeability similar to that of water. Implantable medical devices such as cochlear implants typically have components with permeability different to that of water e.g. transformer cores housings etc. . In the past designers of implantable medical devices have attempted to address this problem by designing the medical device implant with a minimum of ferromagnetic materials. Alternatively designers utilized additional components made from materials having low magnetic permeability to counterbalance components made from materials having high magnetic permeability. Some designs rely upon devices having ferromagnetic components that are removable through a minor medical procedure prior to undergoing an MRI scan.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is a method for generating a new set of MRI images of a region of a recipient in which an implanted medical device having magnetic properties is located. The method comprises scanning a plurality of scan slices of the recipient with an MRI machine set at a first fat shift direction resulting in a first set of MRI images including a plurality of MRI images respectively corresponding to the plurality of scan slices wherein the first set of MRI images comprises at least one MRI image having an artifact resulting from the implanted medical device rescanning at least some of the plurality of scan slices with the MRI machine set at a second fat shift direction different than the first fat shift direction resulting in a second set of MRI images including at least one MRI image having an artifact resulting from the implanted medical device comparing a respective artifact of an MRI image corresponding to a first scan slice of the recipient of one of the first set of MRI images and the second set of MRI images to a respective artifact of an MRI image corresponding to the first scan slice of the recipient of the other of the first set of MRI images and the second set of MRI images and selecting one of the compared MRI images based on the distortion to the respective MRI image created by the respective artifact.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is a method of obtaining a new MRI image of a recipient of an implantable medical device the method comprises generating a first MRI image by scanning a first scan slice of the recipient with an MRI machine set at a first fat shift direction generating a second MRI image by repeating the scan of the first scan slice with the MRI machine set at a second fat shift direction approximately opposite to the first fat shift direction and generating a new MRI image based on the first MRI image and the second MRI image.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is a method for generating a set of MRI images of a region of a recipient in which an implanted medical device having magnetic properties is located the method comprises obtaining a first set of MRI images of the region of the recipient the first set of MRI images comprising a plurality of MRI images obtained by MRI scanning a first plurality of scan slices of the recipient using a first fat shift direction wherein at least one MRI image of the first set of MRI images includes an artifact resulting from the implanted medical device obtaining a second set of MRI images the second set of MRI images comprising a plurality of MRI images obtained by MRI scanning a second plurality of scan slices of the recipient using a second fat shift direction approximately opposite to the first fat shift direction wherein at least a first scan slice of the second plurality of respective scan slices is the same scan slice as a scan slice of the first plurality of respective scan slices and generating a third set of MRI images by selecting a sub set of MRI images from the first set of MRI images and a sub set of MRI images from the second set of MRI images and combining the sub sets wherein the third set includes an MRI image corresponding to the first scan slice and wherein the size of the artifact of an MRI image of the third set corresponding to the first scan slice is reduced as compared to the size of the artifact of the MRI image of the first set of the first scan slice or the size of the artifact of the MRI image of the second set of the first scan slice.

Some exemplary embodiments of the present invention include methods apparatuses systems and algorithms for reducing the above discussed artifact in a set of MRI images. Exemplary methods include generating a first set of images using an MRI machine using a first fat shift direction. The scans are repeated for the same MRI slices of the recipient using a second fat shift direction approximately opposite to the first fat shift direction. The first and second sets of MRI images will have the artifact displaced with respect to each other. A set of MRI images is then generated by replacing some of the images of the various sets with new images of the same respective MRI slice. In an exemplary embodiment MRI images from the first and second sets are selected and then combined into a new set of MRI images such that the artifact appearing on the images is reduced.

Some exemplary embodiments of the present invention also include obtaining a new MRI image from a selection of one of two or more MRI images generated using approximately opposite fat shift directions the new MRI image containing a reduced artifact.

The following abbreviations are used herein in the description of some embodiments of the present invention 

During operation of the MRI machine magnetic field generator and RF field generator is controlled by control station . In some cases a human operator controls the operation of the MRI machine from control station . It will also be appreciated that some or all of the MRI machine s operations are automated and function in accordance with machine readable instructions.

In operation MRI machine generates a large magnetic field B which in the schematic depicted in is directed horizontally from left to right. This magnetic field B is generated by magnetic field generator as described above.

In most volumes of tissue the magnetic vector sum of all hydrogen nuclei also referred to as the Net Magnetic Vector NMV should be zero as the spin vectors of all protons are randomly oriented. However the application of magnetic field B causes magnetic moments of the protons in the hydrogen atoms of the recipient s tissue to align parallel including anti parallel to the magnetic field B. As a result of a quantum phenomenon known as Zeeman interaction there should be a slight excess of the protons magnetic moments oriented parallel to the magnetic field B. This results in a macroscopic net magnetization M aligned parallel to B. Furthermore due to interactions between B and the positively charged nucleus of the hydrogen atoms that are spinning the protons within the magnetic field should precess about the direction of the magnetic field B.

A high amplitude radio frequency RF pulse is applied to the recipient in a direction 90 from B in order to generate a magnetic resonance MR signal at the same and or about the same frequency at which the hydrogen nuclei precess. In some embodiments this causes the hydrogen nuclei to resonate with the applied RF signal. However nuclei other than hydrogen may not resonate as their gyromagnetic ratios are different.

In some embodiments of the present invention two phenomena occur at resonance energy absorption and phase coherence. With respect to energy absorption the hydrogen nuclei absorb energy from the RF pulse which alters the distribution of magnetic moments aligned parallel and anti parallel to the magnetic field. This has the effect of rotating the NMV into a transverse plane. With respect to phase coherence the RF pulse causes the magnetic moments of all or substantially all hydrogen nuclei to precess in phase about in phase with each other which means the NMV precesses now in the transverse plane .

As the NMV rotates in the transverse plane it induces a voltage signal in the receiver coil receiver positioned close to the recipient . This phenomenon is referred to as free induction decay and the detected voltage is the fundamental MR signal.

Many fine variations of parameters of the magnetic field B and RF signal are used to control the types of received signals to produce desired effects in the generated image including controlling the depth of the image the type of tissue targeted and the contrast between different tissue types.

The scans generated by the MRI machine result in a set of images representing slices at different depths of a region of the recipient . In some embodiments of the present invention the thickness of the slices are varied from for example about 1 mm or less to about 5 mm or more. In this way the set of images when combined provide a detailed volume image of the portion of the recipient that is scanned with the MRI machine .

Accordingly an embodiment of the present invention utilizes an MRI machine wherein some and or all of the above mentioned phenomena are exhibited during scanning utilizing the MRI machine.

Tables 2 to 6 below present exemplary specific values for various parameters usable to obtain the different images of respectively. The images of were obtained using MRI machine parameters corresponding to Series 1 presented in the tables.

As previously indicated the presence of an implanted medical device including components having magnetic properties e.g. ferromagnetic materials whether the component is for example a screw a cochlear implant etc. often affects the results of a given scan. Specifically such an implanted medical device may cause the signal received by receiver coil during a scan to have a dramatic loss of signal vis vis a corresponding received signal if the implanted medical device were absent. The resulting artifact in the images prevents that area from being properly imaged and can obscure diseased tissue such as for example a tumor thus resulting in that tumor or other ailment not being detected.

A number of characteristics of MRI imaging result in effects that can distort or otherwise change the results of an MRI image obtained from a scan. One of these characteristics is a chemical shift in general and a fat shift in particular. In this regard due to the different molecular environments of protons the resonant frequency of protons in water and fat differ by approximately 3.5 ppm 220 Hz at 1.5 T . The detected signal from each voxel of a scan is mapped to a position based on its frequency under the assumption that all protons contained within it resonate at the same frequency. The lower resonant frequency of fat protons causes such protons to be mapped to a lower frequency pixel during frequency encoding gradient direction. This misregistration may not be noticed in tissues with uniform fat water content. However the misregistration may produce artifacts at the borders of tissue with significantly different fat water content. Traditionally various techniques and signal processing are applied in an attempt to minimize the effect of fat shift hereinafter collectively referred to as fat shift signal processing. 

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention rather than use the fat shift signal processing to minimize the effect of fat shift as is traditionally done the fat shift signal processing is used to provide a set of MRI images that overall show a reduced artifact distortion caused by an implanted medical device. This fat shift signal processing also has an effect on the registration of image artifacts resulting from an implantable medical device. This can be used to obtain images with reduced artifact. For example two sets of images are generated or otherwise obtained wherein one set of MRI images is obtained via scans taken with the fat shift set in one direction and the other set of MRI images is obtained via scans taken with the fat shift in an approximately opposite direction. Accordingly some embodiments of the present invention utilize MRI machines where a technician operator may select the direction in which fat shift occurs sometimes constrained by the direction of the frequency encoding gradient allowing the appearance and orientation of the artifact to be controlled and or reduced including eliminated in the resulting set of MRI images as will be described in greater detail below.

We note that in the following description fat shift should be understood to mean the fat shift setting on the MRI machine which controls the fat shift processing performed by the machine.

With respect to it may be seen that shows an MRI image taken with a scan at a region of the recipient s head identified as slice and that shows an MRI image taken with a scan at a region of the recipient s head identified as slice slice corresponding to a slice of the recipient s head a distance from slice .

Comparing to C showing an MRI image obtained at slice except obtained with a scan using MRI machine parameters corresponding to Series 2 of the above charts as detailed above it may be seen that the artifact of and the artifact of is different. Specifically the artifact appears far less pronounced in than in . The only substantive difference between these two images is that the fat shift setting for the scan used to obtain the MRI image of has been reversed from P posterior to A anterior directions see Table 4 above relative to the scan used to obtain the MRI image of . All other substantive parameter settings of the MRI machine are the same when scanning to obtain these images.

With respect to which shows an MRI image taken at slice instead of slice of the recipient the artifact appears more pronounced with respect to the MRI image of and the distortion effects are more analogous to those of than to those of . This is due to the effect of reversing the fat shift direction of the scans used to produce the MRI images of which effectively shifts the location of the artifact upwards from slice to slice of the recipient. It is noted that in other embodiments a useful effect may be obtained by shifting the location of the artifact downward. 

Accordingly amongst the collection of MRI images of the two sets of MRI images presented in and A G there are images of slice with reduced little to no artifact and images of slice with some or even an increased artifact. Embodiments of the present invention include selecting MRI images from each MRI image set that have a reduced eliminated artifact to provide a full set of MRI images with reduced artifact distortion when compared to a set of MRI images of a given slice of the recipient using the same fat shift setting.

In view of the above in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a set of MRI images with a reduced artifact may be obtained by generating or otherwise obtaining a first set of MRI images of the recipient using a first fat shift direction generating or otherwise obtaining a second set of MRI images of the recipient using a second fat shift direction approximately opposite to the first fat shift direction and producing a new set of MRI images by selecting a sub set of MRI images from the first set and a sub set of images from the second set such that the artifact present in the MRI images in the produced set of MRI images is reduced for one or more MRI images of the set of MRI images when compared to the artifact in either of the first and second sets.

An exemplary method of producing a new set of MRI images will now be discussed with reference to B and C. illustrate representative images of three different MRI image set I MRI image set and MRI image set III respectively. schematically illustrates the first set MRI image set I of MRI images comprising in this case 22 MRI images labeled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and .. Each of these MRI images corresponds to an MRI image resulting from a scan of a given slice of a region of the recipient s head 22 slices in total each a known and acceptable distance from the other.

MRI images . . . . and . show an artifact indicated representatively as an oval. The artifact appears first in MRI image . and grows in . and . and then begins to decrease images . and . and by image . it has disappeared. All other MRI images of the set depicted in show no sign of the artifact .

In this second set MRI image set II of images MRI images . to . corresponding to the same slices of the recipient from which MRI images . to . of were obtained show no sign of the artifact in contrast to the corresponding MRI images of . However with the fat shift direction reversed the artifact has effectively been shifted upwards by 5 slices to appear in MRI images . . . . and . and disappearing again from MRI images . and onwards.

In the exemplary method now being described a subset of MRI images from the first set MRI image set I of MRI images is selected which have little or no or at least reduced artifact when compared with the corresponding MRI image of second set MRI image set II and a sub set of second set MRI image set II of MRI images is selected which have little or no or reduced artifact when compared with the corresponding MRI image of first set MRI image set I . Accordingly the result of the exemplary method is such that the sub set of first set MRI image set I comprises images . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and . and the sub set of second set MRI image set II comprises images . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and ..

The images from these sub sets are combined to form a new set MRI image set III of MRI images represented by MRI images shown in with little or no or reduced artifact in those images vis vis the corresponding images of the sets depicted in and . shows the set MRI image set III of MRI images comprising images . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and .. It will be appreciated that other combinations of sub sets may also be selected to form a new set of MRI images such as by way of example only . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and . or . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and ..

According to the exemplary method now being described for each of the 22 slices of the recipient the corresponding MRI image with the larger artifact has been omitted and the corresponding MRI image with the smaller artifact has been selected.

In some embodiments the first set MRI image set I of MRI images and the second set MRI image set II of MRI images may not have exactly the same number of MRI images as each other. For example the first set MRI image set I may have 18 images and the second set MRI image set II may have 20 images. Any size set will suffice providing that the present invention may be practiced.

Some embodiments of the present invention include methods in which the MRI image with an artifact is not excluded. In such a method at least one MRI image with an artifact smaller than that of a corresponding MRI image or near corresponding MRI image in the case where the image numbers are not equal in both sets is selected in place of the corresponding MRI image the produced improved set of MRI images having an overall reduced artifact when compared with either of the first set MRI image set I or the second set MRI image set II of MRI images.

In some embodiments of the present invention the artifact may move upwards or downwards in the side profiles by about 25 mm. This is roughly equivalent to the average radius of artifacts produced by typical cochlear implants.

The detailed listing of the protocol settings that may be used for this fast spin echo sequence follows as would readily be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art 

Next MRI scans are taken of the same 22 slices of the recipient used to generate the MRI images of again using a T2W TSE sequence. This produces the MRI images shown in thereby producing a second set of MRI images. As may be seen from the MRI images of the MRI images corresponding to slices and slice being at the top left slice being at the bottom right show significant signs of an artifact resulting from the implanted cochlear implant.

The detailed listing of the protocol settings is identical to those used above but with the fat shift direction set to A instead of P as follows as would readily be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art 

An embodiment of the present invention includes a new T2W TSE sequence in which parameters are adjusted from those of the standard sequence. An embodiment of the present invention includes a method utilizing a T2 weighted fast spin echo sequence a widened receive bandwidth and right left R L phase encoding gradient direction. The following acquisition sequence may be used in some embodiments of the present invention as a baseline for acquiring images with a relatively minimal artifact T2 weighted Fast Spin echo ETL Echo Spacing Shot ms 10 190 Minimum voxel volume for 5 mm slice thickness and or Phase encoding gradient direction of R L. An exemplary method includes scanning using a posterior P direction fat shift setting and then repeating the scanning using an anterior A direction setting and visa versa

In step a second set of MRI images of the same recipient is obtained. This set is generated using a second fat shift direction different from the first fat shift direction used in step . The second fat shift direction may be approximately opposite the first fat shift direction. Step may encompass actually generating the scan using a specific scanning sequence and may also encompass obtaining data relating to a scan sequence of scans previously performed by another party. This other party could be the same party that executed step or could be a different party e.g. the scan s may have been performed in a different MRI center using for example the same scan parameters but with an approximately opposite fat shift setting .

At least some of the MRI images produced or obtained in step include an artifact resulting from the presence of the implant in the recipient but the position of the artifact will be shifted in respective images due to the approximately opposite fat shift setting as previously described.

Proceeding to step a new set of MRI images is produced based on MRI images from the first set of MRI images obtained in step and the second set of MRI images obtained in step . As detailed above and as further detailed below with respect to step may include selecting a sub set of MRI images from the first set and a sub set of MRI images from the second set such that the size of the artifact is reduced for at least some of the MRI images when compared to the MRI images including the artifact of first set and or of the second set. In other embodiments step may include merging MRI image s of the first set and the second set of a given scan slice to generate a new MRI image s this new MRI image s replacing MRI image s of the first set and the second set having the artifact thereby reducing the size of the artifact. In other embodiments of the present invention some or all of the MRI images of the first set and or the second set are subjected to image processing to reduce the size of the artifact in one or more of the MRI images of the first set and or the second set. In yet other embodiments at step the artifact s of the MRI images are identified and replaced with computer generated images.

In step a second set of MRI images of the same recipient is obtained. This set is generated using a second fat shift direction approximately opposite to the first fat shift direction used in step e.g. P . Step may encompass actually generating the scan using a specific scanning sequence and may also encompass obtaining data relating to a scan sequence of scans previously performed by another party. This other party could be the same party that executed step or could be a different party e.g. the scan s may have been performed in a different MRI center using for example the same scan parameters but with an approximately opposite fat shift setting .

At least some of the MRI images produced or obtained in step include an artifact resulting from the presence of the implant in the recipient but the position of the artifact will be shifted in respective images due to the approximately opposite fat shift setting as previously described.

Proceeding to step a new set of MRI images is produced by selecting a sub set of MRI images from the first set and a sub set of MRI images from the second set such that the size of the artifact is reduced for at least some of the MRI images when compared to the MRI images including the artifact of first set and or of the second set. Indeed in some instances the method represented by will result in the artifact in the improved set having been completely eliminated. In other instances some trace of the artifact may remain in the MRI images of the improved set but the overall distortion is reduced.

Proceeding to step the operator controls the MRI machine to repeat the scan of the one or more slices scanned at step except using a fat shift direction approximately opposite to that used in step e.g. P thereby generating a second set of MRI images. This second set comprises a plurality of images including at least one MRI image comprising the artifact but shifted due to the reversed fat shift setting.

At step a new set of MRI images is generated by selecting a sub set of MRI images from the first set and a sub set of MRI images from the second set of MRI images. The selection of step is made such that the size distortion effects of the artifacts of at least some of the MRI images of the resulting improved set are reduced which as used herein includes eliminated when compared with the artifacts of the first and or second sets.

In some exemplary embodiments the first set of MRI images and the second set of MRI images may have an equal number of corresponding images and the step of selecting the sub set of images from the first set and selecting the sub set of images from the second set involves selecting at least one of the corresponding images with the smaller less distorting artifact. By way of example if MRI image from the first set has a smaller including no artifact than image from the second set then image from the first set is selected to form image of the improved set.

In some exemplary methods as noted above the first and second MRI sets need not have the same number of MRI images. For example if the first set has 20 MRI images and the second set has 22 MRI images then a comparison may be made between near corresponding MRI images that may represent roughly the same region of the area scanned. For example MRI image of the first set MRI image set I may roughly correspond to MRI image of the second set and may be selected to form a set MRI image set III of the same number of MRI images as one or the other of the first or second sets or of yet another number for example twenty one MRI images.

In some exemplary embodiments of the present invention the bandwidth of the receiver of the MRI machine is varied to provide improved results. In one example the bandwidth is set to be greater than about 108 Hz pix. In some exemplary embodiments the bandwidth of the receiver is set to about 233 Hz pix. In another exemplary embodiment the bandwidth is set to about 476 Hz pix.

In another exemplary embodiment of the present invention a single improved MRI image may be obtained rather than a set of MRI images. By improved it is meant that of two MRI images obtained at least one of those two MRI images having an artifact the improved MRI image is the one with the smaller less distorting artifact. In such an embodiment the smaller artifact may be no artifact at all.

It is noted that in some embodiments of the present invention some or all of the above method steps of are executed automatically. In an exemplary embodiment an MRI machine or another device such as an image processor that receives the MRI images automatically evaluates the MRI images to determine which images have a reduced artifact and generates a new set of MRI images based on the original set of MRI images according to the methods disclosed herein and variations thereof. In an exemplary embodiment the MRI machine or the image processor automatically ascertains which images for respective scan slices from various MRI image sets have a reduced distortion. By way of example this may be done by automatically measuring the diameter of the artifacts of the MRI images and automatically selecting the MRI images where the artifact has the smaller diameter and or disregarding the MRI images where the artifact has the larger diameter. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the MRI machine and or the image processor are configured to automatically execute some or all of the methods disclosed herein and variations thereof.

In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the implantable device of the cochlear implant has stored in its memory unit instructions usable to direct an MRI machine and or an operator of an MRI machine to carry out one or more of the methods described herein and variations thereof. These instructions are accessed and presented in a number of ways including as a step by step instruction sheet or as a list of protocol and parameter settings. The instructions can be presented on a display screen that can interface with the cochlear implant or printed on a printer etc. Alternatively the instructions can be presented as a sequence of audio instructions able to be heard by the operator through a speaker. Alternatively these instructions may be read by an MRI machine.

The information on memory is accessed via an external component see of a cochlear implant or via another machine configured to interface with and interrogate implant etc. In some embodiments of the present invention the information just described is stored on memory of external component instead of or in addition to memory .

In some embodiments the specific parameter settings are fine tuned for the particular type of implanted medical device. For example an implantable medical device might utilize an implantable battery which is supplied as a separate module. In such a scenario there may be two or more modules e.g. a main module and a battery module positioned at different locations against the recipient s skill on the side of the recipient s head. By using transverse plane scans to obtain transverse plane MRI images as detailed above it may not be possible to obtain MRI images which are free of artifact from either the main module or the battery module. This may be because the main and battery modules are located in separate transverse plane slices. According to an embodiment a superior result may be obtained using a sequence of sagittal planes at least if the main module and battery module are in similar sagittal planes.

Expanding on an embodiment briefly described above in some embodiments of the present invention the instructions on memory and or memory referring to respectively is in a machine readable form to allow direct interface with a machine such as an MRI machine to allow the machine to automatically carry out the scans in accordance with the methods described herein and variations thereof with the specific parameter values pre programmed. As noted above these specific parameter values are specific or fine tuned for a specific type of implantable medical device.

In embodiments where instructions are stored in the memory of external component and or stored in the memory of implantable device and accessed via external component these instructions are accessed by any suitable device system and or method such as for example any one or more of the output interfaces provided on a standard external component of a cochlear implant such as an output jack .

Remote control unit also has a memory on which may be stored thereon instructions to perform one or more of the methods described herein and variations thereof.

In some embodiments the instructions are also stored on any other machine readable medium. For example the instructions are stored on a hard disc Digital Video Disc DVD Compact Disc CD memory stick flash memory RAM memory ROM memory EPROM memory or EEPROM memory. These stored instructions are then transferred at a later date from the machine readable medium to a device such as an implantable medical device such as a cochlear implant described herein and variations thereof a remote control unit for use with a cochlear implant or other hearing prosthesis a printer for printing out the instructions stored on the machine readable medium to be followed by an MRI machine operator an MRI machine to enable it to carry our the methods automatically or a display unit to display instructions to carry out the methods.

A reversing the fat shift setting in the method disclosed herein has the effect of shifting the position of the artifact by a limited amount typically 25 mm for a cochlear implant. Some embodiments include methods used in combination with other techniques to reduce MRI image artifact dimensions. Such may be done in the case where additional techniques reduce the artifact to less than the amount the artifact is shifted by the fat shift reversal. One example of a technique which could be used in combination with that described herein and variations thereof is the removal of a component such as a coil locating magnet from a cochlear implant. In this regard it is noted that the MRI images shown in the figures herein with a cochlear implant were for a cochlear implant with a coil locating magnet removed.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein primarily in connection with one type of hearing prosthesis namely a cochlear prostheses commonly referred to as cochlear prosthetic devices cochlear implants cochlear devices and the like simply cochlea implants herein. Cochlear implants generally refer to hearing prostheses that deliver electrical stimulation to the cochlea of a recipient. As used herein cochlear implants also include hearing prostheses that deliver electrical stimulation in combination with other types of stimulation such as acoustic or mechanical stimulation. As discussed further below it would be appreciated that some embodiments of the present invention may be variously implemented with respect to a recipient having any cochlear implant or other hearing prosthesis now known or later developed including auditory brain stimulators or implantable hearing prostheses that acoustically and or mechanically stimulate components of the recipient s middle or inner ear.

In a fully functional ear outer ear comprises an auricle and an ear canal . An acoustic pressure or sound wave is collected by auricle and channeled into and through ear canal . Disposed across the distal end of ear cannel is a tympanic membrane which vibrates in response to sound wave . This vibration is coupled to oval window or fenestra ovalis through three bones of middle ear collectively referred to as the ossicles and comprising the malleus the incus and the stapes . Bones and of middle ear serve to filter and amplify sound wave causing oval window to articulate or vibrate in response to vibration of tympanic membrane . This vibration sets up waves of fluid motion of the perilymph within cochlea . Such fluid motion in turn activates tiny hair cells not shown inside of cochlea . Activation of the hair cells causes appropriate nerve impulses to be generated and transferred through the spiral ganglion cells not shown and auditory nerve to the brain also not shown where they are perceived as sound.

Cochlear implant comprises an external component which in some embodiments corresponds to external component detailed above which is directly or indirectly attached to the body of the recipient and an internal component which in some embodiments corresponds to implantable device detailed above which is temporarily or permanently implanted in the recipient. External component typically comprises one or more sound input elements such as microphone for detecting sound a sound processor a power source not shown and an external transmitter unit . External transmitter unit comprises an external coil and preferably a magnet not shown secured directly or indirectly to external coil . Sound processor processes the output of microphone that is positioned in the depicted embodiment by auricle of the recipient. Sound processor generates encoded signals sometimes referred to herein as encoded data signals which are provided to external transmitter unit via a cable not shown . Sound processor may further comprise a data input interface not shown that may be used to connect sound processor to a data source such as a personal computer or musical instrument e.g. a MIDI instrument .

Internal component comprises an internal receiver unit a stimulator unit and a stimulating lead assembly . Internal receiver unit comprises an internal coil and preferably a magnet also not shown fixed relative to the internal coil. Internal receiver unit and stimulator unit are hermetically sealed within a biocompatible housing sometimes collectively referred to as a stimulator receiver unit. The internal coil receives power and stimulation data from external coil . Stimulating lead assembly has a proximal end connected to stimulator unit and a distal end implanted in cochlea . Stimulating lead assembly extends from stimulator unit to cochlea through mastoid bone . In some embodiments stimulating lead assembly may be implanted at least in basal region and sometimes further. For example stimulating lead assembly may extend towards apical end of cochlea referred to as cochlea apex . In certain circumstances stimulating lead assembly may be inserted into cochlea via a cochleostomy . In other circumstances a cochleostomy may be formed through round window oval window the promontory or through an apical turn of cochlea .

Stimulating lead assembly comprises a longitudinally aligned and distally extending array of electrode contacts sometimes referred to as array of electrode contacts herein. Although array of electrode contacts may be disposed on stimulating lead assembly in most practical applications array of electrode contacts is integrated into stimulating lead assembly . As such array of electrode contacts is referred to herein as being disposed in stimulating lead assembly . Stimulator unit generates stimulation signals which are applied by electrode contacts to cochlea thereby stimulating auditory nerve . Because in cochlear implant stimulating lead assembly provides stimulation stimulating lead assembly is sometimes referred to as a stimulating lead assembly.

In cochlear implant external coil transmits electrical signals that is power and stimulation data to internal coil via a radio frequency RF link. Internal coil is typically a wire antenna coil comprised of multiple turns of electrically insulated single strand or multi strand platinum or gold wire. The electrical insulation of internal coil is provided by a flexible silicone molding not shown . In use implantable receiver unit may be positioned in a recess of the temporal bone adjacent auricle of the recipient.

While the various aspects herein have been described with specific reference to a cochlear implant it will be understood that the principles of the various aspects can be applied to reducing and or eliminating the effects of artifact for other types of implantable medical devices such as for example 

ABIs Auditory Brainstem Implants which include electrodes placed in the auditory brainstem to enhance hearing such as Cochlear Corporation s Nucleus 24 R Multichannel Auditory Brainstem Implant Multichannel ABI .

The auditory brainstem implant consists of a small electrode that is applied to the brainstem where it stimulates acoustic nerves by means of electrical signals. The stimulating electrical signals are provided by a sound processor processing input sounds from a microphone located externally to the recipient. This allows the recipient to hear a certain degree of sound. FES Functional Electrical Stimulation devices which are devices that utilize a technique that uses electrical currents to activate muscles and or nerves restoring function in people with paralysis related disabilities.

SCS Spinal Cord Stimulator devices which for example deliver pulses of electrical energy via an electrode in the spinal area and can be used for pain management. An example of a commercially available system is the RESTOREPRIME system by Medtronic Inc USA.

The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be taken as an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common general knowledge.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

