---

title: Flat panel display
abstract: A monitor having a flat panel display, a printer and a sheet feeder disposed within a housing is disclosed. The flat panel display displays a video signal provided from an external computer through a video input socket of the monitor. The printer is disposed behind the flat panel display as viewed by the user. The printer includes a pagewidth printhead which prints onto print media print data provided from the external computer through a serial data connection of the monitor. The sheet feeder feeds a sheet of print media from a stack of print media past the pagewidth printhead. The stack of print media is located behind the flat panel display such that, immediately prior to commencement of printing, at least an edge of the print media is visible above an upper edge of the flat panel display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07929179&OS=07929179&RS=07929179
owner: Silverbrook Research Pty Ltd
number: 07929179
owner_city: Balmain, New South Wales
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20100322
---
The present application is a Continuation Application of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 922 848 filed on Aug. 23 2004 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 692 815 which is a Continuation In Part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 803 074 filed on Mar. 18 2004.

The invention has been developed primarily as an integrated peripheral unit that is connectable to a personal computer such as Macintosh or IBM compatible PC. However it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to these applications.

Various methods systems and apparatus relating to the present invention are disclosed in the following co pending granted applications filed by the applicant or assignee of the present invention 

Various methods systems and apparatus relating to the present invention are disclosed in the following co pending applications filed by the applicant or assignee of the present invention. The disclosures of all of these co pending applications are incorporated herein by cross reference.

Some applications are temporarily identified by docket numbers. These will be replaced by the corresponding application numbers when available.

Flat panel displays are known. A popular technology presently in use is the Thin Film Transistor TFT Liquid Crystal Display LCD which comprises an array of liquid crystal pixel elements driven by respective thin film transistors. In each element liquid crystal is sandwiched between glass plates. A backlight is positioned behind the LCD layer relative to a position from which the display will be viewed. A polarizing screen is placed between the backlight and the LCD layer and another polarizing screen is positioned on the other side of the LCD layer. The polarizing screens are orientated to be orthogonally polarizing with respect to each other.

Using the corresponding TFT to alter a voltage applied to the liquid crystal element causes a change in its crystalline structure that correspondingly alters the polarization of light passing through the element from the backlight. This change in polarization causes a corresponding change in the amount of light transmitted through the polarizing screens and LCD element.

Multiple colors are dealt with by providing each pixel with multiple LCD pixel elements usually red green and blue that can individually be controlled for each pixel thereby allowing various color combinations.

The design and operation of TFT LCD screens is well known to those skilled in the art and so is not described in more detail in this document.

Typically flat panel displays including TFT LCD displays are more expensive than Cathode Ray Tube CRT display of comparable performance. However the relative lightness and compactness of flat panel displays particularly in terms of front to back depth make them particularly suitable for situations where a small footprint is desirable. They are ubiquitous in laptop computers and have come down in price sufficiently for them to be attractive to many desktop computer users. The relatively shallow front to back depth means that the display can be pushed back further from the user than would be possible with a CRT in many situations thereby allowing better viewing comfort. Flat panel displays also enable a user to utilize considerably smaller areas than would be possible with an equivalent CRT display which can be important in situations where a wall partition or divider is located close to a work area in which the display is to be situated.

Often computer users wish to print a hard copy of documents images web pages and the like. Usually a printer is provided as a peripheral device that can be connected to the computer using a suitable cable. Alternatively the computer can be connected via a Local Area Network LAN or other communications network. Printers can be bulky and tend take up additional space in a user s work area. Where space is at a premium such printers can be intrusive or at least inconvenient. In many cases where a flat panel display is selected space is already at a premium so printers can exacerbate the problem.

a flat panel display disposed within the housing for displaying a video signal provided from an external computer through a video input socket of the monitor 

a printer disposed within the housing and behind said flat panel display as viewed by the user the printer including a pagewidth printhead for printing onto print media print data provided from the external computer through a serial data connection of the monitor and

a sheet feeder disposed within the housing for feeding a sheet of print media from a stack of print media past the pagewidth printhead the stack of print media being located behind said flat panel display such that immediately prior to commencement of printing at least an edge of the print media is visible above an upper edge of the flat panel display.

The invention will be more fully understood from the following description of an embodiment of a printing and display device that incorporates an exemplified form of the invention. The description is provided with reference to the accompanying drawings.

As shown in in the preferred embodiment the printing aspect of the invention is embodied in an A4 Letter printer that prints documents supplied by a computer system . The computer system is programmed to perform various steps involved in printing a document including receiving the document step buffering it step and rasterizing it step and then compressing it step for transmission to the printer .

The compressed multi layer page image is buffered step upon receipt in the printer then expanded step . The expanded contone layer is dithered step and then the black layer from the expansion step is composited over the dithered contone layer step . Coded data can also be rendered step to form an additional layer to be printed in the preferred form using an infrared ink that is substantially invisible to the human eye. The black dithered contone and infrared layers are combined step to form a page that is supplied to a printhead for printing step . In the preferred embodiment the printhead is a bi lithic printhead configured to print in 6 colors in a pagewidth format although the design can be adapted to print using any desired number of colors and can be monolithic or require multiple substrates depending upon implementation.

The preferred embodiment divides printer data into a high resolution bi level mask layer for text and line art and a medium resolution contone color image layer for images or background colors. Optionally colored text can be supported by the addition of a medium to high resolution contone texture layer for texturing text and line art with color data taken from an image or from flat colors. The preferred printing architecture elements of which are described in more detail below generalises these contone layers by representing them in abstract image and texture layers which can refer to either image data or flat color data. This division of data into layers based on content follows the base mode Mixed Raster Content MRC model specified in ITU T.44. Like the MRC base mode the preferred printing architecture makes compromises in some cases when data to be printed overlap. In particular in the preferred form all overlaps are reduced to a 3 layer representation in a process collision resolution embodying the compromises explicitly.

As shown in the central data structure for the preferred printing architecture is a generalised representation of the three layers called a page element. A page element can be used to represent units ranging from single rendered elements emerging from a rendering engine up to an entire band of a print job. shows a simplified UML diagram of a page element . Conceptually the bi level symbol region selects between the two color sources as described in more detail below.

A more detailed description of the printing architecture will now be described with reference to . It will be appreciated that the components of the architecture shown in will typically be device dependent in that they process the data into a form required by a software or hardware component further downstream.

In a renderer exists outside of the more general printer system pipeline. Its purpose is to render files to be printed and deliver rendered elements to the data receiver of the pipeline using an API Application Programming Interface exposed by the data receiver for that purpose. The rendered elements are delivered in order according to the painter s algorithm which is well known to those skilled in the art of image processing. The data passed in through the API is converted by the data receiver into lists of dictionaries and page elements for processing in later stages.

A collision resolver accepts the simple page elements created by the data receiver and creates a fully opaque resolved page element for each intersection of a new element with the background and any elements already present. Fundamentally the collision resolver guarantees that the entire page is tiled with opaque elements.

A stripper divides a band of data into horizontally overlapping pieces. This need only be performed in the case where relatively wide or fast printers use multiple parallel devices in order to achieve the required output dot rate. In such cases each horizontally overlapping piece is fed into a corresponding device downstream. Where such data division is not required the stripper can be omitted.

Different printing configurations will require different configurations of layers for delivery to the downstream hardware. A layer reorganiser converts 3 layer page elements to the appropriate 2 or 3 layer form for the specific configuration. Again there may be cases in which this function is not required in which case the layer organiser can be omitted.

A contone combiner combines and clips the image and texture layers of all page elements in a strip into single image and texture layers as required by downstream hardware.

A color converter transforms the contone planes of all page elements from the input color space to a device specific color space which is usually CMYK .

A mask combiner performs the same operation on the mask layer as the contone combiner performs on the contone layers. All elements are clipped to a strip boundary and drawn into a single mask buffer.

A densitometer measures the density of the current page as a percentage of total possible density. This operation is necessary only in low end printers with power supplies that may not be able to handle a fully dense page at full speed.

A contone compressor compresses the contone layers of all page elements in order to reduce downstream memory and or transmission bandwidth requirements.

A mask formatter converts the mask layer of page elements which may be represented as regions of placed symbol references into the form expected by a downstream mask decompressor.

A size limiter ensures that all size limitations for bands and for entire pages are adhered to by either dividing bands into smaller bands or by recompressing the data repeating until the constraint is satisfied.

If data is to be transmitted to the printer between pipeline stages a serialised form of the data structures is generated in serialiser transmitted then deserialised in deserialiser .

Within the printer a distributor converts data from a proprietary representation into a hardware specific representation and ensures that the data for each strip is sent to the correct hardware device whilst observing any constraints or requirements on data transmission to these devices. The distributor distributes the converted data to an appropriate one of a plurality of pipelines . The pipelines are identical to each other and in essence provide decompression scaling and dot compositing functions to generate a set of printable dot outputs.

Each pipeline includes a buffer for receiving the data. A contone decompressor decompresses the color contone planes and a mask decompressor decompresses the monotone text layer. Contone and mask scalers and scale the decompressed contone and mask planes respectively to take into account the size of the medium onto which the page is to be printed.

The scaled contone planes are then dithered by ditherer . In the preferred form a stochastic dispersed dot dither is used. Unlike a clustered dot or amplitude modulated dither a dispersed dot or frequency modulated dither reproduces high spatial frequencies i.e. image detail almost to the limits of the dot resolution while simultaneously reproducing lower spatial frequencies to their full color depth when spatially integrated by the eye. A stochastic dither matrix is carefully designed to be relatively free of objectionable low frequency patterns when tiled across the image. As such its size typically exceeds the minimum size required to support a particular number of intensity levels e.g. 16 16 8 bits for 257 intensity levels .

The dithered planes are then composited in a dot compositor on a dot by dot basis to provide dot data suitable for printing. This data is forwarded to data distribution and drive circuitry which in turn distributes the data to the correct nozzle actuators which in turn cause ink to be ejected from the correct nozzles at the correct time. This process is described in more detail below.

The architecture includes a mainly software based computer system portion prior to the serialiser and a mainly hardware based printer portion that is located within a printer remote from the computer system which includes everything from the deserialiser onwards. It will be appreciated however that the indicated division between computer system and printer is somewhat arbitrary and various components can be placed on different sides of the divide without substantially altering the operation of the architecture as a whole. It will also be appreciated that some of the components in the architecture can be handled in hardware or software remotely from the main computer system and printer. For example rather than relying on the general purpose processor of a personal computer some of the components in the architecture can be accelerated using dedicated hardware.

In the preferred form the hardware pipelines are embodied in a Small Office Home Office Printer Engine Controller SoPEC as shown in and described in more detail below. The printer preferably also includes one or more system on a chip SoC components as well as the print engine pipeline control application specific logic configured to perform some or all of the functions described above in relation to the printing pipeline.

As shown in from the highest point of view a SoPEC device consists of 3 distinct subsystems a Central Processing Unit CPU subsystem a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM subsystem and a Print Engine Pipeline PEP subsystem .

The CPU subsystem includes a CPU that controls and configures all aspects of the other subsystems. It provides general support for interfacing and synchronizing the external printer with the internal print engine. It also controls the low speed communication to QA chips which are described elsewhere in this specification . The CPU subsystem also contains various peripherals to aid the CPU such as General Purpose Input Output GPIO which includes motor control an Interrupt Controller Unit ICU LSS Master and general timers. The Serial Communications Block SCB on the CPU subsystem provides a full speed USB1.1 interface to the host as well as an Inter SoPEC Interface ISI to other SoPEC devices not shown .

The DRAM subsystem accepts requests from the CPU Serial Communications Block SCB and blocks within the PEP subsystem. The DRAM subsystem and in particular the DRAM Interface Unit DIU arbitrates the various requests and determines which request should win access to the DRAM. The DIU arbitrates based on configured parameters to allow sufficient access to DRAM for all requestors. The DIU also hides the implementation specifics of the DRAM such as page size number of banks and refresh rates.

The Print Engine Pipeline PEP subsystem accepts compressed pages from DRAM and renders them to bi level dots for a given print line destined for a printhead interface that communicates directly with up to 2 segments of a bi lithic printhead. The first stage of the page expansion pipeline is the Contone Decoder Unit CDU Lossless Bi level Decoder LBD and Tag Encoder TE . The CDU expands the JPEG compressed contone typically CMYK layers the LBD expands the compressed bi level layer typically K and the TE encodes Netpage tags for later rendering typically in IR or K ink . The output from the first stage is a set of buffers the Contone FIFO unit CFU the Spot FIFO Unit SFU and the Tag FIFO Unit TFU . The CFU and SFU buffers are implemented in DRAM.

The second stage is the Halftone Compositor Unit HCU which dithers the contone layer and composites position tags and the bi level spot layer over the resulting bi level dithered layer.

A number of compositing options can be implemented depending upon the printhead with which the SoPEC device is used. Up to 6 channels of bi level data are produced from this stage although not all channels may be present on the printhead. For example the printhead may be CMY only with K pushed into the CMY channels and IR ignored. Alternatively the encoded tags may be printed in K if IR ink is not available or for testing purposes .

In the third stage a Dead Nozzle Compensator DNC compensates for dead nozzles in the printhead by color redundancy and error diffusing of dead nozzle data into surrounding dots.

The resultant bi level 6 channel dot data typically CMYK Infrared Fixative is buffered and written to a set of line buffers stored in DRAM via a Dotline Writer Unit DWU .

Finally the dot data is loaded back from DRAM and passed to the printhead interface via a dot FIFO. The dot FIFO accepts data from a Line Loader Unit LLU at the system clock rate pclk while the PrintHead Interface PHI removes data from the FIFO and sends it to the printhead at a rate of times the system clock rate.

In the preferred form the DRAM is 2.5 Mbytes in size of which about 2 Mbytes are available for compressed page store data. A compressed page is received in two or more bands with a number of bands stored in memory. As a band of the page is consumed by the PEP subsystem for printing a new band can be downloaded. The new band may be for the current page or the next page.

Using banding it is possible to begin printing a page before the complete compressed page is downloaded but care must be taken to ensure that data is always available for printing or a buffer under run may occur.

The embedded USB 1.1 device accepts compressed page data and control commands from the host PC and facilitates the data transfer to either the DRAM or to another SoPEC device in multi SoPEC systems as described below .

Multiple SoPEC devices can be used in alternative embodiments and can perform different functions depending upon the particular implementation. For example in some cases a SoPEC device can be used simply for its onboard DRAM while another SoPEC device attends to the various decompression and formatting functions described above. This can reduce the chance of buffer under run which can happen in the event that the printer commences printing a page prior to all the data for that page being received and the rest of the data is not received in time. Adding an extra SoPEC device for its memory buffering capabilities doubles the amount of data that can be buffered even if none of the other capabilities of the additional chip are utilized.

Each SoPEC system can have several quality assurance QA devices designed to cooperate with each other to ensure the quality of the printer mechanics the quality of the ink supply so the printhead nozzles will not be damaged during prints and the quality of the software to ensure printheads and mechanics are not damaged.

Normally each printing SoPEC will have an associated printer QA which stores information printer attributes such as maximum print speed. An ink cartridge for use with the system will also contain an ink QA chip which stores cartridge information such as the amount of ink remaining. The printhead also has a QA chip configured to act as a ROM effectively as an EEPROM that stores printhead specific information such as dead nozzle mapping and printhead characteristics. The CPU in the SoPEC device can optionally load and run program code from a QA Chip that effectively acts as a serial EEPROM. Finally the CPU in the SoPEC device runs a logical QA chip i.e. a software QA chip .

Usually all QA chips in the system are physically identical with only the contents of flash memory differentiating one from the other.

Each SoPEC device has two LSS system buses that can communicate with QA devices for system authentication and ink usage accounting. A large number of QA devices can be used per bus and their position in the system is unrestricted with the exception that printer QA and ink QA devices should be on separate LSS busses.

In use the logical QA communicates with the ink QA to determine remaining ink. The reply from the ink QA is authenticated with reference to the printer QA. The verification from the printer QA is itself authenticated by the logical QA thereby indirectly adding an additional authentication level to the reply from the ink QA.

Data passed between the QA chips other than the printhead QA is authenticated by way of digital signatures. In the preferred embodiment HMAC SHA1 authentication is used for data and RSA is used for program code although other schemes could be used instead.

A single SoPEC device can control two bi lithic printheads and up to six color channels. Six channels of colored ink are the expected maximum in a consumer SOHO or office bi lithic printing environment and include 

Because the bi lithic printer is capable of printing so fast a fixative may be required to enable the ink to dry before the page touches the page already printed. Otherwise ink may bleed between pages. In relatively low speed printing environments the fixative may not be required.

In the preferred form the SoPEC device is color space agnostic. Although it can accept contone data as CMYX or RGBX where X is an optional 4th channel it also can accept contone data in any print color space. Additionally SoPEC provides a mechanism for arbitrary mapping of input channels to output channels including combining dots for ink optimization and generation of channels based on any number of other channels. However inputs are typically CMYK for contone input K for the bi level input and the optional Netpage tag dots are typically rendered to an infrared layer. A fixative channel is typically generated for fast printing applications.

In the preferred form the SoPEC device is also resolution agnostic. It merely provides a mapping between input resolutions and output resolutions by means of scale factors. The expected output resolution for the preferred embodiment is 1600 dpi but SoPEC actually has no knowledge of the physical resolution of the Bi lithic printhead.

In the preferred form the SoPEC device is page length agnostic. Successive pages are typically split into bands and downloaded into the page store as each band of information is consumed.

The following three tables show the constituents of each of the three distinct subsystems which make up the SoPEC device. In particular each of the columns provide the unit acronym the unit name and a description of the functions performed by each unit.

In the preferred form a Memjet printer has two printhead integrated circuits that are mounted adjacent each other to form a pagewidth printhead. Typically the printhead ICs can vary in size from 2 inches to 8 inches so several combinations can be used to produce say an A4 pagewidth printhead. For example two printhead ICs of 7 and 3 inches 2 and 4 inches or 5 and 5 inches could be used to create an A4 printhead the notation is 7 3 . Similarly 6 and 4 6 4 or 5 and 5 5 5 combinations can be used. An A3 printhead can be constructed from 8 and 6 inch printhead integrated circuits for example. For photographic printing particularly in camera smaller printheads can be used. It will also be appreciated that a single printhead integrated circuit or more than two such circuits can also be used to achieve the required printhead width.

A preferred printhead embodiment will now be described with reference to . As best shown in and a printhead takes the form of an elongate unit. As best shown in the components of the printhead include a support member a flexible PCB an ink distribution molding an ink distribution plate a MEMS printhead comprising first and second printhead integrated circuits ICs and and busbars .

The support member is can be formed from any suitable material such as metal or plastic and can be extruded molded or formed in any other way. The support member should be strong enough to hold the other components in the appropriate alignment relative to each other whilst stiffening and strengthening the printhead as a whole.

The flexible PCB extends the length of the printhead and includes first and second electrical connectors and . The electrical connectors and correspond with the flexible connectors shown . The electrical connectors include contact areas and that in use are positioned in contact with corresponding output connectors not shown from the SoPEC chip . Data from the SoPEC chip passes along the electrical connectors and and is distributed to respective ends of the first and second printhead ICs and .

As shown in the ink distribution molding includes a plurality of elongate conduits that distribute fluids i.e. colored inks infrared ink and fixative and pressurized air from the air pump along the length of the printhead . Sets of fluid apertures disposed along the length of the ink distribution molding distribute the fluids and air from the conduits to the ink distribution plate . The fluids and air are supplied via nozzles formed on a plug which plugs into a corresponding socket not shown in the printer.

The distribution plate is a multi layer construction configured to take fluids provided locally from the fluid apertures and distribute them through smaller distribution apertures into the printhead ICs and as shown in .

The printhead ICs and are positioned end to end and are held in contact with the distribution plate so that ink from the smaller distribution apertures can be fed into corresponding apertures not shown in the printhead ICs and .

The busbars are relatively high capacity conductors positioned to provide drive current to the actuators of the printhead nozzles described in detail below . As best shown in the busbars are retained in position at one end by a socket and at both ends by wrap around wings of the flexible PCB . The busbars also help hold the printhead ICs in position as best shown in and .

As shown best in and when assembled the flexible PCB is effectively wrapped around the other components thereby holding them in contact with each other. Notwithstanding this binding effect the support member provides a major proportion of the required stiffness and strength of the printhead as a whole.

Turning now to a preferred embodiment of the printhead comprising printhead ICs and will be described. For clarity only one printhead IC is shown in but it will be appreciated that a corresponding arrangement is implemented for the printhead IC .

The nozzle control logic is configured to send serial data to the nozzle array core for printing via a link which for printhead is the electrical connector . Status and other operational information about the nozzle array core is communicated back to the nozzle control logic via another link which is also provided on the electrical connector .

The nozzle array core is shown in more detail in . In it will be seen that the nozzle array core comprises an array of nozzle columns . The array includes a fire select shift register and up to 6 color channels each of which is represented by a corresponding dot shift register .

As shown in the fire select shift register includes forward path fire shift register a reverse path fire shift register and a select shift register . Each dot shift register includes an odd dot shift register and an even dot shift register . The odd and even dot shift registers and are connected at one end such that data is clocked through the odd shift register in one direction then through the even shift register in the reverse direction. The output of all but the final even dot shift register is fed to one input of a multiplexer . This input of the multiplexer is selected by a signal corescan during post production testing. In normal operation the corescan signal selects dot data input Dot x supplied to the other input of the multiplexer . This causes Dot x for each color to be supplied to the respective dot shift registers .

A single column N will now be described with reference to . In the embodiment shown the column N includes 12 data values comprising an odd data value and an even data value for each of the six dot shift registers. Column N also includes an odd fire value from the forward fire shift register and an even fire value from the reverse fire shift register which are supplied as inputs to a multiplexer . The output of the multiplexer is controlled by the select value in the select shift register . When the select value is zero the odd fire value is output and when the select value is one the even fire value is output.

Each of the odd and even data values and is provided as an input to corresponding odd and even dot latches and respectively.

Each dot latch and its associated data value form a unit cell such as unit cell . A unit cell is shown in more detail in . The dot latch is a D type flip flop that accepts the output of the data value which is held by a D type flip flop forming an element of the odd dot shift register . The data input to the flip flop is provided from the output of a previous element in the odd dot shift register unless the element under consideration is the first element in the shift register in which case its input is the Dot x value . Data is clocked from the output of flip flop into latch upon receipt of a negative pulse provided on LsyncL.

The output of latch is provided as one of the inputs to a three input AND gate . Other inputs to the AND gate are the Fr signal from the output of multiplexer and a pulse profile signal Pr. The firing time of a nozzle is controlled by the pulse profile signal Pr and can be for example lengthened to take into account a low voltage condition that arises due to low battery in a battery powered embodiment . This is to ensure that a relatively consistent amount of ink is efficiently ejected from each nozzle as it is fired. In the embodiment described the profile signal Pr is the same for each dot shift register which provides a balance between complexity cost and performance. However in other embodiments the Pr signal can be applied globally i.e. is the same for all nozzles or can be individually tailored to each unit cell or even to each nozzle.

Once the data is loaded into the latch the fire enable Fr and pulse profile Pr signals are applied to the AND gate combining to the trigger the nozzle to eject a dot of ink for each latch that contains a logic 1.

As shown in the fire signals Fr are routed on a diagonal to enable firing of one color in the current column the next color in the following column and so on. This averages the current demand by spreading it over 6 columns in time delayed fashion.

The dot latches and the latches forming the various shift registers are fully static in this embodiment and are CMOS based. The design and construction of latches is well known to those skilled in the art of integrated circuit engineering and design and so will not be described in detail in this document.

The combined printhead ICs define a printhead having 13824 nozzles per color. Therefore in the case where the printhead ICs and are equal in length each of them includes 6912 nozzles per color. The circuitry supporting each nozzle is the same but the pairing of nozzles happens due to physical positioning of the MEMS nozzles odd and even nozzles are not actually on the same horizontal line

Power and ground are provided via pads disposed along the length of the printhead ICs. The pads are connected to busbars using conductive adhesive as described above.

The preferred printhead nozzle arrangement comprising a nozzle and corresponding actuator will now be described with reference to . shows an array of the nozzle arrangements formed on a silicon substrate . The nozzle arrangements are identical but in the preferred embodiment different nozzle arrangements are fed with different colored inks and fixative. It will be noted that rows of the nozzle arrangements are staggered with respect to each other allowing closer spacing of ink dots during printing than would be possible with a single row of nozzles. The multiple rows also allow for redundancy if desired thereby allowing for a predetermined failure rate per nozzle.

Each nozzle arrangement is the product of an integrated circuit fabrication technique. In particular the nozzle arrangement defines a micro electromechanical system MEMS .

For clarity and ease of description the construction and operation of a single nozzle arrangement will be described with reference to .

Each of the ink jet printhead chips includes a silicon wafer substrate . 0.35 Micron 1 P4M 12 volt CMOS microprocessing circuitry is positioned on the silicon wafer substrate .

A silicon dioxide or alternatively glass layer is positioned on the wafer substrate . The silicon dioxide layer defines CMOS dielectric layers. CMOS top level metal defines a pair of aligned aluminium electrode contact layers positioned on the silicon dioxide layer . Both the silicon wafer substrate and the silicon dioxide layer are etched to define an ink inlet channel having a generally circular cross section in plan . An aluminium diffusion barrier of CMOS metal CMOS metal and CMOS top level metal is positioned in the silicon dioxide layer about the ink inlet channel . The diffusion barrier serves to inhibit the diffusion of hydroxyl ions through CMOS oxide layers of the drive circuitry layer .

A passivation layer in the form of a layer of silicon nitride is positioned over the aluminium contact layers and the silicon dioxide layer . Each portion of the passivation layer positioned over the contact layers has an opening defined therein to provide access to the contacts .

The nozzle arrangement includes a nozzle chamber defined by an annular nozzle wall which terminates in a nozzle rim that is circular in plan. The ink inlet channel is in fluid communication with the nozzle chamber . At a lower end of the nozzle wall there is disposed a moving rim that includes a moving seal lip . An encircling wall surrounds the movable nozzle and includes a stationary seal lip that when the nozzle is at rest as shown in is adjacent the moving rim . A fluidic seal is formed due to the surface tension of ink trapped between the stationary seal lip and the moving seal lip . This prevents leakage of ink from the chamber whilst providing a low resistance coupling between the encircling wall and the nozzle wall .

As best shown in a plurality of radially extending recesses is defined in the roof about the nozzle rim . The recesses serve to contain radial ink flow as a result of ink escaping past the nozzle rim .

The nozzle wall forms part of a lever arrangement that is mounted to a carrier having a generally U shaped profile with a base attached to the layer of silicon nitride.

The lever arrangement also includes a lever arm that extends from the nozzle walls and incorporates a lateral stiffening beam . The lever arm is attached to a pair of passive beams formed from titanium nitride TiN and positioned on either side of the nozzle arrangement as best shown in . The other ends of the passive beams are attached to the carrier .

The lever arm is also attached to an actuator beam which is formed from TiN. It will be noted that this attachment to the actuator beam is made at a point a small but critical distance higher than the attachments to the passive beam .

As best shown in the actuator beam is substantially U shaped in plan defining a current path between the electrode and an opposite electrode . Each of the electrodes and are electrically connected to respective points in the contact layer shown in . As well as being electrically coupled via the contacts the actuator beam is also mechanically anchored to anchor . The anchor is configured to constrain motion of the actuator beam to the left of when the nozzle arrangement is in operation.

The TiN in the actuator beam is conductive but has a high enough electrical resistance that it undergoes self heating when a current is passed between the electrodes and . No current flows through the passive beams so they do not expand.

In use the device at rest is filled with ink that defines a meniscus under the influence of surface tension. The ink is retained in the chamber by the meniscus and will not generally leak out in the absence of some other physical influence.

As shown in to fire ink from the nozzle a current is passed between the contacts and passing through the actuator beam . The self heating of the beam due to its resistance causes the beam to expand. The dimensions and design of the actuator beam mean that the majority of the expansion in a horizontal direction with respect to . The expansion is constrained to the left by the anchor so the end of the actuator beam adjacent the lever arm is impelled to the right.

The relative horizontal inflexibility of the passive beams prevents them from allowing much horizontal movement with respect to the lever arm . However the relative displacement of the attachment points of the passive beams and actuator beam respectively to the lever arm causes a twisting movement that causes the lever arm to move generally downwards. The movement is effectively a pivoting or hinging motion. However the absence of a true pivot point means that the rotation is about a pivot region defined by bending of the passive beams .

The downward movement and slight rotation of the lever arm is amplified by the distance of the nozzle wall from the passive beams . The downward movement of the nozzle walls and roof causes a pressure increase within the chamber causing the meniscus to bulge as shown in . It will be noted that the surface tension of the ink means the fluid seal is stretched by this motion without allowing ink to leak out.

As shown in at the appropriate time the drive current is stopped and the actuator beam quickly cools and contracts. The contraction causes the lever arm to commence its return to the quiescent position which in turn causes a reduction in pressure in the chamber . The interplay of the momentum of the bulging ink and its inherent surface tension and the negative pressure caused by the upward movement of the nozzle chamber causes thinning and ultimately snapping of the bulging meniscus to define an ink drop that continues upwards until it contacts adjacent print media.

Immediately after the drop detaches the meniscus forms the concave shape shown in . Surface tension causes the pressure in the chamber to remain relatively low until ink has been sucked upwards through the inlet which returns the nozzle arrangement and the ink to the quiescent situation shown in .

As best shown in the nozzle arrangement also incorporates a test mechanism that can be used both post manufacture and periodically after the printhead is installed. The test mechanism includes a pair of contacts that are connected to test circuitry not shown . A bridging contact is provided on a finger that extends from the lever arm . Because the bridging contact is on the opposite side of the passive beams actuation of the nozzle causes the priding contact to move upwardly into contact with the contacts . Test circuitry can be used to confirm that actuation causes this closing of the circuit formed by the contacts and . If the circuit closed appropriately it can generally be assumed that the nozzle is operative.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is shown in . Referring particularly to a flat panel display unit includes a flat panel display that is supported on a stand . The present invention primarily applies to flat panel displays where a viewable size of the flat panel display exceeds 40 cm measured along a diagonal of the flat panel display. The stand includes a base portion which supports an arm to which a housing for the display is hingedly connected. Various control buttons are provided on the display unit for controlling display functions such as contrast brightness color temperature and the like.

The display unit incorporates a page width printer described below that accepts in the preferred embodiments shown in single sheets of standard A4 or US Letter paper . A curved paper guide causes paper exiting the printer to be directed away from the base of the display unit as best shown in .

The sub components that comprise the display unit are shown in exploded view in . A mounting plate is hingedly mounted to the arm and attached to a rear cover molding formed from a plastics material. The cover molding is perforated to allow convective air currents to cool the electronic circuitry inside the display unit .

A metallic radio frequency interference and electromagnetic interference RFI EMI shield fits inside the concave side of the rear cover molding . The shield screens the various circuitry elements from external radiation whilst reducing any radiation generated by the circuitry being transmitted from the display unit . The shield takes the form of a cage with cooling holes that allow ventilation of the circuitry. An additional shield covers the printhead described below in relation to .

The various electronic mechanical and electromechanical components that comprise the printer are mounted on interconnected printed circuit boards PCBs as best shown in . The PCBs include a printhead PCB an analog converter PCB a backlight inverter PCB and a power supply unit PSU . The PSU supplies power at appropriate voltage and current to the various other PCBs via wiring .

Turning to the printhead PCB forms part of a print engine assembly . The print engine assembly also includes paper feed rollers a platen for supporting paper as it is fed past the printhead an air pump for supplying pressurized air to the printhead a flexible connector for supplying data from the print engine chips on the print engine PCB to the printhead an ink delivery bus and a print engine controller SoPEC chip . The feed rollers are driven by a paper drive motor and drive assembly .

As shown in in which the platen and feed rollers are removed for clarity the print engine assembly also includes support metalwork for mounting the various components copper busbars for supplying power from the power leads to the printheads and flexible paper guide fingers . Ink channel moldings route ink from the ink delivery bus which also includes electrical contacts that enable communication between an ink cartridge described below and the print engine assembly. It will be noted that the present embodiment includes two printhead segments and of equal length that together form a pagewidth printhead. As described earlier in this document 

Referring back to a metal paper chute is provided to guide paper behind the display and down to the printhead. A metal chassis is provided to support the display which is surrounded and protected by a plastic front bezel molding . A menu PCB holds the menu buttons and associated status LEDs.

As best shown in the display unit is provided with power via a mains cord and associated mains plug . The mains plug is inserted into mains socket which is shown in with the mains plug removed. The mains socket is hard wired into the PSU .

A video input cable and associated video plug supply video data from a computer. The video plug is inserted into a video socket which is shown in with the video plug removed for clarity.

A data connection in the form of a USB 2 link is provided by way of a data cable and associated data plug . The plug is inserted into a USB 2 compliant data socket which is shown in with the data plug removed for clarity.

As shown in an ink cartridge containing the various inks required for operation of the printer releasably engages the ink delivery bus via an aperture formed in the rear molding . The cartridge is preferably held in position by an interference fit although a positive retaining mechanism such as a clip can be supplied in alternative embodiments. As best shown in the ink delivery bus includes a plurality of fluid ports that engage with corresponding fluid outputs not shown formed in the cartridge. In the embodiment shown each fluid port includes a hollow needle that penetrates a seal not shown in the corresponding fluid output. The seal can be an annular resilient seal with a frangible membrane or simply a frangible membrane that self seals around the needle as the cartridge is inserted into an operative position.

The cartridge contains the inks necessary for its use with the printer. The various possible combinations of colored inks such as CMY black ink infrared ink and a fixative are described elsewhere in this document. The cartridge also includes a QA Question Answer chip that is configured to store information accessible by the SoPEC chip such as ink levels remaining preferably on a per ink basis types of ink contained in the cartridge security data for ensuring the cartridge is compliant with the printer s needs and any other data that might be useful for the operation of the printer based on the particular cartridge inserted. The QA chip is electrically connected to a set of contacts not shown that operatively engage the electrical contacts on an edge of the ink delivery bus . The electrical contacts allow information to be read from the QA chip in the cartridge as required. This can be when the cartridge is first inserted and possibly periodically thereafter. In the preferred embodiment the SoPEC chip can also write back to the cartridge. Typically this will involve determining the amount of ink used and then updating the QA chip in the cartridge.

A number of other elements of the display unit not shown in other Figures are shown in . It will be noted that the flat panel display is preferably a Thin Film Transistor TFT Liquid Crystal Display LCD . However it will be understood that the particular technology employed in the flat panel display is not critical to the invention. The flat panel display can therefore be of any other type including those using Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED Field Emission Display FED and Plasma Display Panel PDP technologies.

As shown in the display unit includes row drivers and column drivers that are provided with input signals by an image processor located on the analog converter PCB . The image processor receives display data from a personal computer not shown via the video socket . The fluorescent backlight inverter PCB drives a fluorescent backlight .

The USB input provides data in accordance with the USB 2 protocol to the SoPEC chip . The image processor can also provide data to the SoPEC chip as described in detail below.

Operation of the display unit will now be described with reference to . Display data is received from a personal computer or other suitable video data source via the video input socket . The display data is provided to the image processor which processes and converts it into a format suitable for supply to the row drivers and column drivers . These drive the various TFTs required to display the image on the flat panel display . The fluorescent backlight provides illumination from behind the TFTs thereby enhancing visibility of images displayed. Various display settings such as contrast brightness and resolution can be altered by a user via the controls .

The USB input socket accepts USB formatted data from a connected personal computer such as personal computer in . It will be appreciated that this data can come from any other suitable source such as a network connection or any other data communication link.

Upon receipt the data is forwarded via an internal USB link to the printhead PCB and the SoPEC chip . The data is decompressed and formatted in accordance with the steps shown in using the hardware described in relation to . The formatted data is forwarded from the SoPEC chip to the Memjet printheads and . The data is then printed onto the paper as it is driven past the printheads.

In the preferred embodiment the print button can be used to generate a printout of the presently displayed image. This enables a printout of the screen to be taken without the need to use a mouse keyboard or other control device associated with the personal computer .

The invention has a number of advantages over the prior art. The combination of a printer and flat panel display saves a considerable amount of room compared to a separate display and printer combination. The printed matter in the preferred embodiment is ejected right in front of the user unlike the case with prior art printers which are for the most part too bulky to be placed directly in front of the user.

In the particularly preferred embodiment described the pagewidth nature of the printer and its relatively compact dimensions compared with inkjet and laser printers respectively mean that high quality printing can be provided without substantially increasing the size of the flat panel display casing. Given that a major advantage of flat panel displays is their compactness this can be considered a major feature of the preferred embodiment. With the use of a pagewidth printhead there is less vibration than with a reciprocating inkjet printhead resulting in a more stable image for a user viewing the display whilst printing.

An alternative embodiment of the invention is shown in in which like numerals indicate features corresponding to those described in relation to the embodiment of . The embodiment of is a duplex printer which includes a pair printheads and . The printheads are preferably of the same construction as the single printhead each comprising two printhead segments. In the preferred embodiment each of the printheads and has its own associated SoPEC device.

In operation the embodiment of prints onto both sides of the paper as it is fed between the printheads and .

A further embodiment is shown in in which like numerals indicate features corresponding to those described in relation to the embodiment of . The embodiment includes a multi sheet feeder that enables a single sheet at a time to be taken from a stack of paper and fed past the printhead. The feeder is best shown in and includes a paper stop that holds a stack of paper in position. The preferred capacity of the stack is about 50 sheets although other capacities can be used. A flexible shim extends across the top of the paper stop terminating in an edge adjacent and below a pickup roller . The pickup roller is generally circular in cross section but incorporates a flat portion .

In use the paper stack is loaded such that it rest on the flexible shim which is in turn supported by the paper stop . The pickup roller is positioned rotationally such that the flat portion is aligned with the nearest piece of paper in the stack. The pickup roller is then rotated clockwise relative to until the rounded portion engages the piece of paper. As this happens friction between the paper and the roller increases causing a downward force on the paper. The flexible shim causes the sheet of paper to be separated from the stack and driven downwards towards the feed rollers . As the paper engages the feed rollers the flat spot rotates back into the position shown in which reduces the friction between the pickup roller and the paper thereby enabling the feed rollers to push the paper past the printhead.

It will be appreciated that any other known paper feeding mechanisms can be employed for taking a single sheet from a stack and feeding it for printing. It will also be appreciated that a duplex printhead arrangement such as that shown in can also be employed with a multi sheet feed mechanism.

Another embodiment is shown in in which the sockets and are positioned in the base portion of the display unit. This enables a neater arrangement of cables since there is no need to route them all the way up to the rear molding . Rather internal wiring takes the power and data from the sockets to the relevant components via the interior of the arms .

Yet another embodiment shown in the ink bus is positioned such that the ink cartridge is positioned on the mounting plate .

A desktop printer attached to a personal computer PC may usefully incorporate an Print button which when pressed causes the active Windows application on the PC to print its entire active document to the printer without an intervening print dialog.

As a variation on this theme when the printer is embedded in a flat panel display FPD then the Print button may be incorporated in the display.

By active application we mean the application whose window is top most and with which the user it typically currently interacting. By active document we mean the document displayed in the active application s top most window.

When the Print button is incorporated in a printer it is important that the button initiates printing to that printer. When the Print button is incorporated in a display it is reasonable for it to initiate printing to the default printer which may or may not be configured to be the in panel printer.

There is no single standard way under Microsoft Windows to programmatically instruct the active application to print its active document to the default or to a designated printer. However there are several mechanisms which may be exploited covering most application types.

Although not explored here comparable mechanisms exists under other operating systems and windowing systems including Apple MacOS Unix X Windows Linux etc. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to use with any particular hardware operating system or software combination.

Most Microsoft Windows applications as a matter of convention provide a fairly standard printing user interface. This consists of a a Print option on the File menu usually accessible via the two keyboard sequences ALT F P and CTRL P which displays a print dialog to print the current document and b a Print tool on the toolbar shown as a printer icon which prints the current document to the default printer without displaying the print dialog. Dialog less direct printing has no standard keyboard shortcut.

If the active application is receptive to a keyboard sequence in this way then a client application can instruct it to print by queuing the appropriate keyboard events using the keybd event or SendInput SDK functions or by queuing the appropriate keyboard messages using the AttachThreadInput GetFocus and PostMessage SDK functions . Direct printing can be simulated by appending a carriage return to the keyboard sequence causing the print dialog to be completed without further user input.

Some Windows applications including Microsoft Office applications such as Word and Excel expose an Automation interface formerly known as OLE Automation which allows them to be controlled by a separate application. For example Word like many other Microsoft applications exposes a PrintOut method which can be invoked on the active document to print the document directly. A client application can discover an open Word document and print it in this way. The application can designate a particular printer by assigning the name of the printer to Word s ActivePrinter property prior to invoking the PrintOut method.

Automation servers such as Office applications register running instances of themselves in the Running Object Table ROT . Multi instance applications such as Excel and some versions of Word are only able to create a single application entry in the ROT. However multi instance applications typically also register each of their open documents separately in the ROT allowing the client application to find the application instance corresponding to a particular document via the document s entry in the ROT.

The client application can iterate through the ROT attach to each server application of interest in turn and identify whether the application is associated with the foreground window. If the server application is associated with the foreground window as identified by the GetForegroundWindow SDK function then the client application can invoke the application s PrintOut method or equivalent to print the active document.

In the case of a single instance application such as PowerPoint the client application attaches to the server application directly via the ROT entry. In the case of a multi instance application such as Excel the client application attaches to the server application via a document entry in the ROT.

The Windows SDK provides standard functions for obtaining a pointer to the ROT and iterating through it. Application and document entries in the ROT are easily recognised since each entry is associated with a class specific programmatic identifier. For example a Word application has the programmatic identifier Word.Application.x where x indicates the application version and a Word document has the identifier Word.Document.y where y indicates the document version . An application entry in the ROT conventionally includes the application s class identifier in its name from which the corresponding programmatic identifier can be obtained via the Windows registry. A document entry in the ROT allows its programmatic identifier to be discovered via the class identifier associated with the document s persistence interface.

Because there are several ways to programmatically instruct the current application to print its active document to the default or to a designated printer and because no single way is optimal for all applications support for a Print button is best provided in this embodiment by invoking the mechanism most appropriate to the current application according to the current application s type.

In its simplest form this consists of first trying to find the active application in the ROT specifying the target printer by setting the active application s ActivePrinter property and invoking the active application s PrintOut method. If the active application is not found in the ROT then the fallback consists of queuing the standard print invocation keyboard sequence i.e. Control key down P key down P key up Control key up CR key down CR key up .

In a more sophisticated implementation a table of applications is created which lists the mechanism most appropriate to each application type i.e. Automation versus keyboard sequence and exact application properties and methods to use or exact keyboard sequence to send. Automation server applications are identified by their programmatic identifiers while conventional applications are identified by their names. For example Word is identified by its programmatic identifier Word.Application.x while Notepad is identified by its name Notepad . It is straightforward to identify the foreground window via the GetForegroundWindow SDK function and extract the name of the corresponding active application from the window s title via the GetWindowText SDK function .

The Print button can be a physical momentary switch or it can be simulated via another interface on the printer or FPD such as a touch sensitive display. In any case when the user presses the print button an event is relayed to a background application on the PC which invokes the corresponding printing function as described above. The background application may already be executing i.e. awaiting events or it may be activated by the user s act of pressing the Print button. The button event can be relayed by the control software in the printer via the printer s communications interface and its printer driver and thence to the background application. Alternatively cacan be relayed via its own communications interface and driver in which case the driver and the background application may be one and the same. For example the print button can be provided in the form of a separate Universal Serial Bus USB device on the USB bus but may share the physical USB connection between the printer or FPD and the PC.

In the preferred embodiment the background application is capable of handling the Print buttons of multiple devices. To allow it to distinguish multiple buttons each button event in this embodiment uniquely identifies its originating button. An event may include a unique identifier associated with the printer in which the button is embedded or a unique identifier associated with the button itself retrieved from non volatile storage attached to the button. In cases where the target printer can be selected by setting the active server application s ActivePrinter property the background application must know which printer name to specify. Since it may be difficult for the background application to know the name of the printer associated with a particular Print button it is servicing it is useful to allow the user to associate a printer with each button indexed by the button s unique identifier. If a button is pressed which has no associated printer then the background application can determine how many printers are configured on the PC. If there is only one printer then the application has no need to specify a printer since the one printer must be the default printer. If there are several printers then the application can prompt the user to select one and can then record the association between the selected printer and the button. It is straightforward for the background application to enumerate the available printers using the EnumPrinters SDK function.

Various exemplary non limiting aspects of the invention are foreshadowed in the following numbered paragraphs 

