---

title: Projectile for standoff destruction of explosive devices
abstract: A projectile for safe standoff destruction of explosive devices. The projectile's casing encloses a chamber containing combustible material located opposite a roughened surface on the chamber. The combustible material is mounted so upon the projectile impacting the explosive device, the combustible material flies onto the roughened surface, heating the material by shear forces and igniting the material. This creates pressure bursting the chamber, injecting combustion gases into the explosive fill within the device, thereby igniting the fill locally at the impact, and along cracks in the fill. This arrangement prevents a coherent detonation wavefront from forming within the fill, and a slower burn of the fill, whereby a rifleman has little chance of receiving a concussive shock, or shrapnel, from the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08181576&OS=08181576&RS=08181576
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08181576
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100514
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention pertains to apparatus effective to remotely destroy or otherwise render safe explosive devices.

Projectiles are known to be a convenient way to destroy explosive devices such as a mine or an Improvised Explosive Device IED for example a mine buried in the ground having an earthen overburden a submerged mine under a water overburden or a remotely detonated roadside bomb. By shooting a projectile such as a bullet or higher caliber round into the explosive device from a safe distance one can initiate the explosive fill within the device and be rid of it. However to destroy a device such as a land mine or IED one must shoot at relatively close range. This situation exposes the rifleman to harm from the ignited device. Moreover servicemen in the field can only carry so much equipment with them so any projectile of practical use in the field must be reliably deployed using standard infantry weapons.

Accordingly an object of the invention is to permit safe standoff destruction of explosive devices such as mines or improvised explosive devices.

Another object is to do the foregoing by use of a projectile fireable as a bullet generally from an infantry rifle.

In accordance with these and other objects made apparent hereinafter it is an aspect of the invention to provide a projectile with an outer casing disposed about a space interior to the casing and an inner surface that defines the space a portion of which is given a preselected roughness. Disposed in the space is combustible material such that responsive to impacting of the projectile after firing the combustible material strikes against the roughened face. This arrangement permits as the projectile penetrates into its targeted explosive device the combustible material to shear against the roughened surface thereby heating and igniting the combustible material increasing pressure within and bursting the chamber. This arrangement injects hot combustion gases into the explosive fill of the explosive device locally at the point of projectile entry and along cracks in the explosive fill. As a result this invention prevents formation of a unitary ignition wavefront in the fill and causes the fill to undergo reduced reaction in effect burning albeit rapidly rather than exploding. Consequently this technology prevents the explosive device from producing a large concussive shock or generating enough explosive power to throw out shrapnel or other ballistic metal.

These and other objects are further understood from the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention. It is understood however that the invention is capable of extended application beyond the precise details of these embodiments. Changes and modifications may be made to the embodiments that do not affect the spirit of the invention nor exceed its scope as expressed in the appended claims. The embodiments are described with particular reference to the accompanying drawings wherein 

Each of is a side elevational view partly in section of a respective exemplary embodiment of the invention.

With reference to the drawing figures where like numbers indicate like parts throughout the several views shows explosive devices one of which is above ground the other of which is below ground and covered by earthen over burden . For purposes of illustration explosive device is shown as an improvised explosive device and object as a buried land mine. Standing off a distance from explosive devices is rifleman in transport facing the devices along lines of sight . As illustrated in rifleman fires projectiles at objects with the intent of safely destroying objects and and by safely it is meant destroying the explosive fills in without exposing rifleman to an explosive concussion or blow back of ballistic metal.

In operation rifleman shoots projectile at either explosive device or to render the device harmless. Earthen over burden is far less dense and structurally harder compared to land mine so the effect of projectile on either land mine or IED is essentially the same. Upon impact projectile breaches the outer casing of the explosive device and penetrates into its explosive fill. The impact simultaneously dislodges combustible material from annular lip freeing combustible material to fly by inertia forcibly into roughened surface . The grooves of surface being annularly extending transverse to direction exert shearing on combustible material as the material strikes surface heating material and igniting it. As combustible material burns it rapidly fills chamber with combustion gases which burst projectile thereby injecting hot gas into the portion of the explosive fill of or adjacent projectile s entry point and along cracks in the explosive fill opened by projectile s impact. This sequence ignites the explosive fill locally and irregularly as opposed to igniting the fill along a continuous wavefront. In this manner projectile induces a low order detonation that will cause the explosive fill of or to burn rather than to undergo a high order detonation that could injure rifleman .

Combustible material may be any appropriate fuel oxidizer mix for example Department of Transportation Hazard Class 1.3 1.4 or 4.1 but not Hazard Class 1.1. The roughness of surface is in an exemplary embodiment about a 200 to about a 300 grit surface with a higher roughness generally for less combustible fuel oxidizer mixes or mixes in powdered form which will have little internal shearing to aid surface to heat material . The fuel in material may be for example aluminum zirconium titanium or hafnium. Of these aluminum has higher energy output and hence higher gas pressure in chamber but is susceptible to oxidation. Hafnium is less given to oxidation but produces less combustion energy and a correspondingly lower reaction pressure. Zirconium and titanium have exothermic and field stability properties between those of aluminum and hafnium. The oxidizer in combustible material may be any chlorate or perchlorate such as sodium potassium or lithium chlorate. Fluorine compounds such as aluminum fluoride are also effective oxidizers but have the disadvantage of producing highly toxic fluoride fluorine compounds notably the exceptionally caustic hydrogen fluoride. Generally a .50 caliber bullet or a 7.62 mm bullet such as the M 14 rifle uses will generate impact temperatures in excess of 1 500 F. easily sufficient to ignite these fuel oxide mixes so in general all else being equal the higher the ignition temperature of material the better. Commercial explosives that are appropriate as material include TNT RX RDX HMX and Composition B. Of these TNT is more shock insensitive and hence more stable in the field in comparison to RDX and HMX which are relatively more shock and friction sensitive to detonation. Composition B is more sensitive to impact.

The invention has been described in what is considered to be various exemplary embodiments. It is recognized however that obvious modifications to these embodiments may occur to those with skill in this art. For example from the foregoing one can see that parts from each of the above described embodiments may be used together advantageously with those of other embodiments and that although the foregoing discusses projectiles in the form of rifle bullets the invention is useful with any ordnance system that can deliver the projectile with sufficiently modest energy to ensure that the projectile will not kinetically detonate a targeted explosive fill. Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

