---

title: Variable resistance memory devices and methods of programming variable resistance memory devices
abstract: A variable resistance memory device includes a variable resistance memory cell, and a by-pass circuit configured to electrically by-pass a programming pulse supplied to the variable resistance memory cell after a resistive state of the variable resistance memory cell has changed in response to the programming pulse.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08451645&OS=08451645&RS=08451645
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08451645
owner_city: Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20100806
---
A claim of priority is made to Korean patent application no. 10 2009 0072889 filed Aug. 7 2010 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The inventive concepts described herein generally relate to memory devices and more particularly the inventive concepts relate to variable resistance memory devices and to methods of programming variable resistance memory devices.

Non volatile memory devices are widely used in many consumer commercial and other applications. While some non volatile memory devices such as flash memory use accumulated charge to store data some other memory devices such as resistive random access memory ReRAM phase change RAM PRAM and magnetic RAM MRAM use changes in resistivity of a material therein as the mechanism by which data is stored.

A resistive random access memory ReRAM is a non volatile memory device that uses changing resistance characteristics of a material having a variable resistance that changes significantly at a particular voltage. In one example the material may be a transition metal oxide TMO . When a SET voltage is applied to a variable resistance material a resistance of the variable resistance material decreases. This state is typically referred to as a SET state or an ON state. When a RESET voltage is applied to a variable resistance material the resistance of the variable resistance material increases. This state is typically referred to as a RESET state or an OFF state.

According to an aspect of the inventive concepts described herein a variable resistance memory device is provided which includes a variable resistance memory cell and a by pass circuit configured to electrically by pass a programming pulse supplied to the variable resistance memory cell after a resistive state of the variable resistance memory cell has changed in response to the programming pulse.

According to another aspect of the inventive concepts described herein a variable resistance memory device is provided which includes a variable resistance memory cell array including a plurality of variable resistance memory cells electrically connected between a plurality of bit lines and a plurality of words lines a current limiting circuit which limits a cell current magnitude of the variable resistance memory cells and a by pass circuit configured to electrically by pass a programming pulse supplied to the variable resistance memory cells after a resistive state of the variable resistance memory cells has changed in response to the programming pulse.

According to yet another aspect of the inventive concepts described herein a computing system is provided which includes a bus system a central processing unit CPU operative coupled to the bus system and a non volatile random access memory. The non volatile random access memory includes non volatile variable resistance memory cells and a by pass circuit configured to electrically by pass a programming pulse supplied to the variable resistance memory cells after a resistive state of the variable resistance memory cells has changed in response to the programming pulse.

Various example embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings where like reference numbers are used to denote like or similar elements. The inventive concepts may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein.

In the drawings the relative dimensions of device layers may be exaggerated for clarity. That is for example the relative thicknesses and or widths of layers may be varied from those depicted. For example unless the description clearly indicates otherwise if a first layer is shown as being thicker than a second layer the two layers may instead have the same thickness or the second layer may be thicker than the first layer.

To facilitate understanding a number of non limiting descriptive terms may be utilized which are not intended to define the scope of the inventive concepts. For example although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are simply used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from or limiting the scope of the inventive concepts. Likewise the words over under above below etc. are relative terms which are not intended to limit the inventive concepts to a particular device orientation. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Further the terminology utilized herein often makes reference to a layer of material. It will be understood that the inventive concepts are not limited to single layer structures when reference is made to a layer of material. For example an insulating layer can actually encompass multiple layers of insulating material which essentially achieve the same insulating functions as a single insulating layer of material. This same reasoning is to be applied to semiconductor and conductive regions as well.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Turning now to the drawings depicts a circuit diagram and schematic view of a variable resistance memory cell. More precisely this figure illustrates a variable resistance memory cell which in this example includes a resistive storage element sandwiched between electrodes and . In this particular example the resistive storage element includes a transition metal oxide TMO such as nickel oxide NiOand the electrodes and include a metal such as platinum Pt . Other non limiting candidate materials for the resistive storage element include a Ni oxide doped with Ti a Co oxide a Hf oxide a Zn oxide a W oxide a Nb oxide an Al oxide a V oxide a Cr oxide a Fe oxide a Ta oxide a combination thereof or the like. Other non limiting candidate materials for the electrodes and include Al Hf Zr Zn W Co Au Ag Pd Ru Ir Ti or a conductive metal oxide or a combination thereof or the like.

In when the variable resistor is in a SET state low resistance state and a voltage applied to the variable resistor increases the resultant current increases as indicated by the dashed line . When the applied voltage reaches a RESET threshold voltage Vr the resistance increases abruptly as shown and the variable resistor transitions into the RESET state high resistance state .

On the other hand when the variable resistor is in the RESET state and a voltage applied to the variable resistor increases the resultant current gradually increases as indicated by arrow . When the applied voltage reaches a SET threshold voltage Vs the resistance of the variable resistor decreases abruptly as shown and the variable resistor transitions to the SET state.

As mentioned above the compliance resistance RCL functions as a current limiting device and is present in the current I path of the memory cell during the low resistance SET programming of the variable resistor . In this manner magnitude of the SET current is limited Ilim during SET programming thus avoiding unnecessary stress on the variable resistor . In this manner the useful life of the variable resistor may be extended.

However due to various parasitic capacitances and the like that are present in the operational circuits of the ReRAM memory cell including the variable resistor a non ideal current limiting condition is created in which the SET current initially overshoots the limit current Ilim and gradually drops decays to the limit current Ilim. This overshoot interval which is represented in by reference numeral can add stress to the variable resistor thus reducing the useful life the variable resistor .

Reference is now made to which illustrates a variable resistive memory device according to one or more inventive aspects described herein.

As shown in the variable resistance memory cell device of this example includes variable resistance memory cell and a by pass circuit . Also shown is a compliance resistor RCL which may be present in the current path of the memory cell when the memory cell is programmed to a given resistive state for example to a high resistance or SET state.

The by pass circuit is configured to electrically by pass the memory cell after the variable resistance memory cell has changed its resistive state during a programming operation. illustrates the by pass circuit connected in parallel with variable resistance memory cell . However it will be understood that the by pass circuit may be connected in other ways to divert current supply to the variable resistance memory cell . For example as shown by the dashed line in the by passing function may be realized by diverting to ground GND current otherwise supplied to the variable resistance memory cell .

An operation of the variable resistance memory cell device shown in will now be described with reference to the timing diagram of .

Referring to during SET programming the resistance of the memory cell abruptly decreases upon application of a SET threshold voltage memory cell . This is described above in connection with . As a result the cell current Icell abruptly increases and due to parasitic capacitances and the like the cell current Icell increases beyond the SET limit current Ilim. At this time the memory cell is in the SET state. After the lapse of a given time interval T the by pass circuit operates to bypass or divert the current flow through the memory cell thus causing the cell current Icell to abruptly drop to substantially zero. This is represented in by the area designated by reference number . In contrast the dashed line of reference numeral denotes a cell current Icell characteristic in the absence of the by pass circuit . It can be readily seen that the cumulative energy applied to the memory cell by operation of the by pass circuit and thus the stress applied to the memory cell is reduced.

The variable resistance memory cell device of the example of includes a variable resistance memory cell a delay circuit and a by pass transistor . The by pass transistor is connected across the memory cell at nodes N and N and is on off controlled in to a by pass signal Vpass generated by the delay circuit . Also shown is a compliance transistor CLTR which is on off controlled by a compliance signal Vcomp.

An example of the operation of the variable resistance memory cell device of will now be described with reference to the timing diagram of .

The dashed line of represents the cell current Icell in the absence of operation of the delay circuit and by pass transistor . It is readily apparent that the energy applied to the memory cell is significantly reduced by diverting current away from the memory cell after transition to the SET state.

As shown in the variable resistance memory cell device of this example includes a memory cell array including a plurality of memory cells each including variable resistance memory cell element MC. Although not shown each memory cell may further include a switching element such as a diode or transistor. The memory cell device further includes a plurality of bit lines BL BL and word lines WL WL and the memory cells are connected at intersections thereof.

Reference number of denotes a column decoder and reference numeral denotes a row decoder. The column decoder includes a plurality of bit line selection transistors BST BST connected between a node N and the respective bit lines BL BL. The row decoder includes a plurality of word line selection transistors WST WST connected between a reference voltage e.g. ground GND and the respective word lines WL WL. The bit line selection transistors BST BST are respectively controlled by gated to first bit line selection signals BLS BLS and the word line selection transistors WST WST are respectively controlled by gate to word line selection signals WLS WLS. The first bit line selection signals BLS BLS may for example correspond to column addresses and the word line selection signals WLS WLS may for example correspond to row addresses.

The variable resistance memory cell device of further includes a compliance circuit a delay circuit and a by pass transistor BPTR .

The compliance circuit includes a plurality of compliance transistors CLTR CLTR connected between a node N and the respective bit lines BL BL. The compliance circuit functions analogously to the column decoder in that the compliance transistors CLTR CLTR are controlled by second bit line selection signals BLS BLS which correspond to the first bit line selection signals BLS BLS. However each compliance transistor CLTR CLTR and or second bit line selections signal BLS BLS is configured to establish a given current limiting resistive element for the variable resistive memory cells connected to each bit line BL BL. The first bit line selection signal BLS BLS may be the same the second bit line selection signal BLS BLS or the first bit line selection signal BLS BLS may be separately generated from the second bit line selection signal BLS BLS .

The delay circuit and by pass transistor of generally correspond to the delay circuit and by pass transistor shown in previously described . The delay circuit may for example include series connected invertors not shown . However the internal configuration of the delay circuit is not limited. The by pass transistor is controlled by gate to an output of the delay circuit and is connected between the node N and a reference potential e.g. ground GND .

An operation of the variable resistance memory cell device of will now be described with respect to SET programming of the memory cell of the memory cell array .

Initially word line WL and bit line BL are selected by the row decoder and column decoder i.e. by turning ON the selection transistors WST and BST in response to the word and bit line selection signals WLS and BLS. In addition the compliance transistor CLTR is turned ON within the compliance circuit in response to the second bit line selection signal BLS . Then a SET programming pulse PGM Pulse is applied to node N. As a result the resistance of the variable resistive element MC of the memory cell abruptly decreases as described previously in connection with and the memory cell is transitioned to the SET state. In the meantime the delay circuit delays the SET programming pulse PGM Pulse to generate a delayed pulse Vpass see described above . After the memory cell has changed to the SET state the delayed pulse Vpass turns ON the by pass transistor . As a result the programming current on the bit line BL resulting from the programming pulse PGM Pulse is diverted to ground thus bypassing the memory cell MC .

As shown in the variable resistance memory cell device of this example includes a memory cell array including a plurality of memory cells each including variable resistance memory cell element MC. Although not shown each memory cell may further include a switching element such as a diode or transistor. The memory cell device further includes a plurality of bit lines BL BL and word lines WL WL and the memory cells are connected at intersections thereof.

Reference number of denotes a row decoder and reference numeral denotes a column decoder. The column decoder includes a plurality of bit line selection transistors BST BST connected between a node N and the respective bit lines BL BL. The row decoder includes a plurality of word line selection transistors WST WST connected between a reference voltage e.g. ground GND and the respective word lines WL WL. The bit line selection transistors BST BST are respectively controlled by gated to bit line selection signals BLS BLS and the word line selection transistors WST WST are respectively controlled by gate to word line selection signals WLS WLS. The bit line selection signals BLS BLS may for example correspond to column addresses and the word line selection signals WLS WLS may for example correspond to row addresses.

The variable resistance memory cell device of further includes a compliance transistor CLTR a delay circuit and a by pass transistor BPTR .

The compliance transistor is connected between node N and a terminal receiving a program pulse PGM Pulse. The by pass transistor is connected between the reference voltage e.g. ground GND and node N and the delay circuit has an input receiving the program pulse PGM pulse and an output gated to the by pass transistor .

An operation of the variable resistance memory cell device of will now be described with respect to SET programming of the memory cell of the memory cell array .

Initially word line WL and bit line BL are selected by the row decoder and column decoder i.e. by turning ON the selection transistors WST and BST in response to the word and bit line selection signals WLS and BLS. In addition the compliance transistor is turned ON in response to a compliance signal Vcomp. Then a SET programming pulse PGM Pulse is applied to the compliance transistor and the input of the delay circuit . As a result the resistance of the variable resistive element MC of the memory cell abruptly decreases as described previously in connection with and the memory cell is transitioned to the SET state. In the meantime the delay circuit delays the SET programming pulse PGM Pulse to generate a delayed pulse Vpass see described above . After the memory cell has changed to the SET state the delayed pulse Vpass turns ON the by pass transistor . As a result the programming current on the bit line BL resulting from the programming pulse PGM Pulse is diverted to ground thus electrically bypassing the memory cell MC .

The variable resistance memory cell device of the example of includes a variable resistance memory cell a voltage sensor and a by pass transistor BPTR . The by pass transistor is connected across the memory cell at nodes N and N and is on off controlled in response to a by pass signal Vpass generated by the voltage sensor . Also shown is a compliance transistor CLTR which is on off controlled by a compliance signal Vcomp. As explained below the voltage sensor is configured to sense a voltage drop a node N i.e. across the memory cell and to respond to the voltage drop by turning ON the by pass transistor .

In a SET programming operation the compliance transistor CLTR is turned ON in response the compliance signal Vcomp and a Set Pulse is applied to the memory cell via the compliance transistor CLTR. At this time the memory cell is in the high resistance RESET state. Thus a relatively small cell current Icell initially flows through the memory cell and a relative high voltage is present a node N. Then as described above in connection with the memory cell transitions to the SET state i.e. the resistance of the memory cell abruptly decreases and the cell current Icell abruptly increases. As a result the voltage at node N drops. The voltage sensor senses the voltage drop at node N and in response generates a signal Vpass capable of turning ON the by pass transistor . As a result the cell current Icell abruptly drops as a by pass path is established through the by pass transistor . Preferably the ON resistance of the by pass transistor is substantially 10 times or more the SET resistance of the memory cell .

The variable resistance memory cell device of the example of includes a variable resistance memory cell an inverter and a by pass transistor BPTR . The by pass transistor is connected across the memory cell at nodes N and N and is on off controlled in response to a by pass signal Vpass generated by the inverter . Also shown is a compliance transistor CLTR which is on off controlled by a compliance signal Vcomp. As explained below the inverter is configured to sense a voltage drop a node N i.e. across the memory cell and to respond to the voltage drop by turning ON the by pass transistor . In this particular example the inverter outputs a LOW logic signal when the voltage at node N is above a threshold i.e. relatively HIGH and a HIGH logic signal when the voltage at node N is below a threshold i.e. relative LOW . In addition in this example a power terminal of the inverter is connected to receive a programming SET pulse signal Set Pulse.

In a SET programming operation the compliance transistor CLTR is turned ON in response the compliance signal Vcomp and a Set Pulse is applied to the memory cell via the compliance transistor CLTR. At this time the memory cell is in the high resistance RESET state. Thus a relatively small cell current Icell initially flows through the memory cell and a relative high voltage is present a node N. Thus the inverter which has been activated by the Set Pulse outputs a logic LOW signal and the by pass transistor is OFF.

Then as described above in connection with the memory cell transitions to the SET state i.e. the resistance of the memory cell abruptly decreases and the cell current Icell abruptly increases. As a result the voltage at node N drops to a LOW level the Vpass output of the inverter goes to HIGH and the by pass transistor is turned ON. The cell current Icell abruptly drops as a by pass path is established through the by pass transistor . Preferably the ON resistance of the by pass transistor is substantially 10 times or more the SET resistance of the memory cell .

As shown in the variable resistance memory cell device of this example includes a memory cell array including a plurality of memory cells each including variable resistance memory cell element MC. Although not shown each memory cell may further include a switching element such as a diode or transistor. The memory cell device further includes a plurality of bit lines BL BL and word lines WL WL and the memory cells are connected at intersections thereof.

Reference number of denotes a column decoder and reference numeral denotes a row decoder. The column decoder includes a plurality of bit line selection transistors BST BST connected between a node N and the respective bit lines BL BL. The row decoder includes a plurality of word line selection transistors WST WST connected between a reference voltage e.g. ground GND and the respective word lines WL WL. The bit line selection transistors BST BST are respectively controlled by gated to first bit line selection signals BLS BLS and the word line selection transistors WST WST are respectively controlled by gate to word line selection signals WLS WLS. The first bit line selection signals BLS BLS may for example correspond to column addresses and the word line selection signals WLS WLS may for example correspond to row addresses.

The variable resistance memory cell device of further includes a compliance circuit a voltage sensor and a by pass transistor BPTR .

The compliance circuit includes a plurality of compliance transistors CLTR CLTR connected between a node N and the respective bit lines BL BL. The compliance circuit functions analogously to the column decoder in that the compliance transistors CLTR CLTR are controlled by second bit line selection signals BLS BLS which correspond to the first bit line selection signals BLS BLS. However each compliance transistor CLTR CLTR and or second bit line selections signal BLS BLS is configured to establish a given current limiting resistive element for the variable resistive memory cells connected to each bit line BL BL. The first bit line selection signal BLS BLS may be the same the second bit line selection signal BLS BLS or the first bit line selection signal BLS BLS may be separately generated from the second bit line selection signal BLS BLS .

The voltage sensor and by pass transistor of generally correspond to the voltage sensor and by pass transistor shown in previously described . The voltage sensor may for example be configured with the inverter of . However the internal configuration of the voltage sensor is not limited. The by pass transistor is controlled by gate to an output of the voltage sensor and is connected between the node N and a reference potential e.g. ground GND . The voltage sensor is configured to sense a voltage drop at node N and to control the by pass transistor accordingly.

An operation of the variable resistance memory cell device of will now be described with respect to SET programming of the memory cell of the memory cell array .

Initially word line WL and bit line BL are selected by the row decoder and column decoder i.e. by turning ON the selection transistors WST and BST in response to the word and bit line selection signals WLS and BLS. In addition the compliance transistor CLTR is turned ON within the compliance circuit in response to the second bit line selection signal BLS . Then a SET programming pulse PGM Pulse is applied to node N. As a result the resistance of the variable resistive element MC of the memory cell abruptly decreases as described previously in connection with and the memory cell is transitioned to the SET state. The decreased resistance of the memory cell causes a voltage drop at node N which is sense by the voltage sensor . The voltage sensor responds to the voltage drop by generating the signal Vpass to turn ON the by pass transistor . As a result the programming current on the bit line BL resulting from the programming pulse PGM Pulse is diverted to ground thus bypassing the memory cell MC .

As shown in the variable resistance memory cell device of this example includes a memory cell array including a plurality of memory cells each including variable resistance memory cell element MC. Although not shown each memory cell may further include a switching element such as a diode or transistor. The memory cell device further includes a plurality of bit lines BL BL and word lines WL WL and the memory cells are connected at intersections thereof.

Reference number of denotes a row decoder and reference numeral denotes a column decoder. The column decoder includes a plurality of bit line selection transistors BST BST connected between a node N and the respective bit lines BL BL. The row decoder includes a plurality of word line selection transistors WST WST connected between a reference voltage e.g. ground GND and the respective word lines WL WL. The bit line selection transistors BST BST are respectively controlled by gated to bit line selection signals BLS BLS and the word line selection transistors WST WST are respectively controlled by gate to word line selection signals WLS WLS. The bit line selection signals BLS BLS may for example correspond to column addresses and the word line selection signals WLS WLS may for example correspond to row addresses.

The variable resistance memory cell device of further includes a compliance transistor CLTR a voltage sensor and a by pass transistor BPTR .

The compliance transistor is connected between node N and a terminal receiving a program pulse PGM Pulse. The by pass transistor is connected between the reference voltage e.g. ground GND and node N and the voltage sensor has an input connected to node N and an output gated to the by pass transistor .

An operation of the variable resistance memory cell device of will now be described with respect to SET programming of the memory cell of the memory cell array .

Initially word line WL and bit line BL are selected by the row decoder and column decoder i.e. by turning ON the selection transistors WST and BST in response to the word and bit line selection signals WLS and BLS. In addition the compliance transistor is turned ON in response to a compliance signal Vcomp. Then a SET programming pulse PGM Pulse is applied to the compliance transistor and the input of the delay circuit . As a result the resistance of the variable resistive element MC of the memory cell abruptly decreases as described previously in connection with and the memory cell is transitioned to the SET state. The decreased resistance of the memory cell causes the voltage a node N to drop and this voltage drop is sense by the voltage sensor which responds by generating the signal Vpass to turn ON the by pass transistor . As a result the programming current on the bit line BL resulting from the programming pulse PGM Pulse is diverted to ground thus electrically bypassing the memory cell MC .

The ReRAM may be configured by an MMC card Multimedia Card an SD card Secure Digital Card a micro SD card a memory stick an ID card a PCMCIA card a chip card a USB card a smart card a CF card Compact Flash Card and so on.

The nonvolatile ReRAM can retain its stored data even when its power supply is interrupted. With the increase in use of mobile devices such as cellular phones PDAs digital cameras portable game consoles and MP3 players the nonvolatile memory is being widely used as code storage as well as data storage. In addition the nonvolatile ReRAM may be used in home applications such as HDTV DVD router and GPS.

The ReRAM may be applied to an embedded system which is a computing system embedded as a part of other components to perform only a specific computing work imposed on a device including oneself unlike a typical computer. The embedded system has a central processing unit CPU and needs an operating system OS . The embedded system executes an application under the OS to perform a specific work. Generally the embedded system is provided to control military devices industrial devices communication devices electric home appliances such as a set top box digital television set DTV and digital camera and so on.

The ReRAM memory device of the inventive concepts may be mounted by using various types of packages. For example the nonvolatile memory device may be mounted by using the packages such as a package on package PoP Ball grid arrays BGAs Chip Scale Packages CSPs Die in Waffle Pack Die in Wafer Form Chip On Board COB Ceramic Dual In Line Package CERDIP Plastic Metric Quad Flat Pack MQFP Thin Quad Flatpack TQFP Small Outline SOIC Shrink Small Outline Package SSOP Thin Small Outline Package TSOP Thin Quad Flatpack TQFP System In Package SIP Multi Chip Package MCP Wafer level Fabricated Package WFP and Wafer level Processed Stack Package WSP .

Exemplary embodiments have been disclosed herein and although specific terms are employed they are used and are to be interpreted in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purpose of limitation. Accordingly it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form and details may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

