---

title: Systems and methods for optimizing smart mail
abstract: Methods and systems provide for creating and generating dynamic mailings which include providing for static and dynamic content to be included in a dynamically generated e-mail; establishing filters for determining dynamic content; establishing a generic e-mail including static and dynamic content; selecting dynamic content using the filters; generating a dynamic e-mail based upon the generic e-mail and the dynamic content selected; and transmitting the dynamically generated e-mail.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08224914&OS=08224914&RS=08224914
owner: ZDirect, Inc.
number: 08224914
owner_city: Hallandale Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101223
---
This application is a Divisional of application Ser. No. 12 405 081 filed on Mar. 16 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 882 190 which is a Divisional of application Ser. No. 11 034 781 filed on Jan. 14 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 523 167 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 536 712 filed on Jan. 16 2004 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and for which priority is claimed under 35 U.S.C. 120 and 35 U.S.C. 119 e respectively.

The present invention relates generally to network applications and more specifically to systems and methods for optimizing smart or dynamic mailings.

With the increase of commerce over the Internet consumers are being bombarded with advertisements and mailings that include blanket promotions that do not dynamically take into account the consumer s personal needs and interests. Current mail systems store limited information in mailing lists that may only include name address and annual income. As such when a consumer receives a promotion through a mailing the consumer is not likely to seriously consider the information in the mailing assuming the consumer opens the mailing at all. As such not all available information is taken advantage of.

Additionally when a consumer completes a questionnaire the questions included in the questionnaire are presented to all of the consumers answering the questions. Conventional questionnaires do not take into account the information provided in the answered questions in determining what questions should be asked next. For example a questionnaire may include questions like Do you play golf Do you play tennis etc. If the person answers Yes to playing golf conventional systems do not provide additional questions by trying to specify the consumer s interest in golf. As such the information that is collected regarding the consumers is not utilized to its fullest extent in sending promotional information.

Systems methods and computer readable mediums consistent with principles of some embodiments of the present invention provide for generating dynamic mailings including providing for static and dynamic content to be included in a dynamically generated mailing establishing filters for determining dynamic content establishing a generic mailing including static and dynamic content selecting dynamic content using the filters generating a dynamic mailing based upon the generic mailing and the dynamic content selected and transmitting the dynamically generated mailing.

Alternatively systems methods and computer readable mediums consistent with some embodiments of the present invention provide for providing for at least one static content and at least one dynamic content and generating at least one dynamic mailing including at least one of static and dynamic content wherein the inclusion of the at least one dynamic content is determined by applying at least one filter associated with the at least one dynamic content.

Alternatively systems methods and computer readable mediums consistent with some embodiments of the present invention provide for obtaining information for use in dynamic mailings the method including providing a user an opportunity to opt into a system upon receipt of confirmation of an opt in querying the user with at least one processed based question storing the response to the at least one question as information and storing an association between the information and the user and generating a dynamic mailing including content that is selected based on the stored information.

Alternatively systems methods and computer readable mediums consistent with some embodiments of the present invention provide for obtaining information for use in dynamic mailings the method including providing a user an opportunity to opt into a system upon receipt of confirmation of an opt in querying the user with at least one processed based question storing the response to the at least one question as information and storing an association between the information and the user and generating a dynamic mailing including content that is selected based on the stored information.

Alternatively systems methods and computer readable mediums consistent with some embodiments of the present invention provide for generating a mailing campaign including providing a set of tools allowing the user to access the tools to create a template by designating and formatting at least one area enabling the user to associate content with the at least one designated and formatted area enabling a preview mode wherein the user may preview the template and utilizing the template in a mailing campaign.

Reference will now be made in detail to the features of the principles of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Methods and systems consistent with some embodiments of the present invention provide for creating custom dynamic packages for opt in e mail recipients based upon a rules based conflict resolution system that can determine whether or not individual selects or criterion when combined are mutually exclusive or acceptable and allows for the purchase of genuinely desired combinations. The system further determines the make up of unique customized postcards or e mails by utilizing a rules based system in order to maximize the end result for the consumer potential customer . The system resolves conflicting choices or combinations by creating a system of selects or criterion. The system allows a user to create his own conflict resolution system that supercedes ones from the system engine. The system creates a ranking system where the user decides what criterion or selects are important in creating the e mail and allows for a specific value weight for each individual characteristic. The system further ensures that not everyone on a list will end up with the default e mail template .

The present invention relates generally to methods and systems for optimizing smart mail. In systems consistent with features of some of embodiments of the present invention users may create and send smart mail or dynamic mail by creating custom marketing packages to recipients or consumers who opt into a commerce system. By utilizing an HTML Hypertext Markup Language formatting tool the user may create mailings including custom static and dynamic content and using filters determine recipients of the mailings from a database including consumers who opt into the system. Upon receipt of the custom mailing the recipients or consumers may act on the marketing included in the mailing using additional tools located on a network. The user s actions performed after receipt of the mailing may be stored in the system for further use. For exemplary purposes the custom mailings may be described with respect to vacation packages. However it may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the principles consistent with some embodiments of the present invention may be implemented with any type of marketing scheme.

System environment further includes database communicably linked to server server which may act as an intermediary server between client devices and financial institution server hotel or resort server together with a communicably linked database Tlinks server and entertainment tickets provider server . Servers and may communicate with server in order to schedule those offers that are included in custom mailings. It may be appreciated that additional servers communicably liked to server may reside on network that provide services to consumers. Consumers using client devices and may access server through network . Users through server computers i.e. server may access server through network .

The dynamic content module allows the user to input content that may be utilized in creating a dynamically generated e mail. Content may be for example images or graphics text uploaded custom HTML raw HTML code HTML code using HTML editor as discussed herein etc. Content may for example include information that defines the source of the e mail. For example if the user s organization was a hotel one piece of content may include the hotel s logo. Additionally content may include text that the user may input to relay some piece of information to a consumer. For example the text may advise the consumer of some particular amenities that the hotel provides.

Content may additionally be static or dynamic. For example static content is content that is included in the generic e mail and is sent to all recipients of the e mail. Examples of static content include for example source information such as logos contact information images relating to the source of the e mail such as a picture of the hotel etc. However dynamic content may only be sent depending upon whether the recipient satisfies certain conditions or filters set by the user. For example the hotel may have a golf promotion where the consumer may pay one flat fee for the green fees clubs and cart. This promotion may only be sent to those consumers that play golf. As such this piece of content may be created as a dynamic component whereby only those consumers who have previously indicated that they enjoy golf as stored in their profile information generated by the dynamic data profiling module and identified using the filter s may receive this promotion. Both static and dynamic content are dynamic components that are used to create the generic e mail.

In addition to providing content the user may create different rates that are associated which each of the dynamic components. depicts a chart that lists each of the dynamic components and the rates that are associated with each of the dynamic components. For example content has M number of rates associated with it. A rate may be implemented as the cost that is associated with that particular piece of content. For example a three night stay at a hotel may have a rate of 300 associated with it. If this piece of content was included in the mailing then the rate would be considered in generating the total cost of the package.

Once the user provides the dynamic components and the rates the user may establish buckets that are used to fill the dynamic content of the e mail. For example as shown in bucket includes two options to fill one dynamic component in the e mail namely content and content . Additionally the user sets each bucket as either mandatory or optional. If the bucket is set as mandatory the one dynamic component must be selected for use in the e mail. If the bucket is set as optional then one dynamic component may be selected for use in the e mail but if after the filters are applied no piece of content may be applied then no piece of content may be selected for inclusion in the mailing.

Each bucket additionally includes at least one filter that is utilized in determining which dynamic component is used in the e mail. Each piece of content may be associated with a filter. In creating the filters the user may provide at least one criterion that the consumer satisfies in order to determine which dynamic component is used. For example content may include an offer for 3 days 2 nights representing a high end room. Content may include an offer for 4 days 3 nights representing an economy room. The user may create a filter which searches the consumer profiles to determine if there is a preference for high end rooms. If a consumer has a preference for a high end room then content would be included in the e mail. If the consumer does not have a preference for a high end room then content would not be inserted into the e mail.

Additionally each mandatory bucket includes an indication of a default dynamic component wherein if the consumer does not have any preference for either a high end or a low end room using the example set forth above the default dynamic component may be inserted into the e mail.

A secondary filter may be associated with each bucket whereby if two dynamic components are selected based upon the primary filter the secondary filter may be used to narrow the selection to only one dynamic component per bucket. Alternatively the primary filter may be implemented to prioritize that which is important to the user where the secondary filter may be implemented to prioritize that which is important to the consumer. The highest priority identified from the secondary filter may then be selected as the piece from content from that bucket.

In addition to the above rules may be established either by the user or by an administrator to prevent mutually exclusive pieces of content from being incorporated within the same mailing. For example rules may be established where a consumer who is being offered a trip for two nights may not be offered a three night stay at a hotel. These rules may be applied during the creation stage of the mailing or just prior to the mailing being sent. If a mailing violates any of the rules entered by the user or the administrator one of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate that the mailing may be corrected in a number of ways for example replacing the objectionable content with acceptable content removing the objectionable content etc.

As shown in bucket is set as an optional bucket. As such if the at least one primary filter does not produce a selection of any dynamic components then no dynamic components may be selected from that bucket. There may be no default association with any of the dynamic components.

It may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that although three buckets are illustrated more buckets may be implemented. The layout of the generic e mail is discussed with regard the HTML formatting tool module discussed below.

In order to dynamically generate the e mail the system matches a list of consumers with the filters included in the buckets. Depending upon which criteria included in the filters the consumers satisfy the mailing is created using the dynamic components as laid out in the HTML formatting tool module. Additionally as each dynamic component from the each bucket is selected the system totals the rates so that the total amount of the package may be noted in the e mail. Additionally an offer code may be generated that is unique to the combination of dynamic components generated. The e mail may further include an individual code identifying the particular consumer.

The e mail may further include a URL where the consumer may access additional information relating to the promotion included in the e mail. In order to make a purchase on the web page or by calling a designated number included within the postcard the consumer may be provided with an offer code. Alternatively if the purchase is done on the web no offer code may need to be inputted as the consumer as upon clicking on the link or URL the consumer may be sent to a web page with an offer corresponding to the offer code. Alternatively if the consumer calls a designated number to complete his her purchase the consumer may be required to give the offer code to the operator who will know through the offer code what package the customer was offered. Each offer code is unique for each individual package but different individuals may be supplied with the same offers and therefore the same offer code. The customer i.e. e mail recipient facsimile recipient postcard recipient etc. can call the user directly without operator or administrator intervention. Alternatively there may be an offer code and an individual code included within each postcard or e mail so that both the package and the specific individual offered that package will be able to be determined when the codes are produced for the reservation purchase system by the user.

It may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that where the disclosure discusses formatting and sending an e mail alternatively other forms of mailings may be generated i.e. a facsimile a hard copy for mailing through U.S. Postal Service etc.

Alternatively this dynamic e mail capability may be used to generate automatic RFPs Request for Proposals from a supplier that has different profile elements that can be generated dynamically to buyers requesting proposals for such requested venues. For example numerous providers i.e. large hotel chains have in database profile information relating to each of their properties. When Company A i.e. JP Morgan submits a RFP in response to the RFP the providers using some of the features discussed herein may dynamically generate a response to the RFP in the form of an e mail. This is accomplished by querying database and accessing information responding to the requirements of the RFP.

The HTML Formatting Tool module allows a user to create an entire email blast through an easy to use tool that provides to a user a page layout mode for creating any style of mailing format including images i.e. gif and jpeg format html text and entire preconceived HTML uploads and including all Zmail component operations including the modules discussed herein. The tool also includes a view page mode allowing for the precise placement of such content and a preview page mode that allows for the previewing of how the actual email will look when it is delivered. The predictive nature is to give the user an easy to use intuitive tool much like Microsoft Word is to creating letters to a novice user for the creation of HTML email messages that give them 98 of free form screen painter dealing with HTML limitations yet formatting the layout of the HTML email message automatically so that it prevents any type of conflict from being created typical for most free form tools and allows the user to design create and send the email with minimal editing challenges. The same interface for the creation of the HTML email messages is used to create all of the web pages event driven pages referral pages and sweepstakes operations that play out as additional components for use within the system platform.

Using the HTML formatting module a user may create a layout of the generic mailing. depict exemplary screen diagrams presented to a user for facilitating the generation of a content or generic e mail. As shown in the user may build the layout of the mailing from the top down. This layout may identify where the user wishes to have certain content placed in the generic mailing. The user may select from the line options . As shown in the user has selected the first line using option . Section provides the user with the line options he has selected. For example the user has the option to right center or left align section. Additionally the user may move the line up or down on the page layout. Additionally the user may delete the line. Advanced options provide the user with the ability to set additional formatting for example pixel width for each of the line options selected.

As depicted in the user has selected line option as the second line in the generic e mail. As depicted in the user has selected line option as the third line in the generic e mail. allows the user to add border content using the drop down menus. The user may additionally select colors for the background and text. Upon selection of the View page button the user is presented with the exemplary screen display depicted in . The pencils shown in the figure help the user to determine each of the dynamic components included in the generic e mail. Upon selecting the Preview page button the user may preview what the created mailing looks like upon exiting the HTML Formatter module as depicted in .

Once the user has created the page layout the user may load images and or text to fill each of the components created in the generic e mail. depicts an exemplary screen display presented to the user to identify what type of content the user wishes to insert in the areas he has established in . As can be seen in the user may select to insert a graphic custom formatted text uploaded HTML raw HTML etc. If the user selects to insert a graphic the user may be presented with an exemplary screen display as depicted in . depicts a list of the images that are stored in the system that the user may select from. The user may select from the stored list load additional images for storage at server add text to fill the components of the generic e mail etc. Additionally the user may select to type in raw HTML using the HTML editing tool an example of which is depicted in . As can be seen in the user may select the justification of the text the vertical positioning of the text the background color of the area format font size color etc. and additionally may insert links within the area. It may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the HTML editing tool may be utilized to format many different aspects of the text to be inserted known to one skilled in the art and the disclosure herein should not be construed as limiting the scope of the functionality of the tool.

A feature of the HTML formatting tool is that it allows a user to create an e mail that includes multiple parts where each part can be built using different tools. For example as depicted in the user may identify multiple areas in a mailing for different pieces of content. Each piece of content may be utilized for different purposes i.e. a sweepstakes area an offer area a refer a friend area wherein if the consumer refers a friend to opt in the user may receive additional sweepstakes entries etc. Further as depicted in each of these areas may be formatted using different tools and different types of content i.e. text graphics etc.

It may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the user may use alternate methods for editing different characteristics of content including font size color appearance etc.

The dynamic data profiling system module may be built out of an incentive sweepstakes system that is designed to earn the interest of an opt in recipient enough to answer a limited number i.e. four of quick questions. By answering these limited number of questions this allows the opt in recipient or commonly referred to recipient or the consumer herein to earn an unlimited number of entries to win the sweepstakes incentive. The dynamic data profiling system provides new questions i.e. four every time that the opt in recipient wants to re enter the sweepstakes.

The profiling system is built on the platform that the sweepstakes provider has an easy manner in which to enter free form processed based questions of any type and also creating predictive answer results that are known to the provider. However by having the opt in recipient answer that question the predictive answer result leads to the creation of a rich profile built on the recipient leading the provider to fully understand what motivates that particular customer to their service or product. The questioning system is further supported by a question hierarchy system that allows for the prioritization of such question and the predictiveness of what tract of questioning patterns to present to the opt in recipient based on answers to previously answered questions. For example the question might be asked Do you play golf If the answer is yes to the question then a tract of predefined golf questions are then subsequently asked. If the answer is no then the questioning proceeds to another branch that includes questions related to other possible interests of the recipient non golf related to further understand what that particular interests of the recipient may be for example do you like to play tennis. 

A feature of the question hierarchy implementation is an extremely easy to understand user interface that combines the concept of using binary trees with an intuitive use of all Boolean operators to create an entire circle of questioning patterns that does not lead the opt in recipient into a dead end of a certain questioning tract. The Boolean system allows for the creating a bridges or branches into other predefined questioning tracts constantly building a rich profile on the changing interests of the opt in recipient.

The dynamic data profiling system module may be the heart of the opt in commerce system whereby a consumer may view a sweepstakes opportunity on for example a web site. In order to the enter the sweepstakes the consumer must provide their name and contact information in addition to answering a limited number of questions i.e. four. The consumer has the ability to enter the sweepstakes any number of times. However each time the consumer enters the sweepstakes a limited number of new questions may be presented to the consumer. The questions that are presented to the consumer may be based on prior answers provided by the consumer. This may be accomplished through the use of database or a cookie look up. For example as the consumer enters their identifying information i.e. their name e mail address etc. the database may be queried to determine what questions if any have been previously asked to the consumer. Alternatively this information may be obtained through a cookie look up. Based on the result of the determination additional questions are presented based upon prior answers provided by the consumer. As the consumer answers each of these questions the answers are associated with that consumer and may be stored in a database. Each additional time the consumer enters the sweepstakes more new questions are presented to the consumer thereby creating a rich profile including information about the consumer. These answers may be used in determining what custom mailings and which dynamic components may be included in an e mail that may be sent to the consumer at a later time.

It may be appreciated that additional information may be obtained from different sources. For example where the consumer has completed any survey that may be associated with any users or service providers located on network the answers may be stored in database and used for determining additional custom mailings.

Additionally the consumer has the ability to submit referral information referring the sweepstakes sponsors to the referred consumer. By providing valid referred consumer i.e. valid e mail or snail mail addresses the consumer who provided the referrals may benefit by receiving additional entries to the sweepstakes i.e. 20 entries. This provides incentive for the consumers to provide valid referrals and at the same time provides the sweepstakes sponsors with additional consumers to load into their database. With each valid referral new consumers are added to the database. As each new consumer enters the sweepstakes the new consumer answers the questions posed and the answers to the questions are stored thereby creating a rich profile for the new consumers.

The questions are created by the user through application software while accessing server . Depending upon the type of organization the user represents the user may create questions that are directed to those particular services that the user s organization offers. For example if the user is a hotel then the user may provide questions that are directed to services offered by the hotel. These questions may include How often would you like to hear from us Do you play golf What time of the year do you like to travel etc. By asking how often the consumer would like to hear from the user the user may offer tempting offers without trying the consumer s patience. Additionally by providing offers that target the consumer s interests the consumer is more likely to read and consider the offer by the user. The custom mailing is an offer that the consumer would likely be interested in based upon previously cited interests.

The questions may be presented to the consumer where the consumer would provide a single or multiple answer i.e. What month do you like to visit Florida or What months do you like to visit South Carolina . This allows the system to anticipate the next round of questions based upon the answers provided by the consumer. For example if the consumer indicated that he plays golf the subsequent questions may include additional information regarding the consumer s interests in golf. If the consumer indicates that he is not interested in playing golf no additional questions regarding golf are presented to the consumer. Once the consumer indicates that he does not play golf additional questions may be presented to the consumer to ascertain what the interests of the consumer are. For example Do you play tennis Do you enjoy the theater Do you enjoy spas etc. By providing a processed based questions with predictive answer results a rich profile of the consumer may be created. This profile may be utilized to ascertain which custom mailings the consumer may receive in the future. Additionally the consumer may be presented with a question such as How often would you like to hear from us . This provides useful information in that the consumer may not be saturated with offers that he is not interested in. If the consumer indicates that he would only like to hear from server 3 times per year only 3 e mails including information relating to promotions may be sent.

The dynamic data profiling system module may further provide open ended questions to the consumer. For example if the consumer cancels a reservation this module may provide the user the ability to generate a questionnaire to be presented to the consumer that includes open ended questions. These comments may be stored at server where the user may read and consider the consumer s comments. These comments may be searchable so that the user may locate all comments for example that include the words poor service etc.

It may be appreciated that value added reseller server may assist the user in creating questions in such a manner that the consumer s interest may be acquired more efficiently by selecting which questions are presented to the consumer and when

As these questions are presented to and answered by the consumer a rich profile is created including information relating to demographic lifestyle geographic purchase information etc. The information is stored in a database and is accessed and is used to determine what offers should be presented to the consumer.

In addition to the above functionality the system allows for integration of third party data by determining how prospective consumers or recipients are identified based upon their stored preferences. The system then enables mapping or association from one classification of preferences to a newly created classification of preferences in order to more efficiently enable the application of filters. For example the user wants to create a question that asks what the preferred length of stay of a consumer is and provides three possible answers as follows 1 week 2 weeks and more than 2 weeks. However the database stores preferences for consumers in a day unit. As such a mapping may be created that accesses the prospective consumer or recipient list and maps the stored day information to one of the three possible answers. Thus a consumer who previously indicated that he like to stay 8 days would be mapped to the 2 weeks category.

Through the delivery of a mailing a system is created by which the consumer is lured back to a web site based on the ability to receive a comparable offer promoted through the original mailing and tracking the click through back to the web site from the mailing. This may be accomplished by providing a URL or link to a web site that includes additional information regarding the promotion in the mailing and or information regarding alternative promotions. The system may track all of the link click throughs on the web site building a temporary inferred profile. If the consumer does not make a purchase event through the web site visit then an additional mailing may then be dynamically generated and sent back to them displaying a similar package based on their inferred profile or click through interest with some type of additional incentive to purchase. The consumer s inferred profile may be additionally stored in database .

Thus the system consistent with principles of some embodiments of the present invention provides for additionally storing inferred profiles. These inferred profiles are generated by tracking the click throughs on the web site. For example if the consumer in accessing the web site accessed information about golf packages and spas the system may store this information in an inferred profile. If the consumer does not take advantage of the promotion in the mailing the system may generate additional marketing materials based on the inferred profile. For example the system may access promotions that are related to golf and the spa and generate a dynamic mailing offering additional packages related to golf and the spa.

The system consistent with principles of some embodiments of the present invention is designed to interface into existing third party applications through SQL procedural calls API application programming interface integration or automated batch mode file export import techniques that transfers appropriate data from the third party system into the system for further segmentation and or targeted e mail delivery based on certain events or triggers. For example a user may query the system for all consumers who booked a particular type of package last year in a consumer history file and based on when they came last year send the consumer another e mail this year 45 days before a year from their last visit and offer them the same package with an additional incentive while considering their stored dynamically profiled information.

Additionally the incentive to come back again on the same package may be based on a dynamically created incentive based on a profile interest stored in the Zmail database . The system is further supported by creating dynamically generated emails based on such events and triggers using calendar seasonality of current events offerings and or profile interests. For example a welcome e mail can be generated to the consumer 7 days before they arrive on a vacation package reconfirming their particulars and also advising the consumer of the current events happening in the area of the vacation location and or promoting certain attractions to the recipient based on the profile interests of the recipient stored in the system. For example if the consumer s profile indicates they enjoy Italian food golf and theater the e mail may promote a new golf course relationship a great Italian restaurant relationship and the a certain theater show relationship established by the initial provider. The welcome e mail may additionally include links to each of these promoted venues to place reservations provide purchase opportunities etc. Additionally the welcome e mail may promote certain activities relating to the appropriate season. For example if the consumer is vacationing during the summer the welcome e mail may include promotional information relating to water sports. However if the consumer is visiting in the winter the welcome e mail may promote snow sports.

It may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that information may be obtained from other web sites and included in the welcome e mail. For example the Chamber of Commerce of the town where the hotel is located at may include a list of current events. This information may be automatically acquired from certain web sites and stored in database . At the time the welcome e mail is generated the date period and location may be searched and whatever events are stored may be inserted into the welcome e mail to advise the consumer of the current events in the town during the time period the consumer is visiting.

The list broker management module creates an incentive opt in registration system on a web site that uses the dynamic profiling system to turn anonymous web site visitors into well profiled recipients either through further email correspondence using the profiling targeting technology or web site inferred profile. The module further builds a consumer s inferred profile based on click throughs after opt in registration to create profile reports available to the general public to access and generate list rental requests providing list broker revenue for the web site owner. The system may further be supported by the ability to offer the general public to access the tools discussed herein to build the desired email blast which may include the act of sending out a set of dynamically generated e mails sending out a fully created e mail under the web site owner s account and matching the e mail blast against a desired list rental offered by the web site owner. Additionally if the list rental prospect is a current client or user and wants to run a desired e mail blast against a list rental from a user s own web site then the list rental prospect would be able to request a certain unique access code from the web site owner that when matched against the e mail blast automatically segments the desired list rental from the web site owner s account on the server and creates a temporary push list or filter that is then matched to the list rental prospect s desired e mail blast built using their own user s account complete with all components discussed herein such as incentive opt in data profiling interest and incentive level viral referrals refer a friend etc. to receive the extra added benefits of the system.

For example a local television station may maintain a list of consumers that have opted into receiving dynamically generated emails or single filter e mails through a sweepstakes as discussed above. The television station may learn that a local car dealership may have a promotion for discounts on new cars. The television station may in conjunction with the local car dealer look to promote a certain marketing event at the car dealership. The television station may as a list broker dynamically generate e mails and using the television station s consumer list send out the dynamically generated e mail to their consumer list including the promotion from the local car dealer. In this instance although the e mail is being sent from the television station the content of the e mail promotes an event at the local car dealership. The e mail may include a link to the car dealership that includes information regarding the marketing event. This e mail may include filters that only send the e mail to consumers who satisfy certain requirements using filters i.e. consumers who have shown interest within the past 3 months.

The efficiency of delivery module assists in creating e mails that may not be blocked by spam filters. Once a dynamic e mail is generated the e mail is sent through a simulated spam filter i.e. SPAM Assassin where the e mail is evaluated to determine if the e mail would be blocked from being sent. Once the e mail is evaluated a report is generated that indicates any content in the e mail that may prevent the e mail from be successfully sent. Additionally the efficiency of delivery module provides an overall score of the e mail. If the score is more than a predetermined amount the system indicates to the user that the e mail would likely be blocked. Using the information in the report the user may change the text in the e mail and resubmit the e mail to the simulated spam filter to determine if the corrected e mail would likely be blocked.

Alternatively the e mail may be modified automatically depending upon the type of correction. For example if the system determines that the e mail needs to be modified the system may utilize the information included in the report to attempt to reduce the e mail s score. For example if system determines there is red font the system may automatically change the font to green thus reducing the score. Additionally the system may automatically change objectionable text in the e mail to acceptable text. The system may then automatically re submit the e mail to the spam filter where processing returns to Step .

Additionally the efficiency of delivery module reviews and tests the e mail to provide for efficiency of delivery. For example the efficiency of delivery module tests the links included in the e mail to ensure they are valid links. If the links are not valid an error message will be presented to the user. The efficiency of delivery module may further test to see if there is any obscene information in the e mail and provide an error message to the user the user s supervisor or both.

Additionally the efficiency of delivery module may provide for multiple log ins for users in order to ensure that only certain users have the ability to send out the dynamically generated e mails. For example lower level users may only have the ability to create dynamic components filters etc. while the lower level users may not be able to actually send out the e mail. This prevents the situation where inappropriate e mails are being out Should an inappropriate e mail be sent this may create a situation where the opt in customers interest is tainted by receiving an inappropriate e mail. By providing for multiple level log ins users may only access those features of the system to which they have permission.

Additionally the system evaluates all e mails that are sent in an effort to ensure that a proper e mail is being sent. For example immediately prior to sending an e mail the e mail may be processed through an internal spam filter i.e. similar to the filter discussed above in an attempt to identify inappropriate content. The system may further include predetermined thresholds. The inappropriate content identified during the processing through the spam filter may be compared with the predetermined thresholds in order to determine if the e mail may be sent. If the content exceeds the predetermined thresholds the e mail may not be sent.

The load balancer module operates by automatically generating regular or dynamic content e mails which are automatically created and delivered based on the interface into an existing third party application that achieves a certain amount of desired revenue production based on the capacity to support the availably of such product service or inventory component.

Where the user s organization is a hotel the load balancer module may store information regarding the bookings per number of e mails sent. For example the system may store statistical information that for example in previous mailings based upon 10 000 e mails sent the hotel booked 20 of their rooms. This information may be utilized in ensuring optimal bookings. For example upon reviewing the vacancy for the month of February the user may note there is a 20 vacancy where only a 10 vacancy is desired. By accessing the load balancer module the user may indicate a deficiency of 10 . Based upon the previously stored information and a previously stored generic e mail the load balancer may send out either automatically or based on user assistance a sufficient number of e mails to attract consumers to fill the 10 deficiency. Alternatively the system may conduct a random sampling using filters to attempt to fill the deficiency. If the whole deficiency is not filled or the system may identifies a need for more bookings then using additional filters another random sampling may be sent excluding those from the first email blast.

The user may configure the system i.e. to request a certain percentage occupancy rate depending upon the season i.e. 80 occupancy during their busiest season and 60 during their slowest season. Periodically the load balancer module may query the user s database i.e. database to determine what the current vacancy rate is an adjust the dynamic e mails being sent in an effort to attain the user s designated occupancy rate. This may be accomplished by varying the occupancy rate to approach and equal the designated occupancy rate as the designated season approaches. This may further be accomplished by interfacing into existing third party applications through SQL procedural calls API application programming interface integration or automated batch mode file export import techniques and query the appropriate data from the third party system for use in the ZMail system

The on line booking wizard module facilitates the actual multiple bookings once a customer has accepted a promotion included in a mailing. For example the consumer has received a mailing that promotes a hotel rate for a particular time period a round of golf for a particular time period and theater tickets for a particular show at a particular time. Using the on line booking wizard module the consumer may schedule each of these events at server in one session. For example upon accessing server the consumer may provide a promotion code that is unique to the promotion included in the mailing. Upon accessing the on line booking wizard module the consumer may be prompted to enter information as to whether the consumer accepts the hotel promotion for the given dates and rates. If the consumer accepts the promotion server may access hotel server and book a reservation in accordance with the terms in the promotion.

Further the consumer may accept the golf promotion. Upon acceptance server may access Tlinks server and schedule the golf round in accordance with the terms included in the promotion. Finally upon acceptance of the theater promotion server may access ticketmaster server and purchase theater tickets in accordance with the terms of the promotion included in the mailing. The consumer may additionally be required to provide billing information whereby bank server may be accessed to facilitate the booking of the promotion.

It may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill that the on line booking wizard module may allow the consumer to book alternative times shows etc. depending upon the consumer s wishes. For example the consumer may not be interested in golf at 8 30 a.m. However the on line booking wizard may facilitate the booking of golf at 9 30 a.m.

In addition to the features discussed above the dynamic e mails that are created may further be sent to other users for modification and resending. Where a particular marketing promotion is being offered the first user may direct the e mail to a group of second users. The group of second users may revise the e mail and forward the e mail to consumers. For example a hotel has a particular marketing promotion and sends the promotion to a group of travel agents. The hotel as the first user may generate a dynamic or a single filter e mail and send the e mail to the group of second users a group of travel agents. The travel agents may then revise the e mail using the HTML formatting tool discussed herein. For example the second user may add source information promoting the second user s travel agency. Alternatively the second user may additional add further promotions and or incentives to the e mail. Once the modification process is completed the user may establish the modified e mail as the generic e mail create filters as discussed above and send the e mail to consumers. Alternatively the second user may merely forward the e mail to consumers without modifying any of the dynamic components in the e mail.

In addition to the features discussed above the system has the ability to generate reports utilizing the data included in database . depict exemplary reports provided to a user based upon information stored in the system. A depicts an exemplary report that identifies the number of YTD e mailers within the past three months the total number of registrations the number of distinct people to register and the new e mails received through the sweeps. depicts and exemplary report that lists the questions that were provided by the user using the dynamic data profiling system module and the answers that were provided by consumers. depicts a report that summarizes the consumers stored in the system by categorizing them into A lists B lists and C lists. For example if a consumer has answered 4 questions and they were a previous guest he may be categorized within the A list. If a consumer has answered 4 questions but that customer was not a previous guest then he may be categorized within the B list. If the only information about the consumer within the system is an e mail address then the consumer may be categorized within the C list. As the consumer operates within the system and as the profile of the consumer builds he may move from the C list to the B list.

By generating this report the results provide valuable information to a user as the user can identify which consumers are more likely to accept certain offers. This may direct a user s advertising and may reduce the amount a user spends on advertising. This may also be done by determining how many A list consumers have opened and clicked through e mails i.e. acted on link in e mail. This report may additionally be utilized as a trending report where the user may see how the list quality is growing.

It may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the categories may be identified using different criteria. For example an A category may be established whereby any consumer that has opened an e mail and clicked through the links may fall within this category.

In addition the modules discussed therein systems and methods consistent with the principles of the present invention provide for an 11hour tee time module. Consumers utilizing the 11hour tee time module may schedule tee times at various locations throughout the United States at one location on the network. depicts an exemplary system environment for implementing the features consistent with some embodiments of the present invention. As shown in servers and reside on network and represent for example Hotels.com expedia.com Hyatt.com respectively. These servers may access Zdirect server through network .

Consumers through client device may access servers and through network . Upon access to server for example the consumer may look to book a hotel through the website offered at Hotels.com. Upon completion of the booking the consumer may view an icon identifying 11hour tee times. Upon selecting the icon the consumer may then through a hyperlink be directed to server where through an interface provided at server the consumer may view available tee times real time at various golf courses located for example near the hotel the consumer has just booked at Hotels.com. As the consumer is inquiring about tee times at server server accesses server with the appropriate queries. Tlinks server has access to other servers on network that provide information regarding availability at golf courses throughout the United States. As such the consumer may schedule tee times at server where server scheduled the tee times through server .

It may be appreciated that upon the scheduling of the tee times the consumer may be required to enter billing information where server may access the consumer s financial institution to confirm payment.

It may further be appreciated that as each consumer schedules a tee time at server through the hyperlink provided at servers etc. a commission may be paid to the host of servers etc. as the consumer was directed to the 11hour tee time site based upon the referral at servers etc.

It may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the features discussed herein are directed to a horizontal application which may be applied against any vertical market.

Features consistent with principles of some embodiments of the present invention further provide for the Resource Optimizing Smart Mail Commerce System a way to create custom packages for individuals within lists. A completely opt in system the system is a Content Tool designed to send and receive mail via e mail postcards or other channels methods of delivery . It maximizes information i.e. content demographics etc. by creating dynamic individually generated e mails or postcards based upon selects or criterion and rules to verify the compatibility of various combined criteria and various channels of delivery may be utilized to send the individually generated information to the recipient. A push send list is thus created from customer information based upon rules and characteristics. The system is designed to determine whether or not selects or criterion can be combined or are mutually exclusive. The ability to determine exclusivity and to resolve conflicts is a characteristic of the system which creates designated individualized packages with regard to e mail it may in the form of an HTML and text e mail for opt in consumers whose demographics information are already known.

The system uses a dynamic commerce system that allows for easy variance of the criterion and rules. Individuals who receive e mails or postcards created via the System may not see alternatives in the postcard or e mail itself. In other words the e mail or postcard may come as an already designated package targeted to the person as a package with all things the person would want to do which may not be manipulated or altered by the consumer. Rather as discussed above if the channel of delivery is via e mail the recipient of the e mail upon clicking on the e mail itself will be sent to a given URL or web page where he she can make a purchase and possibly see alternatives to the designated package which was constructed for him her. If the channel of delivery is a postcard or mailed package the consumer can either go to the URL address given on the postcard and proceed accordingly or can call a specified number included within the postcard itself to make a reservation and purchase.

1. Bob s Vacation World owns a resort condo complex some golf courses and several restaurants in the Orlando area. Bob calls Zmail to ask for assistance in sending out vacation package information to vacationers who have previously stayed at Bob s Vacation World. Bob sends his list of previous vacationers along with various demographic and specific information about them to Zmail. This list is used to create selects or criterion and a logical rule based system in the form of an interface. These are the Bob s Vacation World rules which along with a series of default rules provided by the administrator if Bob s Vacation World s rules do not apply or the demographic specific information is not available determine the content of the e mail or postcard. The system will allow a Golf and Gourge package to go out to those who have expressed an interest in golf and an interest in buffet style eateries. Individuals on the list who have indicated such interests will receive an e mail or postcard created just for them they will be given a package consisting of nothing but golf food and accommodations. Individuals who have expressed no specific interest in golf and buffet style restaurants might receive the default Disneyland package which may consist of a combination of lodging eating and entry to Disneyworld.

2. A restaurant provides a discounted 5 course meal to would be patrons. To some of their potential customers the restaurant provides a package deal of steak potato dessert etc. and to other potential patrons who are vegetarians a vegetarian ensemble of foods.

3. An Electronics Boutique offers discounts to would be customers if they buy sets or packages of electronic devices at the same time.

The System is also designed to prevent the generation of contradictory postcards or e mails or illogical combinations by implementing rules. Certain combinations of variables will not be allowed by the system if they are illogical present time conflicts i.e. someone is staying for one day at a resort it would not make sense to send that person an offer to visit two theme parks or are inconsistent.

The user may also create a set of questions to be presented to potential consumers who choose to opt into the system. The user may configure the questions in a manner described with regard to the dynamic data profiling module discussed above.

In establishing the information to be included in the e mail the user entered information into buckets Step . The information to be included in the buckets includes at least one content designation static and or dynamic and filters that are used to select which content should be selected from the bucket. The buckets are additionally identified as mandatory and optional. If the bucket is mandatory then one piece of content must be selected for including in the mailing. If the bucket is optional then if after applying the filters there is no appropriate content to select no content may be selected from the optional bucket for including in the mailing. Typically only one piece of content may be selected from each bucket.

In addition to the above information the user may associate at least one rate with each piece of content. This rate represents how much value is associated with each piece of content. In establishing the information with each bucket the user selects a rate to be associated with each piece of content that is included in the bucket. As the dynamic mailing is generated and the content is selected from each bucket a total value for the mailing is generated by adding each value associated with each piece of selected content.

By using the HTML formatting tool discussed above the user may generate a generic e mail template Step . During this process the user identifies areas in the mailing that correspond to the content that is to be selected from each of the buckets. The user may also use the HTML formatting tool to add and format the content text border content etc.

The user may then identify a list of prospective recipients or consumers Step . This list may be stored in database . The list of prospective recipients includes preferences associated with each of the prospective recipients. The filters are then applied to the identified list where the content identified in the buckets is selected based upon the preferences stored in the database Step . A mailing blast is then generated Step which establishes a set of mailings to be sent. The mailings may then be transmitted Step .

Optionally prior to transmitting the mailings the template or the completed mailing may be processed through the efficiency of delivery module to determine the likelihood of success of a successful transmission to see if any spam software is likely to block the mailing transmission.

Modifications and adaptations of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

