---

title: Multidimensional tags
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for generating multidimensional tags to analyze tagged contents are described herein. One or more predetermined tag dimensions and one or more predetermined measures associated with web content are recorded when at least one tag core is defined. The predetermined tag dimensions provide quantitative metrics describing how the tagged content has evolved. For example, time at which tagged content is consumed, user groups consuming the tagged content, and the like. The predetermined measures provide quantitative metrics describing how the tagged content is consumed such as through browsing, downloading, and the like. The tag core, the recorded predetermined tag dimensions and the recorded predetermined measures are assembled to generate a multidimensional tag. Further, the multidimensional tag is updated by recording latest one or more tag predetermined dimensions and one or more predetermined measures when the web content associated with the multidimensional tag is consumed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08793285&OS=08793285&RS=08793285
owner: Business Objects Software Ltd.
number: 08793285
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100920
---
Embodiments generally relate to computer systems and more particularly to methods and systems for generating multidimensional tags to analyze tagged contents.

The expansion of Internet and World Wide Web commonly known as web has given users the enhanced ability to read listen and watch different forms of web content. However due to significant increase in the amount of web content retrieving relevant web content has become a challenge. Therefore the concept of tagging has been introduced to classify and search relevant web content. Tagging refers to a process of assigning a tag to the web content. The tag is a keyword or term assigned to the web content by a user and or a web content owner. Usage of tags allows users to classify web contents they use and later systems use the tags to search relevant web content which interests other users. In other words tags are widely reorganized as keywords used to describe the web content.

Currently there are different methods used to define tags. One of the methods includes defining the tag by the user when the web content is consumed using the user s own vocabulary. In another method the tag is defined by the web content owner by drawing words from a controlled vocabulary. In yet another method the tag defined by the web content owner gives an option to the user to re tag the tag. However the methods described above have one or more of the following drawbacks during analysis of the relevant web content. First as the tag defined by the user lacks control over terminology there are chances of meta noise. Second even though the tag defined by the web content owner includes well understood terms the tag may become obsolete over time. Also the tag defined by the web content owner and later re tagged by the user may combine the strengths from the above mentioned methods while also inheriting the drawbacks. Therefore search results as retrieved by the system through analyzing the tags and as defined by the above mentioned methods may not be precise.

Further the web content often evolves independently of the tag that is associated with it. Therefore information describing how the tagged content changes is not known. Also the current system falls short by failing to identify popular tags from which the web content is consumed the most. Therefore obliterating ineffective tags unused tags or meta noise associated with the web content is not achieved.

In general though tagging is considered as the prevailing tool for personalizing classifying and searching heterogeneous web content systems often find it hard to analyze tags and the associated web content for various analytic purposes. Therefore analyzing the tagged content i.e. how the web content evolved and has been consumed along with the change in associated tags would be desirable to the systems to classify and identify the relevant web content.

Various embodiments of systems and methods for generating multidimensional tags to analyze tagged contents are described herein. One or more predetermined tag dimensions and one or more predetermined measures associated with web content are recorded when at least one tag core is defined. The predetermined tag dimensions provide quantitative metrics describing how the tagged content has evolved. For example time at which tagged content is consumed user groups consuming the tagged content location at which the tagged content is consumed and the like. The predetermined measures provide quantitative metrics describing how the tagged content is consumed such as through browsing downloading and the like. The tag core the recorded tag dimensions and the recorded measures are assembled to generate a multidimensional tag. Further the multidimensional tag is updated by recording latest one or more predetermined tag dimensions and one or more predetermined measures when the web content associated with the multidimensional tag is consumed. Hence by analyzing the multidimensional tag the web content associated with the multidimensional tag can be analyzed i.e. how the web content has evolved and been consumed along with the change in associated tag core.

These and other benefits and features of embodiments of the invention will be apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments thereof presented in connection with the following drawings.

Embodiments of techniques for methods and systems for generating multidimensional tags to analyze tagged contents are described herein. A tag includes a tag core i.e. a semantic label for identifying web content. Web content includes any information that is published or distributed in a digital form such as or a combination of a text an audio a video an image a software application e.g. games time zone converters etc. and the like. Tagged content includes the web content defined by the tag core. According to one embodiment a multidimensional tag consists of two composite parts the tag core and one or more predetermined tag dimensions. The predetermined tag dimensions provide quantitative metrics describing how the tagged content has evolved. One or more parameters of the predetermined tag dimensions include time location user group age groups and the like. For example time at which tagged content is consumed user groups consuming the tagged content location at which the tagged content is consumed and the like are recorded through the one or more predetermined tag dimensions.

The tag dimensions are further associated with corresponding predetermined measures to provide quantitative metrics describing how the tagged contents are consumed. One or more parameters of the predetermined measures include traffic e.g. number of browsing hits number of downloads and the like sharing e.g. to whom the tagged content is shared and the like changing e.g. updating deleting and the like and the like. Further the measures and the associated tag dimensions are stored in a tag fact table. The tag fact table helps in providing valuable analytic scopes for a system to discover the potential insights of the tagged content easily. For example analytic scopes include number of downloads measure performed at a particular time tag dimension number of browsing hits measure occurred at a particular location tag dimension and the like with respect to the associated tag core.

In one embodiment the predetermined tag dimensions and the predetermined measures are recorded when the tag core is defined. The multidimensional tag is generated by assembling the tag core with the recorded predetermined tag dimensions and the predetermined measures. Further the multidimensional tag is updated by recording latest predetermined tag dimensions and measures when the web content associated with the multidimensional tag is consumed. Furthermore the multidimensional tag is analyzed to provide relevant search results in which the user is interested in. In general multidimensional tag provides a standard structured way of monitoring and analyzing the tagged contents from which the system can easily identify the most relevant and popular tag which helps to organize classify and search heterogeneous web contents. The multidimensional tags intend to enhance usage of tags by determining how the tagged content associated with the tag core is evolved and consumed.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In one embodiment the evolution of the web content associated with the tag core is recorded by the predetermined tag dimensions. For example the time at which the tagged content is consumed location at which the tagged content is consumed and the like are recorded by the predetermined tag dimensions. The tag dimensions can include predetermined parameters such as time location user group age groups format and the like to capture the evolution of the web content associated with the tag core. In one embodiment hierarchies can be introduced to describe the tag dimensions. For example location includes geography country and region at different levels to capture the location where the tag is defined changed and consumed i.e. to understand how the tagged content is accessed geographically. Time includes year month week and date at different levels to describe when the tag is defined changed and consumed. User groups or culture groups capture how the web content is consumed based on social differences. Format captures most popular format in which the web content is consumed. Similarly domain captures the domain such as finance marketing accounting and the like to identify business scopes of the web content.

In one embodiment the consumption of the web content associated with the tag core is recorded by the predetermined measures. In other words the predetermined measures record the state of the tagged content. For example the measures provide how the web content is consumed by the users through measurements such as browsing downloading streaming and the like. The predetermined measures can include traffic to monitor any actions occurring to the web content such as number of browsing hits number of downloads and the like sharing to monitor sharing activities occurring to the web content such as to whom the web content is shared what permission is given and the like and changing to monitor changes to the web content such as updating deleting tagging and the like. In one embodiment the parameters of the tag dimensions and the measures are predetermined based on a plurality of analytic objectives such as to analyze number of downloads measures from a location tag dimension number of browsing hits measures at a time tag dimension and the like depending on user s interest.

At step the at least one multidimensional tag is generated by assembling the at least one tag core with the corresponding recorded one or more predetermined tag dimensions and the one or more predetermined measures. The framework of the multidimensional tag is described in greater detail in . Also the multidimensional tags can be generated for previously created tags when the web content associated with the tags is consumed by recording corresponding predetermined tag dimensions and the predetermined measures. In one embodiment the measures and the associated tag dimensions are stored in a predetermined structured format in a tag fact table which makes analyzing the content of the multidimensional tags easier. The tag fact table is described in greater detail in .

In one embodiment when the tag core e.g. J2EE is defined the time at which the web content is consumed time A location at which the web content is consumed location B and who is consuming the web content user group C are recorded. Further number of browsing hits B at a particular time time A number of downloads C by a user group user group C and the like are recorded. In general the predetermined tag dimensions along with the predetermined measures include parameters of metrics describing evolution and consumption of the tagged content associated with the tag core J2EE . In one embodiment assembling of the tag core J2EE with the recorded predetermined tag dimensions and the recorded predetermined measures forms the multidimensional tag . Further the multidimensional tag is updated when the web content is consumed using the tag core J2EE and is described in greater detail in . In one embodiment the tag dimensions and the measures can always be configured to attach to the multidimensional tag whenever desired.

At step the at least one search query is responded to with the web content associated with the identified multidimensional tag. The web content is presented to the users by displaying meta tag of the web content and is described in greater detail in . The meta tag is an index of the web content which includes Hyper Text Markup Language HTML or Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML elements used to provide structured metadata about the web content.

At step latest one or more predetermined tag dimensions and one or more predetermined measures associated with the web content of the identified multidimensional tag are recorded. Furthermore the multidimensional tag is updated with the latest recorded predetermined tag dimensions and the predetermined measures in step . For example considering the multidimensional tag of as an example whenever the tagged web content is consumed by the user through the tag J2EE the tag dimensions time A location B and user groups C gets updated. Further the measure traffic A also gets updated by the information regarding consumption of the web content.

In operation the measure trigger triggers the measure collector to record one or more predetermined measures . Further the measurement provider quantifies characteristics related to change in the web content as recorded by the measure collector . For example the measure trigger triggers whenever the web content is consumed the web content becomes either expired or deleted the web content is updated and the like. In other words the measure trigger triggers when the state of the web content is changed and or consumed such as browsing downloading updating and the like. The recorded measures are stored in a predetermined structured format in a tag fact table which is described in greater detail in .

In another embodiment the tag fact table can be built using the traditional data warehouse extract transform and load ETL approach. The metrics of the measures can be collected from various sources such as auditing log data transaction tables etc. In one embodiment building tag fact tables captures not only changes of tagged content but also records how tags are evolving together with the tagged contents. Further once tag fact tables are built tools such as the conventional BI analytic tools can be applied to display search results to the user as described in .

In one embodiment the meta tag associated with the multidimensional tags is displayed corresponding to the predetermined measures and the predetermined tag dimensions. For example number of browsing hits in a particular day is displayed in A and the total number of browsing hits in a year 2009 in B. Further the document name and tags with the number of browsing hits are displayed in . In one exemplary embodiment the search results are displayed in a graphical form in . In summary by selecting the predetermined tag dimensions and the corresponding predetermined measures the method can be developed to collect the metrics during the system runtime and further those measurements can be analyzed to provide insights on how web contents are used in the system using the existing tools such as BI tools as shown on the GUI .

Few potential use cases are described below to illustrate how multidimensional tagging is applied to the real time applications. In one exemplary application systems can gradually filter out meta noises by eliminating the ineffective tags as the systems can identify tags that are not effectively consumed together with their associated web content using the information in the associated multidimensional tag. Thereby one of the major challenges in the current tagging systems in which the tags are diluted by lack of control of using terminology can be addressed. Further through multidimensional tagging the systems can identify tags that are used for the same web content but using different forms of words. Therefore merging those tags to the ones that is most used can also reduce the overall number of tags that mean the same. Therefore the better quality of tags means better classification and searching can be achieved. Using analytic ability given by multidimensional tags the system can promote better quality in tagging.

In another exemplary application the multidimensional tagging helps improve effectiveness of tagging by providing users more effective tags by analyzing how frequently the tag is used in comparison with how frequently tagged contents are consumed. As a result systems can provide users with effective tags when users are trying to tag the contents that belong to the similar category. For example if tag rock music is frequently used to identify certain types of music from a group of artists and those music are popularly consumed in younger user groups the tag rock music will be promoted to users to tag music that matches the similar user groups and artists. The above analysis will help the systems to discover tags such as rock music with many tag dimensional attributes e.g. user groups age group etc.

In yet another exemplary application multidimensional tagging helps to develop more effective navigation or visualization tools based on tags. For example by giving tag dimensions to tag clouds a multi level navigation of tag clouds can be easily implemented. This is due to hierarchies that come from tag dimensions. The similar effect to drill down can be achieved. For example users can easily navigate through time dimension such as day week month and year to find in each level how tag clouds look different.

Some embodiments of the invention may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components may be implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open Data Base Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

