---

title: Blade outer seal assembly and method
abstract: An outer seal assembly of a turbine rotor stage is secured within a circumferential groove of the turbine casing in such a manner as to both fix the outer seal assembly in its installed position and also provide for sealing around its outer periphery so as to thereby prevent the leakage of cooling air therearound. A plurality of arcuate elements having an angle-shaped cross sectional profile are provided to interface between radially extending arms of the outer seal assembly and the inner surface of the casing, with a locking mechanism then being applied to secure the two structures in their installed positions. Each of the arcuate elements includes a radially extending panel, a plurality of forwardly extending hooks that are disposed within a groove in the casing, and a second forwardly extending flange that engages the rear surface of the outer seal assembly arm. As the outer seal assembly arm is urged rearwardly during operation, the arcuate element is caused to rotate about a fulcrum in the circumferential groove such that a radially outer edge of the radially extending panel is urged against a casing inner surface so as to thereby enhance the sealing relationship therebetween.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941920&OS=07941920&RS=07941920
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07941920
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100315
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. Ser. No. 11 091 172 filed Mar. 28 2005 now allowed which is incorporated herein by reference.

The United States Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to contract number N00019 02 C 3003 between the United States Navy and United Technologies Corporation.

The invention relates generally to jet engines and more particularly to a blade outer air seal assembly for use in the turbine section of a jet engine.

In a jet engine wherein a turbine rotor is mounted for rotation within an engine casing it is common to provide a blade outer air seal BOAS between the casing and the turbine rotor so as to prevent or reduce leakage therebetween. Typically the BOAS is mounted in the casing by way a bolted flange on the inner periphery of the casing. The purpose of the bolted flange is to accurately and reliably locate the BOAS and to provide effective sealing against the leakage of BOAS cooling air which is circulated on the radially outer side of the BOAS to cool and purge the BOAS.

Such a bolted flange assembly is relatively heavy and ongoing efforts to reduce the weight of a jet engine favor the elimination of such a bolted flange. If the bolted flange is eliminated however an alternative approach to securing the BOAS in place and for sealing against the leakage of cooling air must be provided.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention provision is made for locating and securing the BOAS of a jet engine turbine rotor without the use of a bolted flange in the engine casing.

By another aspect of the invention the inner periphery of the engine casing is so shaped and includes both radially and axially extending flanges which matingly receive a specially designed locking and retention assembly which fixes the BOAS in its installed position and also provides for sealing of its rear periphery.

By yet another aspect of the invention the sealing and retention assembly includes a plurality of annular segments that are angle shaped in cross section with one arm of the angle shaped segment axially engaging a portion of the BOAS and the other arm being so disposed and engaged with the flanges of the casing as to allow the angle shaped segment to be rotated about a fulcrum and by such movement causing a surface of the angle shaped segment to conformingly engage a mating surface on the casing so as to thereby provide a sealing function while positioning the BOAS.

In the drawings as hereinafter described a preferred embodiment is depicted however various other modifications and alternate constructions can be made thereto without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention.

Referring now to an annular outer air seal assembly is shown generally at as applied to an inner surface of a turbine casing . As an integral part of the inner surface there is a circumferentially disposed mounting flange having a radially inwardly extending leg and an axially extending leg . The mounting flange forms a circumferential groove between an inner surface of the turbine casing and an outer surface of the axially extending leg . Also formed on the inner side of the turbine casing are the circumferential slots and .

The above described structure within the turbine casing is adapted to support a blade outer air seal BOAS shown at in . As will be seen in the BOAS comprises a plurality of circumferentially spaced interconnected segments having a generally axially extending seal portion a plurality of radially disposed arms See and a plurality of hanger elements . The arms are hidden in but are shown in whereas the hanger elements are hidden in but shown in . The hanger elements fit into the circumferential groove and are supported by the axially extending leg .

As shown in in addition to the arms and hanger elements the BOAS segments have other support elements disposed toward their upstream end which are mounted in appropriate structure on the inner side of the turbine casing but not shown in .

Although the axially extending leg in cooperation with the hanger elements acts to position and support the BOAS segments in the radial direction it is also necessary to locate and fix these seal elements in the axial direction. This is accomplished by the use of an angle shaped seal and a split retention ring . The angle shaped seal is dual purpose in that it provides in conjunction with the split retention ring a physical locating device for the BOAS as well as providing sealing for the higher pressure air outboard of the BOAS which is used to cool and purge the BOAS.

Referring again to and the angle shaped seal comprises a radially disposed arcuate shaped panel with a plurality of axially extending hooks . As shown in the hooks fit circumferentially between the hanger elements of the BOAS with both being disposed within the groove as shown in . For purposes of assembly the BOAS segments are first assembled from the rear of the engine with the hanger elements sliding into the circumferential groove and then the multiple arc shaped angle shaped seal segments are slid behind and hook into the same groove to either side of the BOAS hanger elements .

Also projecting from the radially disposed arcuate shaped panels are the forwardly extending flanges and the rearwardly extending flanges . The ends of the forwardly extending flanges fit into slots on the rear side of the arm elements as shown in . It is these forwardly extending flanges which bear against the slots to hold the BOAS in its axial position. The retention ring then interacts with the rearwardly extending flange and the circumferential slot to lock the assembly in its position. The details of how this occurs is fully described in U.S. patent application Serial No. Docket No. 1235015 filed concurrently herewith and incorporated herein by reference.

In addition to the function of the forwardly extending flange acting to bias the BOAS forwardly an advantage is taken of the tendency for the BOAS arm element to be rotated as the BOAS is biased rearwardly because of the pressure differential across the BOAS to aid in the sealing function. That is as the BOAS is moved rearwardly against the forwardly extending flange the angle shaped seal is rotated about the fulcrum that exists between the leg outer surface and a pad on the axially extending hook . With the rotation of the angle shaped seal a radially outer surface of the arcuate shaped panel is biased against the inner surface of the casing to provide a sealing relationship that prevents the leakage of cooling air rearwardly. Thus with the engagement of these two surfaces and those of the forwardly extending flanges in the slot a seal is created to prevent the rearward flow of the cooling air.

One of the noteworthy concepts of the above described design is the relatively long axially extending hooks . Due to tolerance stack up other retention schemes considered would not provide any consistent axial stop location for the BOAS. For example a radial segment fitting into the case but extending inwardly enough to provide the seal could have an axial position tolerance of 0.002 inches with the case slot. With the long arm this distance could translate into a substantial amplification of the tolerance on the piece allowing the BOAS to slide aft by a significantly greater amount. With the current design however any aft motion of the BOAS produces a tilt on the angle shaped seal. With a similar 0.002 inch tolerance on the axially positioning of the axially extending hooks the BOAS can slide aft by no more than 0.002 inches. Accordingly tight control of the tolerance in the radial distance between the casing inner surface and the axially extending leg outer surface is critical to ensure a consistent preload of the L seal. Further the effect of segment to segment variations in part length is also minimized with this design.

In addition to the length of the axially extending hooks the radial height of the panel is important. This radial height is preferably set to provide a sealing surface against the inboard portion of the BOAS and for ease of assembly.

Referring now to there are a pair of adjacent angle shaped segments and as will be seen there is a gap that exists both between the adjacent axially extending hooks and between the adjacent arcuate shaped panels . With respect to the gap between the adjacent arcuate shaped panels leakage of cooling air can occur therebetween and therefore it is necessary to seal this gap. This is accomplished by way of a shiplap arrangement that is obtained by attaching small plates that cover the gap and extend in overlapping relationship over the adjacent arcuate shaped panels . The plates are preferably attached by welding or the like. Alternatively the plates could be produced by machining them from the solid segments.

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to the preferred mode as illustrated in the drawing it will be understood by one skilled in the art that various changes in detail may be effected therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims.

