---

title: Automated straight-through processing in an electronic discovery system
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate to systems, methods, and computer program products for automated straight-through processing in an electronic discovery system. Further, the embodiments described herein provide for electronic discovery processes, such as, but not limited to, data collection, barcoding, source-to-processing, quality control, third-party network data transfer and data analysis platform loading to be automatically initiated and performed in pipeline fashion. Once a process is completed on a dataset, the next process in the flow is automatically initiated unless exceptions are determined to exist. In addition, embodiments provide for prioritizing cases and conducting each process in the straight-through data processing based on the case prioritization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09053454&OS=09053454&RS=09053454
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09053454
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100729
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 627 791 entitled Electronic Discovery System filed on Nov. 30 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 364 681 assigned to the assignee of the present application the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In general embodiments of the invention relate to methods systems and computer program products for electronic discovery and more particularly automated straight through processing in an electronic discovery system.

Electronic discovery commonly referred to as e discovery or eDiscovery refers to any process in which electronic data is sought located secured and searched with the intent of using it as evidence in a legal proceeding an audit a regulatory investigation a forensics investigation or the like. E discovery can be carried out offline on a particular computer or it can be accomplished in a network environment.

The nature of digital data makes it extremely well suited for investigation. In particular digital data can be electronically searched with ease while paper documents must be scrutinized manually. Furthermore it is difficult or impossible to completely destroy digital data particularly if the data is stored in a network environment. This is because the data appears on multiple hard drives and because digital files even if deleted generally can be undeleted. In fact the only reliable means of destroying digital data is to physically destroy any and all hard drives where it is stored.

In the process of electronic discovery data of all types can serve as evidence. This can include text image calendar event data databases spreadsheets audio files multimedia files web sites and computer programs. Electronic mail i.e. e mail can be an especially valuable source of evidence in civil or criminal litigation because people are often less careful in these exchanges than in hard copy correspondence such as written memos or postal letters. Certain regulations and other business needs require email to be retained for years.

E discovery is an evolving field that goes far beyond mere technology. It gives rise to multiple issues many of which have yet to be resolved. For example identifying data required to satisfy a given discovery request locating the appropriate set of data that has been identified and retrieving the data once it has been identified and located all pose problems in and of themselves. This is especially evident if the data that is being identified located and retrieved comes from an evolving or disparate enterprise such as a corporation that has experienced mergers acquisitions downsizing and the like. Mergers and acquisitions mean that the technology infrastructure across the enterprise may vary at least in the interim. However e discovery must be able locate and retrieve data from these disparate technology infrastructure in a timely fashion sometimes within days of when the merger acquisition occurs.

In addition to identifying locating and retrieving digital data the most critical part of any electronic discovery is the preservation of data which involves maintaining an original source copy and storing it for preservation purposes or furthering processing. This too becomes a daunting task for the enterprise system that encompasses a myriad of different technology infrastructures and the like. Therefore a need exists to improve the identification location retrieval and preservation processes especially in instances in which the enterprise system includes disparate technology infrastructures and the like.

As previously noted e discovery as opposed as conventional discovery of printed materials provides for the ability to filter or search the data so as to reduce the volume of data to only that which is relevant to the request. Such searching is typically accomplished by determining a specific date range for the request providing key words relevant to the case and the like. Searches using conceptual concepts heuristics linguistics and other variants are also becoming common. Still though improvements in the area of searching are greatly in need to further add efficiency to the overall e discovery process.

Once data has been retrieved preserved and in some instances searched the electronic data may be reviewed by the requesting entity such as a law firm securities commission or the like. While large requests are generally suited for online review the manner in which the data is presented for review adds efficiency to the review process and ultimately drives the cost of the review process. Therefore improvements in the manner in which data is presented for review are also desirable as a means of increasing efficiency and reducing costs.

Lastly once the digital data has been reviewed data identified as relevant may need to be produced in a tangible format for further analysis or legal evidentiary purposes. The produced documents must be properly identified and include necessary redactions and confidentiality markings.

Currently most e discovery processing has been conducted manually or in instances in which automated processing has been conducted manual actions have been required to initiate the next step in the process. For example processes such as data collection barcoding of data source to processing functionality quality control checks third party network data transfer and data analysis platform loading have in part or in whole required case analyst intervention in order to complete the process. Such manual processing is inefficient in that invariably time is lost waiting for a case analyst or someone else tasked to perform a function to perform the requisite action.

Therefore a need exists to develop an automated system for processing of data in an electronic discovery system. The desired system should minimize case analyst or other associate intervention such that case analyst or other associate intervention is only required in the event that a process is unable to automatically continue. The desired process should assign tasks to services that are executed automatically and based on completion of the tasks look for the next decision point in the overall data processing flow and continue processing until an exception occurs in the process which may require manual intervention. Such straight through type processing significantly reduces the time necessary to process electronic discovery data and significantly reduces the man power requirements associated with a labor intensive methodology.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Thus further details are provided below for systems apparatus methods and computer program products for automated straight through processing in an electronic discovery system in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The embodiments described herein provide for electronic discovery processes such as but not necessarily limited to data collection barcoding source to processing quality control third party network data transfer and data analysis platform loading to be automatically performed in pipeline fashion. Thus once a process is completed the next process in the flow is automatically initiated unless exceptions such as missing information or the like which may require manual intervention are determined to exist. Thus present embodiments provide for an efficient means of processing data in an electronic discovery system whereby manual intervention is minimized.

In addition embodiments provide for prioritizing cases and conducting each step in the straight through data processing based on the case prioritization such that data processing associated with cases identified as being high priority are performed on a next available thread basis while data processing associated with low or no priority cases are placed in a queue and performed on a first in first out basis. As such present embodiments ensure that data processing related to high priority cases is expedited through the system.

A method for automatic straight through data processing in an electronic discovery system defines first embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving at computing device case defining information for creating a case the electronic discovery system and receiving at a computing device a request for electronic data associated with the case. The method further includes initiating via a computing device processor automated straight through processing of the electronic data based on the request.

In specific embodiments of the method initiating further includes initiating via a computing device processor one or more of and in some embodiments all of automated collection of the electronic data automated barcoding of the electronic data automated source to processing of the electronic data automated quality control checks automated transfer of data to a third party network and or automated loading of the data on an data analysis platform.

In other embodiments of the method each of the processes initiated in the automated straight through processing are prioritized based on case priority. As such processing associated with cases that are deemed to be of high priority is conducted prior to processing associated with cases that are deemed to be of lower priority. The case priority may be based on one or more of case client age of the case monetary risk of the case reputational risk of the case and or client defined case categorization.

An apparatus for automated straight through data processing in an electronic discovery system provides for second embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing processor including a memory and at least one processor. The apparatus further includes an electronic discovery data processing module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The module is configured to initiate automated straight through processing of electronic data associated with an electronic discovery case based on receipt of a request for the data.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the module includes one or more of and in some embodiments all of a data collection routine configured to automatically collect the electronic data a barcoding routine configured to automatically barcode the electronic data a source to processing routine configured to automatically perform source to processing functions a quality control routine configured to automatically perform quality control checks a third party network data transfer routine configured to automatically transfer the data to a third party network and or a data loader routine configured to automatically load the electronic data on to a data analysis platform.

In further specific embodiments of the apparatus the electronic discovery data processing module further includes a prioritization routine configured to automatically determine a priority based on a case priority for each of the processes conducted in the straight through processing such as automatically collecting data automatically barcoding the data automatically performing source to processing functions automatically performing quality control checks automatically transferring the data to a third party network and or automatically loading the electronic data onto a data analysis platform. The case priority may be based on one or more of case client age of the case monetary risk of the case reputational risk of the case and or client defined case categorization.

A computer program product that includes a non transitory computer readable medium provides for third embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive case defining information for creating a case the electronic discovery system. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to receive a request for electronic data associated with the case. In addition the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes of causing a computer to initiate automated straight through processing of the electronic data based on the request.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As may be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system computer program product or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device or transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet. Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It may be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention provide automated straight through processing in an electronic discovery system. Further the embodiments described herein provide for electronic discovery processes such as but not limited to data collection barcoding source to processing quality control third party network data transfer and data analysis platform loading to be automatically performed in pipeline fashion. Once a process is completed on a dataset the next process in the flow is automatically initiated unless exceptions such as missing information or the like which may require manual intervention are determined to exist. In addition embodiments provide for prioritizing cases and conducting each process in the straight through data processing based on the case prioritization such that data associated with cases identified as being high priority are performed on a next available thread basis while processing associated with low or no priority cases are placed in a queue and performed on a first in first out basis.

Thus present embodiments provide for an efficient means of processing data in an electronic discovery system whereby manual intervention is minimized. As such in general a greater volume of data can be processed in a shorter period of time. Further present embodiments provide for cases and related work that have been identified as having a high priority to be processed accordingly insuring that processing related to high priority cases is expedited through the system.

The straight through processing may include but is not limited to data collection barcoding source to processing functions quality control checks transfer of data to third party networks and or loading data onto data analysis platforms. As such straight through processing provides for a plurality of processes to be automatically performed based on the successful completion on a preceding process. It should be noted that in specific embodiments the two or more of the processes are performed sequentially while in other embodiments two or more of the processes may occur in parallel.

If an exception occurs during an automated process which prohibits the process from completing remedial actions may be taken to correct or override the exception. Exceptions are defined herein as any occurrence that may prohibit the automated process from completing. Thus exceptions include but are not limited to insufficient missing information incorrect processing inability to perform automated processing on the data or the like. The remedial action may be an automated action or the remedial action may require notification of a case analyst associate and manual action on behalf of the notified case analyst associate.

Referring to shown is a more detailed block diagram of apparatus according to embodiments of the present invention. highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention. The apparatus may include one or more of any type of computerized device. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of one or more computing devices.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API that interfaces with any resident programs such as electronic discovery data processing module and routines associated therewith or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with electronic discovery data processing module and related applications routines sub routines sub modules thereof.

Computer platform additionally may include communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the apparatus as well as between the other networked devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection and transferring electronic data to a third party network as required.

As previously noted the memory of apparatus stores electronic discovery data processing module which is configured to initiate automated straight through processing of electronic data associated with an electronic discovery case.

The electronic discovery data processing module may according to specific embodiments include various routines for automatically processing data. While the routines are shown and described as being included within the electronic discovery data processing module the routines may according to other embodiments be configured to be external from the electronic discovery data processing module .

Thus electronic discovery data processing module may include data collection routine that is configured to automatically initiate data collection. As described in greater detail infra. e.g. and data may be collected from various sources including but not limited to local personal portable computers network storage including shared drives active and non active email sources journaled data sources collaboration discovery sites and the like.

Additionally electronic discovery data processing module may include barcoding routine that is configured to automatically initiate barcoding of data once the data has been successfully collected. As described in greater detail infra. e.g. and the barcode is generated at the time the collection process is initiated by an electronic discovery management server and acts as a folder within which all files obtained through the collection process are placed. Thus the barcode is stored with the collected data in a long term storage area network and is used to identify and access the data collected data at a later time. The log file of the barcode could include the time and date of the collection the name of the requester the particular file extension types requested or any other information that would be useful in identifying or referring to the collection.

In other embodiments the barcode information or an actual link to the barcode in the long term storage area network is stored within a case record and or a custodian profile at the same time that the barcode is generated. In either instance the barcode can be used for reference by the e discovery manager by viewing the case record or the custodian profile as the case may be at a later date to determine what collections have already occurred in the case or for the particular custodian. This is particularly advantageous in an enterprise environment or any environment in which multiple cases must be managed and custodians can be assigned to multiple cases because it allows the e discovery manager to readily locate and access data that was collected previously from a custodian perhaps for a different case and use the data either for discovery purposes or to inform the collection process.

In addition electronic discovery data processing module may include source to processing routine that is configured to automatically initiate source to processing functions once data has been collected and barcoded. As described in greater detail infra. e.g. source to processing function may include insuring that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention source to processing includes examining loose files for relevancy and if relevant storing the files in a proper data format such as a .PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like. Additionally source to processing functions may include dividing large datasets into smaller datasets to insure efficiency at the data analysis loading process filtering files from the dataset that do not require copying based on business rules and or deleting invalid files from the dataset.

Electronic discovery data processing module may also include quality control routine that is configured to automatically initiate quality control checks once the data has completed source to processing. Quality control checks are administered based on predetermined rules to insure that post source to processing data is valid.

Additionally electronic discovery data processing module may include third party network data transfer routine that is configured to if required automatically initiate transfer of the data to a predetermined third party network based on successful completion of quality control checks. The third party network may be any network domain external from the enterprise network. In specific instances the third party network may be controlled owned by the enterprise such as a subsidiaries network a co location network or the like while in other instances the third party network may be outside of the control of the enterprise.

In addition electronic discovery data processing module may include data analysis loader routine that is configured to if required automatically initiate loading of the data on a data analysis platform such as but not limited to Attenex available from FTI Technology of Seattle Wash. As described in greater detail infra. e.g. the data analysis platform tool provides a data reviewer the ability to analyze the data by applying search criteria or the like to the data.

The electronic discovery data processing module may additionally include prioritization routine that is configured to prioritize which data is processed in each process service of the automated straight through processing flow. According to specific embodiments prioritization may be based on case prioritization. The case prioritization criteria may include but is not limited to case client age of the case monetary risk of the case reputational risk of the case client defined case categorization or the like.

In specific embodiments the priority for each case may be determined on an ongoing basis such as daily or the like based on the predefined case prioritization criteria. In such embodiments once a processing thread becomes available for each process service in the straight through data processing system the data in the queue is analyzed and the data associated with the highest prioritized case is assigned to the thread and processed.

In other specific embodiments based on predefined case prioritization criteria specific cases may be deemed high priority cases requiring that data associated with such cases is prioritized. Prioritized data may require that the data be processed by a next available processing thread as a means of expediting the processing of the data. In such embodiments cases that are determined to be low or no priority cases may result in data being processed via a first in first out queuing methodology.

Prioritized processing of data in accordance with automated straight through processing assures that the system is not overloaded minimizes the overall cycle time and provides for an increase in throughput.

Referring to shown is a high level flow diagram of a method for automated straight through processing of data in an electronic discovery system in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event a computing device receives case defining information for creating a case in an electronic discovery system. The case may be a framework for litigation support activities forensic activities security activities or the like. An electronic discovery associate may enter certain information about a particular case such as a case name and or number a short description of the case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the case i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the case rather than the process like the e discovery manager etc.

At Event a computing device receives a request for electronic data associated with the case. In specific embodiments requesting the electronic data may be automated process based on identification of custodians associated with a case or in other embodiments a manual process whereby an associate accesses a custodian profile determines the data types and location to be collected.

At Event automated straight through processing of the electronic data is initiated based on the data request. As previously noted straight through processing of the electronic data may include but is not limited to data collection harvesting barcoding of the data source to processing functions quality control checks transfer of data to third party networks and or loading of the data onto data analysis platforms.

Referring to another flow diagram is presented of a method for automated straight through processing of electronic data in an electronic discovery system in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event an input is received at a computing device to create an electronic discovery case. As previously noted an electronic discovery associate may enter certain information about a particular case such as a case name and or number a short description of the case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the case i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the case rather than the process like the e discovery manager etc.

At Event an input is received at a computing device that requests specific data related to the case. In specific embodiments the requested data is associated with a custodian assigned to the case. In such embodiments an electronic discovery associate or the like accesses a custodian profile determines the data types and location to be collected.

At Event automated straight through processing of the electronic data is initiated by automatic prioritizing and collecting requested data in accordance with the prioritization. According to specific embodiments prioritization is based on case prioritization. Cases may be prioritized on an ongoing basis such as daily or the like based on predetermined prioritization criteria such as but not limited to case client age of the case work monetary risk of the case reputational risk of the case and or client defined case categorization. The requested data may be collected harvested from multiple sources including but not limited to local personal portable computers network storage including shared drives active and non active email sources journaled data sources collaboration discovery sites and the like.

At Event collected data is automatically prioritized and barcoded in accordance with the prioritization. Similar to all process services in the automated straight through data processing system prioritization occurs by the same process used to prioritize the collection of data. It should be noted that the priority itself may change if the priority listing of cases has been updated such as for example if collection occurred on a first day barcoding occurred on a second day and the prioritization was updated between the first and second days. As previously noted barcoding acts as a folder within which all files obtained through the collection process are placed and is used to identify and access the data collected data at a later time.

At Event barcoded data is automatically prioritized and source to processing functions are performed in accordance with the prioritization. As previously noted source to processing functions may include properly formatting the data in a standardized format parsing large datasets to accommodate data analysis platforms filtering datasets to eliminate files that do not require copying deleting known invalid files decrypting certain files verifying certain types of files copying the data to long term storage and the like.

At Event automatic prioritization and quality control checks are performed in accordance with the prioritization. Quality control checks are performed in accordance with predefined business rules to ensure the validity of the post source to processing data.

At optional Event if the data is required to be transferred to a third party network the data is automatically prioritized and transferred to the third party network in accordance with the prioritization. As previously noted data may be transferred to other networks external from the enterprise network such as a co location network otherwise referred to as a colo network .

At optional Event if the data is required to be loaded onto a data analysis platform the data is automatically prioritized and loaded onto a data analysis platform in accordance with the prioritization. The data analyst platform allows a data reviewer or the like to analyze the data by applying search terms to the dataset or the like.

At Event the collection of data is prioritized. Prioritization is required in the event that the resources available to collect the data are not sufficient to currently accommodate all of the requests to collect data. Thus in the event that sufficient resources exist to accommodate all of the current data collection requests the need to perform prioritization is obviated. As previously noted the prioritization may be based on case priority. Case priority may be based on predefined prioritization criteria including but not limited to case client age of case work monetary risk of case reputational risk of case and or client defined case categorization.

At Event based on the prioritization the requested data is automatically collected from various sources including but not limited to local personal portable computers network storage including shared drives active and non active email sources journaled data sources collaboration discovery sites and the like. At Decision a determination is made as to whether a data collection exception has occurred. A data collection exception is an event that results in a failure to collect all of the requested data. If the determination is made that a data collection exception has occurred at Event a data collector analyst is notified and based on the exception manual collection of the data or further automated collection of the data ensues.

If the determination is made that no data collection exception has occurred or no further data collection exceptions have occurred at Event barcoding of the data is prioritized. Prioritization is required in the event that the resources available to barcode are not sufficient to currently accommodate all of the requests to barcode data. Thus in the event that sufficient resources exist to accommodate all of the current barcoding requests the need to perform prioritization is obviated. Prioritization of the barcoding process may occur based on the same rules used to prioritize the collection data or in other embodiments separate barcode prioritization rules may exist.

At Event the collected data is automatically barcoded based on the determined prioritization. At Decision a determination is made as to whether a barcoding exception has occurred. A barcoding exception is an event that results in a failure to barcode all of the collected data. If the determination is made that a barcode exception has occurred at Event a data collector analyst is notified and based on the exception manual barcoding of the data or further automated barcoding data ensues. If the determination is made that no barcoding exception has occurred or no further barcoding exceptions have occurred at Event the flow continues to .

Referring to in addition to data that is automatically barcoded at Event other sources of electronic data may also undergo further automated straight through processing. These other sources of data introduced into the automated straight through processing flow include but are not limited to at Event pending evidence previously barcoded and at Event re use of existing evidence previously barcoded.

At Decision a determination is as to whether the data is for preservation purposes only. Preservation only data is defined as data that is to be collected identified via barcoding and stored with no additional processing. If the determination is made that the data is for preservation only at Event further processing is deemed not necessary and the process ends. If a determination is made that the data is not for preservation only purposes at Decision a determination is made as to whether the data is eligible for automated source to processing copying. Eligibility may be based on the data being capable of being automatically copied to a processing drive. If the determination is made that the data is not eligible for automated source to processing copying at Event the data is manually moved to the processing stage.

If the determination is made that the date is eligible for automated source to processing at Decision a determination is made as to whether a primary processing destination for the data has been defined. If the determination is made that the primary processing destination has not been defined at Event the primary destination is manually entered by an electronic discovery associate. If the determination is made that the primary processing destination has been defined at Event source to processing functions are prioritized. Prioritization is required in the event that the resources available to perform source to processing are not sufficient to currently accommodate all of the source to processing requests. Thus in the event that sufficient resources exist to accommodate all of the current source to processing requests the need to perform prioritization is obviated. Prioritization of the source to processing process may occur based on the same rules used to prioritize the collection data and or the barcoding of data or in other embodiments separate source to processing prioritization rules may exist.

At Event source to processing functions are automatically performed on the data based on the determined prioritization. As previously disclosed in addition to copying the data to a processing stage source to processing functions may include but are not limited to formatting the data in a standardized format parsing large datasets to accommodate data analysis platforms filtering datasets to eliminate files that do not require copying deleting known invalid files decrypting certain files verifying certain types of files copying the data to long term storage and the like. At Decision a determination is made as to whether a source to processing exception has occurred. A source to processing exception is an event that results in a failure to perform all of the required source to processing functions on all of the data. If the determination is made that a source to processing exception has occurred at Event a data analyst is notified and based on the exception manual source to processing functions are performed or further automated source to processing data ensues based on correction of the exception. If the determination is made that no source to processing exception has occurred or no further source to processing exceptions occurred at Event the flow continues to .

Turning the reader s attention to at Event quality control checks are prioritized. Prioritization is required in the event that the resources available to perform quality control are not sufficient to currently accommodate all of the quality control requests. Thus in the event that sufficient resources exist to accommodate all of the current quality control requests the need to perform prioritization is obviated. Prioritization of the quality control process may occur based on the same rules used to prioritize the collection data and or the barcoding of data and or source to processing functions or in other embodiments separate quality control prioritization rules may exist.

At Event quality control functions are automatically performed on the data based on the determined prioritization. At Decision a determination is made as to whether a quality control exception has occurred. A quality control exception is an event that results in a failure to perform all of the required quality control checks on all of the data. If the determination is made that a quality control exception has occurred at Event a data analyst is notified and based on the exception manual quality control checks are performed or further automated quality control checks ensue based on correction of the exception. If the determination is made that no source to processing exception has occurred or no further source to processing exceptions occurred at Event a determination is made as to whether the data requires transfer to a third party network. As previously noted the third party network may be any network other than the enterprise network such as a co location network a subsidiary network a network of company tangentially related to the enterprise or the like.

If the determination is made that the data requires transfer to a third party network at Event the transfer of the data to a third party network is prioritized. Prioritization is required in the event that the resources available to perform transfer of the data are not sufficient to currently accommodate all of the data transfer requests. Thus in the event that sufficient resources exist to accommodate all of the current data transfer requests the need to perform prioritization is obviated. Prioritization of the data transfer process may occur based on the same rules used to prioritize the collection data and or the barcoding of data and or source to processing functions and or quality control checks or in other embodiments separate data transfer prioritization rules may exist.

At Event automatic transfer of the data to a third party network is performed based on the determined prioritization. At Decision a determination is made as to whether a data transfer exception has occurred. A data transfer exception is an event that results in a failure to perform all or any portion of the data transfer. If the determination is made that a data transfer exception has occurred at Event a data analyst is notified and based on the exception manual data transfer is performed or further automated data transfer ensues based on correction of the exception. If the determination is made that no data transfer exception has occurred or no further data transfer exceptions occurred or if the determination is made that no transfer of the data to a third party network is required at Event a determination is made as to whether the data requires loading on a data analysis platform.

If the determination is made that no loading of the data onto a data analysis platform is required at Event no further processing may be required and the method ends. If a determination is made that loading of the data onto a data analysis platform is required at Event the loading of the data onto a data analysis platform is prioritized. Prioritization is required in the event that the resources available to perform loading of the data are not sufficient to currently accommodate all of the data loading requests. Thus in the event that sufficient resources exist to accommodate all of the current data loading requests the need to perform prioritization is obviated. Prioritization of the data loading process may occur based on the same rules used to prioritize the collection data and or the barcoding of data and or source to processing functions and or quality control checks and or data transfer or in other embodiments separate data loading prioritization rules may exist.

At Event automatic loading of the data onto a data analysis platform is performed based on the determined prioritization. At Decision a determination is made as to whether a data loading exception has occurred. A data loading exception is an event that results in a failure to perform all or any portion of the data loading. If the determination is made that a data loading exception has occurred at Event a data analyst is notified and based on the exception manual data loading is performed or further automated data loading ensues based on correction of the exception. If the determination is made that no data loading exception has occurred or no further data loading exceptions have occurred at Event the method of straight through processing is completed and the method ends.

As shown in the block diagram of the electronic discovery management server provides user interface management for a user via user interface . In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is a web server that can be accessed via a web browser. In one particular embodiment the electronic discovery management server is an intranet website server that may be accessed utilizing a web browser on a machine within the enterprise. Through the electronic discovery management server the user interface may be presented to a user for the purposes of managing the electronic discovery process and all processes described herein that are inherent thereto. For illustrative purposes it may be assumed herein that the primary user interacting with the user interface is an employee or contractor of the company who serves an electronic discovery management role and hereafter is referred to as the e discovery manager. As discussed in greater detail below the e discovery manager may utilize the user interface to manage cases custodians collections and collected data. It should be appreciated however that any individual could use the user interface to perform the manual functions herein attributed to the e discovery manager and indeed that an automated process could perform those functions as well.

Referring again to the electronic discovery management server is in communication with the database server and the collections server via the communication network . The collection server may be configured to run an application configured to manage network collection of electronic data associated with custodians residing on the network. The database server as shown in the block diagram of is configured to provide database services for the electronic discovery management server including housing the Unified Directory custodian database which includes data relating to individual custodians the case database which includes data relating to particular cases and ongoing collections database which includes data relating to collections being undertaken by the collections server . Each of the foregoing databases within the database server is discussed in detail below. It should be understood that multiple database servers could be employed instead of a single database server and reference to a single database server is for illustrative and convenience purposes only. For example the Unified Directory could be stored in one database server the case database could be stored in another database server and the ongoing collections data could be stored in yet another database server.

Regardless of the number of database servers employed it is an object of embodiments of the present invention that data relating to custodians and data relating to cases be stored in the database server independently such that custodians and cases may be managed separately. While custodian data in the Unified Directory and case data in the case database may be linked or correlated within the database server by allowing the data to be stored and managed separately in the database server embodiments of the present invention advantageously foster greater efficiency in the management processes of an enterprise electronic discovery environment. For example in an environment where custodians may be assigned to multiple cases the effort associated with the collection of data from custodians is greatly reduced because the data relating to the custodian s storage locations does not need to be generated on a case by case basis or reproduced in each case record and because in some situations data may only be collected once from a particular custodian but used in multiple cases.

It should be understood that as used herein the terms linking and correlating mean associating one set or item of data stored in a first storage location with another set or item of data stored in a second storage location. For example linking or correlating a case record to a custodian profile means associating the case data stored in a particular location with the custodian data stored in a different location. Likewise linking or correlating a harvested data set to a case record means associating the harvested data set stored in particular location with the case data stored in a different location. The first and second storage locations may be in the same datastore or in different datastores and may be in different physical geographic locations.

When a case is initialized and a custodian is assigned to the case because the custodian was identified as a subject for electronic discovery information for that custodian such as network identifications human resources information and other data relating to data storage locations is accessed by the electronic discovery management server in the Unified Directory in the database server and linked to the particular case record in the case directory rather than manually input by the e discovery manager into the case. Thus in the event the same custodian will be the subject of an electronic discovery request in multiple cases and therefore will be assigned to multiple cases by having the data relating to that custodian stored in a separate storage location i.e. the Unified Directory and linked to the multiple case records in the case directory the e discovery manager avoids having to re generate and re enter identical information about the same custodian into multiple case records.

Furthermore in addition to allowing for management of custodians apart from cases embodiments of the present invention also provide for management of collected data apart from cases. In this regard in certain embodiments the data collected from a particular custodian is stored separately from both the custodian information and any relevant case information as discussed below the collected data is stored in long term storage area network but is linked to a custodian which is in turn linked to one or more cases. This is advantageous because in the event a particular custodian is assigned to multiple cases data collected from the custodian may be shared with the other case s to which the custodian is assigned which reduces the likelihood of the inefficiencies associated with over collection. The foregoing are only two examples of the advantages brought about by the unique structure of the present invention indeed the separation of cases custodians and collected data such that they may be linked together yet managed separately greatly improves the efficiency of countless processes crucial to the operation of an electronic discovery system within the environment of an enterprise or any environment with multiple custodians and multiple cases.

Thus the various processes and components of the electronic discovery system may be primarily categorized within one of case management custodian management or data management although there are necessarily links between the various datastores case custodian collected data to streamline each process and ensure that each case record is complete. The particular processes and components that may be incorporated into embodiments of the present invention will now be fully explained within the context of the particular unit of work within which they primarily fall whether it is custodian management case management or data management.

With regard to custodian management according to some embodiments of the present invention the Unified Directory custodian database houses information relating to all potential custodians within the enterprise and the locations where those custodians store data. The information stored in the Unified Directory may include for a particular custodian for example the custodian s name position human resources identifier a unique number for each employee of the enterprise employment location domain email addresses network user identification personal computer s name paths of network storage devices used by the custodian including Shared Drives and HomeSpaces work history related persons such as managers team members or subordinates and any other information that may be relevant to the discovery process. Since the human resources identifier perhaps a social security number is always unique for each custodian in some embodiments the Unified Directory may be organized around the human resources identifier. The Unified Directory is generated through a multi step process that utilizes multiple tools and methods of identifying relevant information relating to custodians and the locations in which they store data.

For example the electronic discovery management server or the database server may be configured to interface with the computer databases of the human resources computer systems of the enterprise to copy the information from the human resources databases into the Unified Directory . In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server may also reach out to a network directory such as Windows Active Directory to identify network resources related to particular custodians and integrate this information into the custodian entries including the copied human resources information. Information for the Unified Directory may also be obtained from the managers of the information technology network i.e. those individuals responsible for setting up email accounts for custodians and managing the various file servers of the enterprise. Furthermore in addition to retrieving information in the manners described above in some embodiments information in the Unified Directory is generated through tools initialized and or deployed by the electronic discovery management server . In particular in some embodiments as shown in a profile scanning tool and a mapping tool are provided.

The profile scanning tool may be deployed by the electronic discovery management server and is configured to crawl the communication network scan each of the enterprise personal computers and transmit to the database server identifying information about each computer such as computer name and IP address and a list of all profiles including demographics information or network user identification associated with each computer. According to different embodiments the profile scanning tool may be run on the electronic discovery management server the collection server or another server in the communication network . In some embodiments the profile scanning tool is further configured to identify and transmit to the database server the most recent date and time at which a particular profile was logged on to the machine. According to some embodiments when information relating to a particular computer is received by the database server the database server uses the profile information which may include several user identifications to associate the particular computer to the custodians in the Unified Directory who are assigned those user identifications and store the computer names and IP addresses in those custodians entries in the Unified Directory for future reference in collections. The database server may also record in each custodian s entry in the Unified Directory the last time the computer was accessed by the custodian according to the profile information transmitted by the profile scanning tool . In other embodiments the list obtained by the profile scanning tool may be stored separately from the Unified Directory and accessed only when a particular collection is being undertaken. Thus the profile scanning tool ultimately generates a list of personal computers used by each custodian which list may be utilized to populate the custodian entries in the Unified Directory or may be a separate directory to be utilized at the time of collection or may be stored elsewhere as long as it is readily accessible to the e discovery manager when a collection of a custodian s local machine s is initialized as discussed in detail below.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the mapping tool is configured to crawl the communication network and examine the enterprise file servers residing on the communication network to locate and identify the path of any personal network storage area on each server. As used herein a personal network storage area is a network storage area associated with a single user who reads data from or writes data to it. Personal network storage areas may be in the form of network storage devices or folders or other resources within a network storage device and may be referred to hereafter for clarity purposes as HomeSpaces. According to different embodiments the mapping tool may be run on the electronic discovery management server the collection server or another server in the communication network . In some embodiments the mapping tool is a Windows service that is scheduled to execute through use of Windows Scheduled Task. As the mapping tool crawls the communication network it is configured to examine each file server and transmit to the database server the path of any network storage area within the plurality of servers that it positively identifies as a HomeSpace. In some embodiments the mapping tool is configured to explore the enterprise file servers by obtaining and reviewing the directories on each server and evaluating the paths of each network storage area therein including folders and other storage devices and resources.

With regard to identifying a particular network storage area as a HomeSpace according to some embodiments the mapping tool is configured to utilize conventional naming techniques for paths in the communication network to identify those paths of network storage areas within the enterprise file servers that include an indicator based on the conventional naming techniques that the particular storage areas associated with those paths are accessed and used by only one user and are therefore HomeSpaces. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention each user of the communication network is assigned to at least one user identification and those user identifications are the indicators that the mapping tool attempts to locate within paths when identifying HomeSpaces. In such embodiments it is the convention that the paths of HomeSpaces on the communication network include the user s user identification. On the other hand paths of shared network storage areas do not include user identifications. Therefore the mapping tool may explore the directories of each server within the plurality of servers evaluate each path in turn and make a determination as to whether or not the path includes a user identification.

If it is determined that the path includes the designated indicator for example a user identification the mapping tool is configured to positively identify the particular network storage area identified by that path as a HomeSpace and transmit to the database server the particular user identification and the path of the HomeSpace. When that information is received by the database server the database server uses the user identification to link the particular HomeSpace to the custodian in the Unified Directory associated with that user identification. Indeed the HomeSpaces identified through the mapping tool could be added to the relevant custodian entries in the Unified Directory making them accessible to the e Discovery manager each time those custodians are added to new cases. In other embodiments the HomeSpace directory generated by the mapping tool may be stored separately and only utilized or accessed when a particular collection is undertaken. In yet other embodiments it could be linked to the Unified Directory .

In some embodiments the mapping tool is also configured to recognize and transmit and the database server is configured to house an indication of the last time the HomeSpace was accessed by the particular user for example the last time any data was read from and or written to the HomeSpace. Additionally in some embodiments the mapping tool is configured to recognize when multiple paths map to the same network storage area. The collection server compares paths for the same user to determine if duplicative entries exist. This advantageously enables avoidance of multiple collections of the same data. Thus the profile scanning tool ultimately generates a list of HomeSpaces used by each custodian and this list may be presented to the e discovery manager when a collection of a custodian s HomeSpaces is initialized as discussed in detail below.

In addition to storing a list of personal computers and HomeSpaces used by a particular custodian which lists were generated by the profile scanning tool and the mapping tool respectively in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the database server is also configured to store a list of any shared network storage areas used by the custodian. As used herein a shared network storage area is a network storage area associated with multiple users who read data from and or write data to it. Shared network storage areas may also be in the form of network storage devices or folders or other resources within network storage devices and may be referred to hereafter for clarity purposes as Shared Drives. The user interface is configured to receive a path of a Shared Drive input by the e discovery manager and store the path in the Unified Directory in relation to one or more custodians human resources identifier s . More particularly in some embodiments once a particular user of the communication network is chosen for the collection process the e discovery manager may undertake to identify the particular shared network resources that that individual is using and eventually the paths associated with those shared network resources. This may be accomplished through conversations with the particular individual by utilizing data returned from the local collection tool executed on collection server shown in the block diagram of deployed to the particular user s machine as discussed in detail below and or by utilizing a file browsing tool executed on electronic discovery manager server as shown in .

According to some embodiments of the present invention the file browsing tool is configured to be utilized by the e discovery manager through the user interface . The file browsing tool gives the e discovery manager elevated authority within the communication network to access in a limited manner the enterprise file servers within the communication network . While the file browsing tool may not allow access to the actual files stored on certain file servers it allows the e discovery manager to browse through the directories of the file servers locate files that have been accessed by the custodian and determine the size of the files. In accordance with some embodiments the e discovery manager may initially have a general idea of a particular file server within the enterprise file servers that the custodian has used in the past. For example the custodian may communicate to the e discovery manager a particular folder name and or drive name on which he she has stored files. Additionally in some embodiments the e discovery manager may have already undertaken a local collection process on the custodian s machine wherein the local collection tool returned a list of the network resources that the user of that machine has used. In that event the e discovery manager may be aware of the particular drive referenced by the user. The e discovery manager may then employ the file browsing tool to browse out to the particular drive mentioned scan the folders for any folder having a name resembling that name given by the user identify any particular files created by and or accessed by the user determine the size of such files and retrieve the path of any folder or Shared Drive including data belonging to the user.

The retrieved paths of the Shared Drives may then be added either manually or automatically to the Unified Directory in the database server . Thus the Unified Directory may store in connection with one custodian and in particular in relation to the custodian s human resources identifier a list of the personal computers HomeSpaces and Shared Drives associated with that custodian. Each of these locations is a potential source of data stored by the custodian and once an investigation or collection of a custodian is initiated the location information stored in the Unified Directory may be accessed to determine the particular storage locations that need to be addressed during the investigation collection. In other embodiments the paths of the Shared Drives are not added to the Unified Directory but merely stored in the case record of one or more of the case s on which the custodian has been added to be accessed later when collections are initialized for the case. Therefore according to some embodiments the location storage information for a particular custodian is generated and stored either in the custodian s entry in the Unified Directory or in another location where it is linked to the entry or otherwise readily accessible when accessing the custodian entry. Once the custodian is assigned to a particular case the information may be automatically accessed through the Unified Directory as the custodian entry in the Unified Directory is linked to the case record and used to initiate collection of the custodian s files. This is advantageous and extremely efficient as it allows a completely automated investigation collection process rather than relying on the e discovery manager to manually input the targeted machines and file servers at the time of collection.

It should be noted that the Unified Directory may be regularly or continuously updated as new information is gathered using the tools described herein. More particularly the electronic discovery management server may be configured to automatically retrieve data from the human resources databases and Active Directory and any other relevant sources such as information technology directories or lists as well as deploy the profile scanning tool and the mapping tool at regularly scheduled intervals. Alternatively rather than periodically retrieving data from the various data sources such as the human resources databases the system may be configured such that the database server is continuously interfacing with the data sources such that the Unified Directory is updated in real time as the data within the data sources change. In either instance each of the feeds of information into the Unified Directory is regularly updated to ensure that the data in the Unified Directory is current.

In some embodiments the database server is configured such that all historical data relating to a custodian is stored in relation to that custodian s human resources identifier in the Unified Directory . Thus when the feeds of information into the Unified Directory are updated in the event data relating to the custodian has changed the database server is configured to store in the Unified Directory the new data and any relevant metadata including for example the time and date of the change as well as maintain a record of the old data so that it is still a part of the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . For example in the event the profile scanning tool identifies a new personal computer associated with a custodian and one of the personal computers associated with the custodian previously is no longer identified the database server is configured to store in the Unified Directory the information for each computer as well as indications as to when the new computer was first identified and when the old computer was no longer identified. In this way the custodian profile within the Unified Database may include a history of the personal computers used by the custodian. Such information may be relevant at the time of investigation or collection of the custodian.

One feed of information into the Unified Directory which is particularly relevant to electronic discovery is employment status. According to some embodiments when the feed of information from the human resources databases to the Unified Directory includes a change as to employment status of a particular custodian the electronic discovery management server is configured to recognize the change and possibly perform particular functions in response. More specifically in the event it is recorded in the Unified Directory that the employment status of a particular custodian changes from active to terminated the electronic discovery management server is configured to determine whether the custodian is assigned to any case or matter and if so to transmit to the designated manager or contact for the case or matter an electronic communication notifying the manager of the terminated status and inquiring as to whether the manager would like the terminated custodian s data collected. In the event the manager responds in the affirmative the electronic discovery management server is configured to automatically initiate the various collection processes of the present invention. Therefore the custodian s data may be advantageously collected prior to any destruction or unavailability that could be caused by the termination. Alternatively in other embodiments the electronic discovery management server may not communicate with the manager and may automatically initiate collection upon recognizing a change in employment status.

With regard to case management processes according to some embodiments a case may be initialized by the e discovery manager utilizing the user interface . In this regard the e discovery manager may enter into the user interface certain information about a particular matter or case such as a case name and or number a short description of the matter case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the matter i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the matter rather than the process like the e discovery manager custodians etc. The electronic discovery management server is configured to store this information in the case database in the database server . The case database is configured to house this information such that all information relating to a particular matter or case is related within the case database and a user can use the user interface to view a profile of the matter or case including all the information.

Once the matter and or case has been initialized the e discovery manager may add custodians to the matter or case from whom data may be required to be collected. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to add numerous custodians to a single matter or case at one time. In this regard the e discovery manager may use the user interface to enter in identifying information about the custodians. The identifying information for each custodian does not have to be of the same type. For example a name may be entered for one custodian an email address for another a network user identification for another and a human resources identifier for another. The user interface is configured to receive the identifying information in different input areas depending upon the type of identifying information being received. The electronic discovery management server is configured to use the input information to search the Unified Directory in the database server to determine which custodians are associated with the input information. In the case of a human resources identifier being entered only one custodian in the Unified Directory may be a match. On the other hand in the case of a name being entered multiple records may be returned with explanatory details thus enabling the e discovery manager to select the appropriate match based on the additional details provided.

The electronic discovery management server after searching the Unified Directory with the input identifying information is configured to present through the user interface a list of all custodians matching the input identifying information. In the event only one match was returned for a particular set of input identifying information the electronic discovery management server is configured to automatically select the custodian to be added to the case or matter. On the other hand in the event more than one match was located for a particular set of input identifying information then the multiple matches may be presented together to the e discovery manager through the user interface and marked so that the e discovery manager must review the multiple custodian profiles associated with the matches to determine the correct custodian that should be added to the case or matter. In doing so the e discovery manager may consider the other information in the profiles such as corporate title work location associated custodians etc. Such information can inform the e discovery manager as to whether the located custodian is the one intended. The e discovery manager may then select the correct custodian for addition to the case or matter and confirm that all custodians selected may be added to the case or matter.

According to some embodiments adding a custodian to a case or matter involves linking the custodian profile in the Unified Directory to the case or matter in the case database . More specifically the electronic discovery management server is configured to once a particular custodian is identified to be added to a particular case enter into the custodian section of the relevant case record within the case database an identification of the custodian i.e. the custodian s name and a link to the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory. According to other embodiments the custodian s profile information is retrieved and copied into the case record by the electronic discovery management server . In either instance when a collection for a particular custodian is initiated in a particular case by the e discovery manager the electronic discovery management server will automatically access the custodian profile for the custodian and determine the particular data storage locations that apply to that custodian. Thus as will be discussed in detail below in situations in which the custodian has already been added to the case and matter the e discovery manager must only select the particular custodian for collection and the remaining collection process will be automated because the Unified Directory already houses all of the relevant information to access the custodian s data and the electronic discovery management server is configured to automatically implement the various collection tools. This is a highly advantageous improvement over the systems of the prior art.

According to some embodiments upon adding custodians to a matter the electronic discovery management server is configured to initiate the transmission of preservation notices and surveys to the custodians. In this regard preservation notices and surveys relevant to the particular case or matter are stored in or linked to the case profile in the case database . Transmission of the preservation notices and surveys to custodians added to the case may be automated for example there may be preset instructions within the case profile that cause the electronic discovery management server to transmit a particular preservation notice and survey at a particular date or time or upon a particular triggering event such as a custodian being added to the case or the e discovery manager may manually cause the preservation notices and surveys to be transmitted. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to transmit the preservation notices and surveys via a standard email function. The surveys may be tied to the preservation notices such that they are transmitted to custodians together and one survey may be tied to more than one preservation notice. When a custodian responds to a survey the survey response is received by the electronic discovery management server and stored in relation to the relevant custodian in the case profile in the case database . In other embodiments the architecture of the case database may be configured such that it flexibly enables a user to link any all preservation notice s and or survey responses from a particular custodian to that custodian regardless of the particular case to which the preservation notice and or survey response relates. Furthermore the electronic discovery management server may be configured to store all or a portion of the data received in the survey response in the Unified Directory in the custodian s profile.

According to some embodiments each transmission of a preservation notice and survey to a custodian and each corresponding response is tracked in the relevant case profile in the case database . The electronic discovery management server may also be configured to transmit reminder notices if responses to the surveys are not received within a predefined period of time. The electronic discovery management server may also be configured to schedule reminder notices to be sent to custodians to periodically refresh the custodians memory of their duty to preserve files documents pertaining to the matter. In some embodiments there is a legal hold portal in which the custodian is presented with a single view of all outstanding legal holds applicable to the custodian. In this legal hold portal the custodian is presented with a comprehensive view of all outstanding notices and obligations to preserve data. If the custodian has somehow failed to acknowledge compliance with the legal hold the legal hold portal will also provide that information to the custodian thus providing an advantageous method of securing affirmation from the custodian. According to some embodiments the reminder notices may be inactivated upon closure or termination of a case or matter but can then be reactivated by the e discovery manager. In some embodiments once a preservation notice has been sent to a custodian the electronic discovery management server may undertake to prevent any reimaging or refreshing of the custodian s personal computer s by transmitting an alert of the preservation notice to the enterprise s information technology management group. In addition the survey responses received from custodians serve to inform the collection process. For example one survey may inquire as to what network storage devices the custodian uses when storing data. The answer that the custodian gives to the survey may inform the addition of Shared Drives to the custodian profile in the Unified Database that may be used later in collection.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the e discovery manager may utilize the user interface to add attachments notes tasks and search terms to a case or matter. In some embodiments the contacts managers for a case may also access the case profile in the case database using a web browser and may add attachments notes tasks and search terms to be stored therein. Thus the e discovery manager may not be the only entity with access to the case and case management tools of the electronic discovery management server . The subject matter of the attachments notes and tasks could be anything relevant to the case or matter. In some embodiments the tasks are directed to the e discovery manager or case manager or collector. In other embodiments the tasks are tasks that particular custodians must complete and the electronic discovery management server is configured to transmit a notice to the custodians that that the task needs to be completed perhaps using standard email functions. With regard to attachments the e discovery manager or the contact manager of the case may upload relevant files to be attached to the case profile.

With regard to the search terms the e discovery manager or the case contacts or managers may add certain terms to the case profile to be applied when searching the collected data to locate data responsive or relevant to the underlying issues in the case. Storing the search terms within the case profile is advantageous as it creates a record of the searching that is to be undertaken with respect to the data and aids in organization of the data as discussed further below.

According to some embodiments of the present invention when a decision is made that it is time to collect from certain custodians in a matter the e discovery manager may use the user interface to release the custodians from the matter to the underlying case. This release triggers the commencement of collection of the custodians data using the various tools of the system and the data storage information housed in the custodians entries in the Unified Directory and linked to the case record . Furthermore as discussed briefly above and in detail below from release of the custodians i.e. selection of those custodians in the matter to be released to the case by the e discovery manager to collection and storage of the collected data the process may be entirely automated. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to allow all custodians assigned to the matter to be released to the case at the same time. In addition in instances where the e discovery manager has previously created groups of custodians within the case the electronic discovery management server is configured to allow a group of custodians to be released from a matter to a case at the same time. In some embodiments automated collection of the custodian s data can occur at the time the custodian is released from the matter to the case thus minimizing the risk of spoliation.

Once a custodian has been identified for collection whether manually by the e discovery manager or by being released from a matter to a case the electronic discovery system is configured to automatically collect the custodian s data using the location information stored in the Unified Directory . Therefore the electronic discovery management server accesses the custodian profile of the custodian to be collected in the Unified Directory and determines from the information stored therein the different locations of data storage for the particular custodian that must be collected. There are many different locations that the system can address including personal computers email accounts and network storage areas including HomeSpaces and Shared Drives.

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes at least one personal computer s associated with the custodian then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files on these machines. Therefore the electronic discovery management server may retrieve the relevant machine identifying information such as domain name IP address etc. and may initialize deployment of a local collection tool running on collections server as shown in .

The local collection tool is configured to be deployed from the collections server whether through an application running on the collections server or otherwise or another server within the network to any of the enterprise personal computers . Therefore for a particular custodian the local collection tool is configured to utilize the machine identifying information supplied by the electronic discovery management server to be deployed to the identified custodian computer. According to one embodiment the local collection tool is configured to be automatically installed on the target custodian s personal computer. The local collection tool is further configured to generate a snapshot of the data residing on the local storage of the personal computer for example by using a commercially available tool such as the Volume Shadow Copy Service store the snapshot in a storage area on the personal computer and transmit copies of the files included in the snapshot to the collections server . By transmitting the data from the snapshot of the data stored on the hard drive of the personal computer the local collection tool advantageously allows the custodian to continue to use her machine without substantial interference from the local collection tool and even interact with the data stored on the hard drive as the snapshot of the data is being transmitted to the collections server . In some embodiments of the invention the tool may be deployed to the users computer and harvest all relevant files without the users knowledge and with no noticeable performance degradation to the users machines. This is advantageous when attempting to collect data from a user that may be under investigation for alleged wrongdoing for example.

In addition to the functions described above the local collection tool may also be configured to transmit to the database server a catalog of the files included in the snapshot to be stored in the ongoing collections database. This catalog may be referenced by the collections server in order to determine whether collection is complete and to resume interrupted collections at the point of interruption. Additionally in accordance with some embodiments the local collection tool is configured to compile and transmit to the electronic discovery management server a list of network resources the user is using including for example network applications and file servers that the user has used accessed or mapped as network drives. This list of resources may be stored in the database server in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . With regard to transmission of the files themselves according to one embodiment of the invention the local collection tool is configured to compress hash and upload the files included in the snapshot to the collections server .

In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server may utilize a computer watching tool to determine when to attempt a collection from a custodian s machine. The computer watching tool is configured to monitor the network and determine which of the enterprise personal computers are online. Therefore in the event there is a custodian whose local machine needs to be collected the computer watching tool is configured to determine when that machine joins the network i.e. when it appears to the computer watching tool and inform the electronic discovery management server that it should initialize the local collection tool immediately.

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes any paths for HomeSpaces or Shared Drives then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from these file servers by initializing the file server collection tool running on collection server as shown in . The file server collection tool is configured to access the file server located at the given path whether the file server is a HomeSpace or a Shared Drive copy the data residing on the file server and compress hash and transmit the copied data to the collections server . The file server collection tool may be programmed with preset instructions that allow it to only copy files meeting certain criteria for example files that have certain file extensions. Alternatively the programmed instructions may prevent the file server collection tool from copying files having certain file extensions or other attributes. Either of the foregoing is advantageous if the e discovery manager is not interested in copying executable files or source code for example. In some embodiments the file server collection tool is also configured to generate a size estimate of the files residing on the targeted file server. In one embodiment the file server collection tool may automatically begin the collection process copying and transmitting data if the size estimate falls below a predetermined threshold. In addition in some embodiments the file server collection tool is configured to determine whether a particular folder that it is collecting from a file server includes more than a token amount of nearline files and in the event that the folder does include such nearline files choose to not collect such files so as to avoid overloading the server. Therefore according to different embodiments the file server collection tool copies all or a portion of the files residing on a file server located at the path given in the released custodian s profile and transmits them to the collections server .

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes an email address for an email account on the enterprise email server then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from the enterprise email server by initializing the active email collection tool running on collections server as shown in . In some embodiments the active email collection tool is configured to access the particular Microsoft Exchange server within the enterprise email server on which the custodian s account resides which is known based on the information included in the Unified Directory copy all email located there including emails deleted by the custodian up to a predetermined period of time prior to the collection for example seven days prior to the collection and transmit the copied emails to the collections server .

Regardless of the storage resource location from which data is being collected or the particular type of data being collected the collections server is configured to store the data first while the collection is still ongoing in the short term staging drive until the particular collection is complete attach a barcode to the set of data resulting from the particular collection and then copy the data set to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. In some embodiments the barcode is generated at the time the collection process is initiated by the electronic discovery management server and acts as a folder within which all files obtained through the collection process are placed. Thus the barcode is stored with the collected data in the long term storage area network and is used to identify and access the data collected data at a later time. The log file of the barcode could include the time and date of the collection the name of the requester the particular file extension types requested or any other information that would be useful in identifying or referring to the collection.

In some embodiments the collections server or another server transmits metadata about the collected data to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection whether it was a local collection an active email collection a file server collection etc. In other embodiments the barcode information or an actual link to the barcode in the long term storage area network is stored within the case record and or the custodian profile in the Unified Directory at the same time that the barcode is generated. In either instance the barcode can be used for reference by the e discovery manager by viewing the case record or the custodian profile as the case may be at a later date to determine what collections have already occurred in the case or for the particular custodian. This is particularly advantageous in an enterprise environment or any environment in which multiple cases must be managed and custodians can be assigned to multiple cases because it allows the e discovery manager to readily locate and access data that was collected previously from a custodian perhaps for a different case and use the data either for discovery purposes or to inform the collection process.

After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive . Once the data has entered the long term storage area network it is not necessarily ready for review. Indeed it is likely that the data may need to be processed before it is searchable and suitable for review by investigators and attorneys. For example the files may be encrypted in the form in which they are collected and sent to the long term storage area network . Therefore according to some embodiments the data may be copied to the conversion services server where a series of decryption and standardization functions may be applied to it. After the data is decrypted and standardized it is returned to the long term storage area network and may remain there to be accessed for review purposes.

With reference now to a block diagram is provided that illustrates the electronic discovery management structure of the present invention according to some embodiments. As illustrated in certain processes described herein may be categorized within one of case management as represented by Block custodian management as represented by Block or data management as represented by Block . As described above the electronic discovery system is arranged such that cases custodians and data may be managed independent of one another. However there is still an element of the categorization of processes within the categories that is conceptual and it should be understood that certain processes may be correctly assigned to more than one category. Therefore while the architecture of the system allows separate management of custodians cases and data certain processes of the present invention may affect more than one of the foregoing.

The first process that falls within the case management category is creation of a matter or case as a framework for litigation support activities as shown in Block . As described above the e discovery manager may enter into the user interface certain information about a particular matter or case such as a case name and or number a short description of the matter case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the matter i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the matter rather than the process like the e discovery manager etc.

It is noted that custodian information is stored separately from the case information allowing for the same custodian in multiple cases. This provides for the electronic discovery system of the present invention to have scalability whereby evidence associated with one custodian may be used in multiple cases.

The electronic discovery management server stores this information in the case database in the database server . The case database houses this information such that all information relating to a particular matter or case is related within the case database and a user such as a manager or contact can use the user interface to view and edit a profile of the matter or case.

The next process within case management is the creation of preservation notices and surveys specific to the matter as shown in Block . In this regard the e discovery manager may through the user interface either generate a new preservation notices or surveys relevant to the particular case or matter to be stored in the case profile in the case database or alternatively link a preservation notice or survey already stored in the database server to the case profile of the specific case or matter at issue. Also within case management is the creation of search terms pertinent to the case as represented by Block . As described above the e discovery manager or a contact or manager for the case may use the user interface to input individual search terms or search term sets to be applied to the data harvested in the case. In some embodiments the search terms may be limited to be used with particular custodians and or with particular harvested data types. The search terms will be saved in the case database so that they may be readily applied to harvested data and used in connection with storing the resulting responsive data.

The processes of entering relevant attachments notes and updates to a particular case or matter also falls within the case management category as demonstrated by Blocks and . The e discovery manager or a case contact or manager may use the user interface to upload documents and enter notes and other relevant data including updates and reminders to be stored in the case profile of the case in the case database . Once these attachments notes and updates are added they may be referenced whenever a user views the case profile through the user interface . The cost estimation modules of the present invention are also processes that are categorized as case management processes as shown in Block . In this regard the electronic discovery management server utilizes a cost estimation tool to determine the cost of harvesting and reviewing data based on a number of factors including for example number of custodians amount of harvested data data types historical averages for specific data types etc. Finally case management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by block .

Moving now to custodian management certain processes falling within the category of custodian management are shown in Block . While the processes involving generation of the Unified Directory certainly could be categorized as custodian management the processes shown in include those processes involving management of custodians within the scope of a case or matter. In that regard the first process of custodian management included in is the addition of custodians to a case or matter as shown in Block . As described above the e discovery manager may use the user interface to link a custodian s profile from the Unified Directory to the particular case profile in the case database . Thus the custodian profile and case profile are correlated. The next processes within custodian management is the transmission of preservation notices and surveys to custodians as shown in Block and the presentation of the surveys to custodians as shown in Block . It should be understood that in some embodiments the system that transmits the surveys may operate independently of the system by which the preservation notices are sent to custodians. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server uses the contact information in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory to transmit the preservation notice s and survey s stored in the case profile to the custodian. In some embodiments a standard email function is used so that the only information needed from the Unified Directory is the custodian s email address. When the custodian checks her email the request to complete the survey will appear as a message therein and when she opens that message content the survey will be presented to her. The survey may be configured such that when she fills it out the survey is automatically transmitted back to the database server for storage in the case profile and the custodian s profile.

Also falling within custodian management is the process of releasing custodians from a matter to a case as shown in Block . The e discovery manager uses the user interface to mark the custodian s profile so that the custodian is now activated for collection of data. This may occur within the case database since the custodian s profile is linked thereto. Once the custodian is released the electronic discovery management server may access the custodian s profile and initialize collection based on the various data storage locations identified in the profile. Therefore as represented by Block the electronic discovery management server may automatically determine the data types and locations of data to be harvested by accessing the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . Alternatively the e discovery manager may manually make the same determination by accessing and viewing the custodian s profile. Finally as with case management custodian management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by Block .

The last category is data management represented by Block . One major set of processes within data management are the processes relating to the harvesting of data as shown in Block . These processes include the collection of data from all the different storage areas of a particular custodian including the custodian s local storage on her personal computer s the custodian s network storage areas the custodian s email and any other areas as are described herein. All of the data in the various storage areas is copied and transmitted to the collections server as described in detail for each particular collection tool or process. Upon reaching the collections server data resulting from a particular collection is temporarily stored in the short term staging drive until the collection is complete at which point it is stored in the long term storage area network in association with a specific identifying barcode. The foregoing process is represented by Block . The data may require decryption or standardization functions to be applied to it in order for it to be searchable and or otherwise usable so the next process that falls within data management is the copying of the data to the conversion services server for analysis and conversion as necessary as shown in Block . Once the data is converted it is returned to the long term storage area network to be used in review.

Also falling within data management is the association of particular data sets with particular sets of search terms stored in the case profile of the case database . In this regard certain search terms stored in the case profile are stored with the intention of being applied to certain types of data certain custodian s data and or a particular barcode associated with a certain collected data set. Alternatively certain search terms may be applied to all data collected for a specific case. In either instance the electronic discovery management server accesses the case profile determines the search terms to be applied and associates the search terms with the barcode of the appropriate data sets in long term storage. Thus the search terms will be applied to that data and the results will be generated and presented to reviewers for analysis. Finally as with the other management categories data management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by Block .

With reference to an exemplary process for managing a case is provided in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As represented by Block a case or matter is created by the e discovery manager and stored in the case database . Next custodians are added to the case as shown in Block by linking the custodian profiles of the Unified Directory to the case profile. Next as represented by Block the e discovery manager and or the case contact or manager adds search terms to be applied to data harvested for the case including instructions as to applying the search terms to particular data types or custodians. Block represents the determination that must be made as to whether there is a matter or just a case. If there is no matter because preservation notices are not required for example for an audit then the process will move straight to the initialization of data collection. On the other hand if there is matter rather than just a case then the creation of preservation notices is required as shown in Block .

The preservation notice as shown in Block is transmitted to the custodians added to the matter perhaps using email. As shown in Block a reminder notice module may be employed. As shown in Block the reminder notice module transmits periodic reminder notices to custodians. The notices may be sent over email and may remind custodians about the preservation notice and or remind custodians to fill out surveys. With regard to surveys in the event a survey is required or desired according to Block a survey is created. The survey may be saved in the case profile in the case database . As shown in Block it is possible to enable the survey to be attached to and transmitted with the preservation notices.

Next as shown in Block the e discovery manager may release custodians from the matter to the case which initialized collection of the custodian s data. As shown in Block the e discovery manager or the electronic discovery management server accesses the custodian profile determines the data types and location to be collected and initializes the applicable collection tools to go collect the data. Once the data has been collected and a unique barcode has been assigned to each dataset based on the particular custodian and storage location from which it originated as shown in Block the search terms previously stored in the case profile may be assigned to the dataset based on the input instructions regarding the search terms. These search terms may be applied to the dataset and the results saved to be presented to reviewers for analysis.

With reference to an exemplary process for managing a custodian is provided in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. First as represented by Block a custodian is added to a matter or case. In this regard the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory is linked to the relevant case or matter profile. In order to locate the custodian s profile a custodian search module may be employed as shown in Block . Therefore the e discovery manager may enter any identifying information about the custodian whether it is the custodian s name network user identification email address etc. The custodian search module will take the input information and search the Unified Directory for a match. If more than one match is obtained the user interface will present all matches and allow the e discovery manager to browse the associated profiles to determine the intended custodian. In this way the correct custodian is identified and the profile of that custodian is linked to the appropriate case or matter.

As represented by Block the electronic discovery management server may determine whether the particular custodian added is a member of the enterprise do not contact list. In this regard there may be an indication in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory that the particular custodian should not be contacted regarding collections and an alternative contact should be used such as an administrative assistant of the custodian. Alternatively there may be a separate do not contact list stored in the database server that must be accessed and searched to determine whether or not the custodian appears on that list. In either instance a determination is made as to whether or not the custodian should be directly contacted and in the event the custodian should not be directly contacted the contact information for the custodian s assistant or other stand in should be obtained. This information will be used later for transmitting preservation notices and surveys.

Next in accordance with Block a determination is made by the electronic discovery management server as to whether the custodian has been added to a matter or a case. If it is a case then the custodian is verified as shown in Block supplemental data may be added to the custodian profile in the Unified Directory as required as shown in Block and then the various collection tools are initialized by the electronic discovery management server for collection of the custodian s data as shown in Block . On the other hand if it is a matter then preservation notices may be required. Therefore as shown in Block a preservation notice is sent via email to the custodian or custodian stand in. As shown in Block the custodian may then be inactivated from the case because for some reason data does not need to be collected from the custodian. In the future when it comes time to collect from the custodian the custodian will be reactivated as shown in Block . For example a particular individual may have been added as a potential custodian but was later deemed to be unimportant based on initial review thus leading to inactivation. On secondary review however a realization may be made that this person is of importance after all thus necessitating reactivation. Such inactivation and reactivation does not affect the actual data collection process and only impacts the matter pre collection level of a particular case.

After a preservation notice is sent a determination is made by the electronic discovery management server as to whether a survey is required as shown in Block . It should be noted that in alternate embodiments the decision on whether to send a survey may be made prior to sending the preservation notice. In such alternate embodiments if the survey is required it may become a component of the preservation notice and thus accessed simultaneously by the custodian. If a survey is required it is transmitted in conjunction with a preservation notice and the answers are collected by the electronic discovery management server and stored in the database server as shown in Block . Reminder notices for the preservation notices and surveys may also be transmitted to the custodian as shown in Block . Next once it is time to collect data the custodian is released from the matter to the case as shown in Block and the various collection tools are initialized by the electronic discovery management server for collection of the custodian s data as shown in Block . In this process the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory is accessed in order to determine the various locations where the custodian may have stored data. Finally as shown in Block the custodian s data is collected.

Referring to flow diagrams are presented of a method for harvest data from various data sources in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event the process whereby data is collected is initiated and at Event the type of data is identified. Data Block signifies active email that is collected from an exchange system or the like. At Event the automated active email collection tool is implemented to collect email from identified email address. As previously noted and in accordance with present embodiments of the invention if a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes an email address for an email account on the enterprise email server then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from the enterprise email server by initializing the active email collection tool running on collections server . In some embodiments the active email collection tool is configured to access the particular Microsoft Exchange server within the enterprise email server on which the custodian s account resides which is known based on the information included in the Unified Directory copy all email located there including emails deleted up to a designated prior period for example seven days prior to the collection and transmit the copied emails to the collections server . The email collection tool is also capable of implementing bulk requests and for collecting email on a scheduled basis such as daily. The email collection tool is additionally capable of being implementing enterprise wide and requires no server identifiers or the like to collect the active email. In this regard the email collection tool serves to reduce security risk.

At Event a barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of email resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive . As such barcoding is performed without the need to execute the barcoding tool on an exchange server and as such no human intervention is needed in the barcode process. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention one barcode may be assigned per custodian per data type and per event i.e. case matter etc. 

At Event the collected email data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets. When the search terms are applied a listing of the files and documents including those terms the search term hit list are presented to the reviewer and also stored in the database server . The reviewer may provide an indication of this to the electronic discovery management server which may then make a determination that other documents within the search term hit list are more likely to be responsive.

At Event the collected and barcoded active email data is copied to a processing drive for subsequent analysis. It should be noted that the nature of email data obviates the need to perform conversion and or decryption on the data set. At Event the active email data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data Block signifies other non exchange server based email such as email accessed through a client server collaborative application such as Lotus Notes or the like. At Event NSF files or any other file types associated with non exchange server based email is manually harvested from an enterprise grade email server having collaborative capabilities such as a Lotus Domino server or the like.

At Event a barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of non exchange server email resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive .

At Event the collected non exchange server email data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets. When the search terms are applied a listing of the files and documents including those terms the search term hit list are presented to the reviewer and also stored in the database server . The reviewer may provide an indication of this to the electronic discovery management server which may then make a determination that other documents within the search term hit list are more likely to be responsive.

At Event the NSF files or any other file types associated with non exchange server based email that may be encrypted is decrypted using a decryption tool in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The encryption of NSF files occurs at the user level and therefore only the user has the password necessary for decryption. The decryption tool allows for decryption of the NSF file type data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption tool finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the non exchange server email data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data Block signifies journaled data such as electronic commerce data stored on a repository for the purpose of regulation compliance to regulating bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC or the like. At Event criteria is extracted from input system and manually entered in a designated third party system for data retrieval.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of journaled data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded journaled data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files and the like.

At Event the journaled data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the journaled data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Referring to data block signifies data from a local Personal Computer PC such as enterprise PC . At Event the local collection tool is implemented to collect data from designated PCs by taking a snapshot of the device s hard drive. According to one embodiment of the invention the local collection tool may be autodeployed thus obviating the need for any manual entry by the e discovery manager or the like. In other embodiments of the invention the local collection tool may be employed to collect data from network storage.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of local PC data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded local PC data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the local PC files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption tool in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption tool allows for decryption of the PC files data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption tool finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the local PC data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the local PC data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies data from network storage such as a shared drive or HomeSpace. At Event the file server collection tool is implemented to automatically collect data from shared drives and or HomeSpace. According to one embodiment of the invention the file server collection tool may be autodeployed thus obviating the need for any manual entry by the e discovery manager or the like.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of network storage data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded network storage data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the network storage files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption tool in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption tool allows for decryption of the network storage data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption tool finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the network storage data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the network storage data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies electronic data for forensics. At Event a forensic collector tool such as EnCase may be executed on the devices of interest to collect data. According to one embodiment of the invention the forensic collector tool may be automatically deployed on the device of interest without the knowledge of the device user. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a computer watcher tool may be implemented not shown in that watches the network to determine the addition or subtraction of computers to the network based on ID s IP addresses returned from the network.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of forensic data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded forensic data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the forensic files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption tool in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption tool allows for decryption of the network storage data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption tool finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the forensic data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the network storage data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies collaborative data such as data residing at discovery sites for example LiveLink or the like. At Event a discovery site collector tool such as a LiveLink collector tool may be executed on the devices of interest to collect data. According to one embodiment of the invention the discovery site collector preserves at least a portion of the discovery site database in the e discovery database including all files and all revisions of the files. In this regard the discovery site collector tool queries against the database to define what files need to be retrieved then copies those files based on the result of the query. Metadata pertaining to the files is retained in the case management system tables. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the discovery site collector tool collects the documents and the related metadata and uses the metadata to automatically rename the files.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of discovery site data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded discovery site data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the discovery site data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the discovery site data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

In order to illustrate the efficiencies and advantages provided by the unique structure of embodiments of the present invention that is separating the storage and management of custodians cases and collected data but allowing linkages between them provide illustrations of the user interface visible to the e discovery manager conducting electronic discovery using an exemplary electronic discovery system in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Referring to a screen shot of an exemplary case record within the case database is provided. The most general case information appears on the main page with options on the left hand side given to link to other information about the case on different pages most notably custodians and evidence collected data . As discussed previously both the custodian profiles and the collected data are not housed exclusively in the case record but rather are stored elsewhere the Unified Directory and the long term storage area network respectively and linked to the case record to promote efficiency within an enterprise electronic discovery environment.

Referring to a screen shot of the custodian page of the case record is provided. The custodian list shown is housed within the case record in the case database but each custodian name is a hyperlink to the custodian profile within the Unified Directory . In some embodiments where the custodian profile in the Unified Directory does not contain all information about the custodian that may have been obtained during various cases and or matters the hyperlink shows the custodian record across all cases including the information retrieved from the Unified Directory . Thus all of the information regarding the custodian does not need to be copied or manually input to the case record. This is particularly advantageous where a single custodian is assigned to multiple cases. Rather according to embodiments of the present invention the electronic discovery management server upon a particular collection being initialized may access the Unified Directory in order to determine the information about the particular custodian including the data storage locations that the custodian uses such as workstations HomeSpaces email and shared drives and use that information to automatically begin the collection process.

Referring to a screen shot of the custodian profile within the Unified Directory is provided. As shown the Unified Directory may be queried with particular information about one or more custodian s for example name or email address and the matching results will be provided. This would occur for example when custodians are added to cases as discussed in detail above. Furthermore if the e discovery manager is within the case record and viewing the custodian page of the case record as illustrated in the hyperlinks provided in the custodian names set forth in the custodian list will allow the e discovery manager to access a page very similar to this one except that the Directory Lookup feature will not appear. Rather activating that hyperlink in the case record will bring the e discovery manager to the custodian profile where the information about the custodian and his or her data storage locations may be reviewed. Thus these screen shots demonstrate how custodians are managed and stored separately from the cases with which they may be associated according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Referring now to a screen shot of the evidence page within the case record is shown. As discussed previously evidence metadata like custodian information is stored separately from the case record and linked to the cases and or custodians to which it relates. This allows the data collected for one custodian in a particular case to be readily accessed and used in another case. As shown in a list is provided within the case record that sets forth all custodians from whom data has been collected or identified for use within that specific case. Furthermore the list of the custodian names contain hyperlinks to the custodians profiles within the Unified Directory and or the custodian record across all cases according to different embodiments which profile or record houses a full list of the barcodes associated with data historically collected from that custodian. Thus from the case record it is possible according to some embodiments of the present invention to readily access both a list of all collections that have been performed for that specific case and through activating one hyperlink a list of all collections that have been performed with respect to a particular custodian.

In that regard referring now to a screen shot showing the list of barcodes associated with a particular custodian within the Unified Directory is shown. Thus the list includes all data collected from the custodian for any number of cases. As discussed previously this list may be used to access the data at any time even if the e discovery manager is working on an entirely separate case. This reduces the instances of over collection and wasted effort and storage space by promoting the sharing of data among cases. The screen shots provided and the processes described merely depict one embodiment of the present invention. It should be appreciated that there will be numerous ways to implement the novel concept of structuring the electronic discovery system such that the case custodian and collected data management processes are separate.

Thus present embodiments herein disclosed provide for automated straight through processing in an electronic discovery system. Further the embodiments described herein provide for electronic discovery processes such as but not limited to data collection barcoding source to processing quality control third party network data transfer and data analysis platform loading to be automatically initiated and performed in pipeline fashion. Once a process is completed on a dataset the next process in the flow is automatically initiated unless exceptions are determined to exist. In addition embodiments provide for prioritizing cases and conducting each process in the straight through data processing based on the case prioritization.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other updates combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

