---

title: Apparatus and method for compensating images for differences in aspect
abstract: A method and apparatus for eliminating aspect dependence of images generated by a radiative scanner such as a radar, sonar, or the like. Echoes from the scanner are received back and detected at a known and preselected number of aspects. The echo received at each aspect is multiplied by the transform of the point spread function of each of the other preselected aspects. In this manner, the frequency domain version of each echo is multiplied by the frequency domain point spread function of all of the preselected aspects, and the ultimate processed echo will be aspect independent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08379484&OS=08379484&RS=08379484
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08379484
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100517
---
This application has the priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 216 566 filed May 18 2009 which is currently pending.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

A fundamental problem in sonar or radar imaging is that the echoes returned from the same object will differ depending on the aspect at which the sonar or radar radiatively scans the object. This is of special concern to a class of problems collectively named feature based navigation in which a vessel such as an ocean going ship submersible platform helicopter or airplane or the like compares echoes it receives to a pre existing radar sonar map to identify or update the vessel s location. If the aspect at which the map was generated differs from the aspect at which the vessel s radar sonar scans and all things being equal this would be so almost always the correlation between the vessel s scan and the pre existing map will be degraded. Another way to put this is that the point spread function relating radiative scatter from a point to a detector varies with aspect so that for example a sonar detector will have a different point spread function at each aspect at which it can scan. Thus even echoes from the same object taken at identical distances from the detector but at different aspects with respect to the detector will have different signatures and their correlation with one another or with the same object s echo signature in an extant map will be degraded.

Accordingly an object of the invention is to reduce or eliminate aspect dependence of radar sonar echoes returned from the same object or from highly similar objects.

In accordance with these and other objects made apparent hereinafter the invention concerns a method and apparatus in which a radiative scanning signal such as from a radiative scanner such as a sonar or radar produces echoes of the signal for example from an object one knows is in the vicinity. The echoes are received back and detected at a known and preselected number of aspects with respect to the radiative scanner. The echo received at each aspect is multiplied by the transform of the point spread function of each of the other preselected aspects. In this manner the frequency domain version of each echo is multiplied by the frequency domain point spread function of all of the preselected aspects and the ultimate processed echo will be aspect independent. Thus a vessel that processes its echoes in this manner can compare it to a pre existing map generated in this manner to identify matches thus determining the position of the vessel.

These and other objects are further understood from the following detailed description of particular embodiments of the invention. It is understood however that the invention is capable of extended application beyond the precise details of these embodiments. Changes and modifications can be made to the embodiments that do not affect the spirit of the invention nor exceed its scope as expressed in the appended claims. The embodiments are described with particular reference to the accompanying drawings wherein 

With reference to the drawing figures wherein like numbers indicate like parts throughout the several views shows a ship on surface with a side scanning sonar . also shows a set of reference axes marked z indicating altitude above marine bottom and x y indicating the plane in which marine bottom lies. Sonar acoustically scans marine bottom with a beamwidth illustrated in as having azimuthal z axis boundary . Within beamwidth on marine bottom is bottom patch which is distinct from the surrounding portion of bottom . Patch could be for example areas of sea shells or pebbles surrounded by an otherwise sandy bottom .

The effect of varying aspect is seen from the following For a sonar on ship centered at x y the image I x y of a point at x y is Where Pis the point spread function of Ifor sonar . A scene at some distance x y from sonar can be represented as a collection of sonar point scatterers which are representable as the sum of impulse functions 

The value of this is further illustrated in in which side scanning sonar on ship is illustrated collectively as having plural aspects of interest which are relatively finely spaced apart each aspect having its own point spread function with respect to sonar . Sonar is directional e.g. a linear phased array and thus one knows a priori the direction corresponding to each one of the aspects . As sonar scans a processor aboard ship associated with sonar records the echo signatures determines from which direction relative to sonar the echoes arrived and thus identifies which point spread function that corresponds to which echo. The processor is preferably an onboard process computer but could be e.g. a distant computer to which sonar is telimetered. The processor transforms the echoes into the frequency domain by performing a Fourier Transform on each preferably by a Fast Fourier Transform and multiplies each echo by the Fourier Transform of each of the other aspects of interest. If the processor aboard ship has a pre existing map of marine bottom generated earlier by a survey in which a like sonar produced echo data recorded at the same aspects with the echoes at each aspect multiplied by the frequency domain point spread functions at each of the other aspects then an echo returned from the same object will have the same signature regardless of aspect. If for example one wishes to establish ship s position sonar scans and compares preferably by correlation its echoes to echoes in the above described pre existing sonar map to establish as a match. Because the echoes in the map and those generated by sonar are aspect independent an echo from patch in the map will correlate strongly with an echo from patch detected at sonar whether or not sonar and the survey that generated the map scanned patch from the same aspect. A strong correlation indicates a match identifying ship s location with respect to patch which presumably would be a feature of known position thus identifying ship s location absolutely.

Instead of transforming echoes and point spread functions to and from the frequency domain and multiplying as above described one could instead convolve the signals echoes and point spread functions with one another although this is much more computationally involved and correspondingly less efficient.

In practice a large range of sensors could advantageously use the foregoing scheme for example nearfield real aperture sonars or radars synthetic aperture sonars or radars or coherent near aperture sensors using other modalities.

Likewise a large range of vehicles could advantageously use the foregoing scheme for example autonomous underwater vehicles AUVs or submarines or other submersibles. So too could unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs or airplanes helicopters or spacecraft with radars like that currently on the Space Shuttle or satellites.

The invention has been described in what is considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments. It is recognized however that obvious modifications to the embodiments may occur to those with skill in this art. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be discerned from reference to the appended claims wherein 

