---

title: Systems and methods for electronic device point-of-sale activation
abstract: The present invention is directed to systems and methods of activating an electronic device at a point-of-sale (POS). The device may be identified by an indicia and activation may occur following purchase of the device. The method may include the steps of receiving at a central processor from the POS the indicia identifying the device purchased at the POS; enabling by the central processor a feature or functionality of the device or use of the device; and conveying to the device information material to the feature, functionality, or use. The system may include a central processor that activates the device. The central processor may include various interfaces with the POS, provider, and device, as well as a database with records related to the device and an activation processor for determining if activation is appropriate, activating the device, and sending information material to the feature, functionality, or use to the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655309&OS=08655309&RS=08655309
owner: e2interactive, Inc.
number: 08655309
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100517
---
This application is a continuation in part application from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 778 338 filed on Feb. 17 2004 which relies upon U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 519 629 filed on Nov. 14 2003 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention is generally directed to activating electronic devices at a point of sale POS . Specifically the present invention is directed to activating an electronic device at a POS following the purchase of the electronic device wherein all information necessary for such activation is provided at the point of sale and the customer receives a communication with additional material information after the purchase and activation.

Electronic devices such as mobile communications devices personal digital assistances PDAs music players for example mp3 players may be sold by various retail merchants. Many of these electronic devices are inactive or unusable until they are activated by some party. The party activating the electronic device may be the merchant a provider of goods or services associated with the electronic device for example in the case of a mobile telephone a telecommunications carrier or a party that maintains an account associated with the electronic device for example in the case of a satellite radio Sirius XM .

Activation generally requires at least two 2 steps first a communication between the POS and the party activating the electronic device identifying the communication device and second a communication between the user of the device and the associated provider of goods or services or account provider. The first step is generally an identification of the electronic device while the second step typically involves the collection of various data from the user. The merchant and the provider of goods or services or account provider typically rely upon existing infrastructure to support such activation.

Accordingly such activation process can be time consuming and inconvenient. Therefore there is a need to provide an activation process for electronic devices that is secure theft resistant and incorporates all activation steps and processes into a single transaction. Additionally there is a need for an activation process that is convenient to a user of an electronic device wherein any identification information of the user is collected at the time of sale and no additional communications with any other party are necessary.

Aspects of the invention may include a method of activating an electronic device at a point of sale the electronic device identified by a unique indicia and the activation occurring following a purchase of the electronic device in a purchase transaction the method comprising receiving at a central processor from the point of sale the indicia identifying the electronic device purchased at the point of sale enabling by the central processor a feature of the electronic device a functionality of the electronic device or use of the electronic device conveying from the central processor to the electronic device an activation confirmation and information material to the feature functionality or use of the electronic device.

Other aspects of the invention may include a method of activating an electronic device at a point of sale the electronic device identified by a unique indicia and the activation occurring following a purchase of the electronic device in a purchase transaction the method facilitated between a point of sale a central processor and a provider of goods or services the method comprising receiving at a central processor from the point of sale the indicia identifying the electronic device purchased at the point of sale and information sufficient to identify the point of sale determining by the central processor whether the indicia is valid and identifies an non activated electronic device whether the point of sale is authorized to request activation of the electronic device upon a positive determination that the indicia is valid and the point of sale is authorized communicating with the provider in order to enable a feature of the electronic device a functionality of the electronic device or use of the electronic device conveying to the electronic device an activation confirmation and information material to the feature functionality or use of the electronic device.

Other aspects of the invention may include a central processor for activating an electronic device at a point of sale the electronic device identified by a unique indicia and the activation occurring following a purchase of the electronic device from at the point of sale the central processor comprising a point of sale communication interface that provides selectable communication between the central processor and the point of sale the point of sale interface configured to receive from the point of sale the indicia identifying the electronic device and information sufficient to identify the point of sale a provider communication interface that provides selectable communication between the central processor and the provider of goods or services the provider interface configured to transact communication with the provider regarding a status of the electronic device a electronic device communication interface that provides selectable communication between the central processor and the electronic device the electronic device interface configured to send to the electronic device following activation of the electronic device information material to the electronic device a database comprising a record for each electronic device the record comprising the indicia identifying the electronic device a status of the electronic device information sufficient to identify any point of sales that are authorized to request activation of the electronic device and information sufficient to identify the provider associated with the electronic device and an activation processor configured to determine whether the indicia is valid and identifies an electronic device with an inactive status determine whether the point of sale sending the activation request is authorized to request activation of the electronic device determine the provider associated with the electronic device and enable communication with the provider regarding the status of the electronic device convey to the electronic device information material to a feature functionality or use of the electronic device.

These and other aspects will become apparent from the following description of the invention taken in conjunction with the following drawings although variations and modifications may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the invention.

Before any embodiment of the invention is explained in detail it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangements of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The present invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or being carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

The matters exemplified in this description are provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various exemplary embodiments disclosed with reference to the accompanying figures. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the exemplary embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. Descriptions of well known functions and constructions are omitted for clarity and conciseness. Moreover as used herein the singular may be interpreted in the plural and alternately any term in the plural may be interpreted to be in the singular. Reference figures preceded with S e.g. S indicates a step.

With reference to a method for activating an electronic device an accordance with some embodiments of the invention will now be discussed. In general a method may comprise the selection of an electronic device by a customer and the customer bringing the electronic device to a POS at S information needed to active the device and or open a necessary or associated account may be collected at the POS at S the information collected in S may be sent to the party activating the electronic device at S information material to the electronic device may be sent to the electronic device from at step S and the device may be activated and ready for use at S.

Note that the POS may be any type of device or location where an electronic purchase transaction occurs. For example the POS in S may be a typical POS device such as a terminal or register a merchant a merchant location a retail location associated with a specific provider of goods or services a kiosk or a vending machine. The POS may be configured with a reading mechanism for reading a printed or encoded indicia from the electronic device or its packaging. Alternatively or in addition the POS may be configured for manual entry of the indicia. In cases of online or telephone purchases the POS may be considered to be the electronic device which transacts that actual sale of the electronic device. As used herein the term location does not necessarily refer to a unique geographic location. It is instead a way of describing a particular group of POSs that are typically but not necessarily located in a particular geographic location e.g. a merchant store .

In general each electronic device may be identified by a unique indicia. This indicia may be located on the electronic device itself or on packaging of the electronic device. The indicia may be any alpha numeric or alphanumeric series of numbers and or letters or may be a series of symbols or characters. In some embodiments the indicia may comprise an electronic serial number ESN an international mobile equipment identity number IMEI a number associated with a subscriber information module SIM card or any other indicia that uniquely identifies the electronic device.

The indicia may be present on the device or packaging in human readable and or machine readable format. For example the indicia may be present in text a bar code either a one dimensional bar code a series of lines or a two dimensional bar code an encoded grid a magnetic stripe a radio frequency identification RFID tag or any other human readable or machine readable representation.

At S information needed to activate the device and or open a necessary or associated account may be collected. This information may include a unique indicia identifying the specific electronic device purchased by the customer information identifying an associated provider of goods or services payment or credit information of the customer or identification information of the customer. This information may also include identification information of the POS merchant merchant location or network over which the activation request is transmitted.

In some circumstances desired information may be conveyed from the customer to the POS at S. For example a customer may purchase a new communication device at a POS but desire that the new communication device be assigned the same telephone number that the customer previously used. In this circumstance along with the other information sent at S desired identification information or access numbers may be sent.

The unique indicia that identifies the electronic device may be collected in a manner consistent with the format in which the unique indicia is stored on the device or packaging. For example if the unique indicia is stored as a bar code this bar code may be scanned by a bar code reader at the POS. If the unique indicia is stored as a magnetic stripe this magnetic stripe by may be read by a magnetic stripe reader at the POS. If the unique indicia is stored on an RFID tag the RFID tag may be read by an RFID interrogator at the POS. If the unique indicia is human readable this information may be entered into the POS by either the customer or by a merchant employee.

Information identifying an associated provider of goods or services may be located in a separate indicia on the electronic device or packaging or may comprise an informative segment of the unique indicia identifying the electronic device. For example a mobile telephone may be identified by the unique indicia VZ12345XYZ in which the segment VZ may identify an associated provider of goods or services.

Information regarding payment or credit information of the customer may comprise a credit card account number bank account number or other financial account number of the customer. This information may be collected for example by the customer swiping his or her credit card debit card or bank card at the POS or providing the identifying information on the customer s credit card debit card or bank card to the POS in another manner.

Information regarding payment may also comprise a confirmation that payment has been received. For example verification of payment actually received either in cash from the customer approved by a credit card company or transferred and received from a bank or financial account may be necessary before activation. In some circumstances an electronic device may remain inactive after a customer has purchased the device in a purchase transaction until verification of the receipt of funds is confirmed. If this verification is not received in a timely fashion the electronic device may be subsequently deactivated. Additionally if an electronic device is stolen or damaged or is otherwise not eligible for sale to a customer the database record corresponding to the electronic device to reflect that the electronic device has been cancelled and may not be permitted to be activated.

In some embodiments of the present invention there may be an assumption that the purchase transaction of the electronic device will be properly completed. In this manner an electronic device may be activated before funds have cleared but the electronic device may be subsequently deactivated if the proper funds are not actually received.

Identification information of the customer may also be collected at the POS. This information may comprise the customer s name and or address. In some embodiments all identification information may be collected at the POS by the POS receiving some type of governmental identification of the customer. For example the POS may receive via a bar code reader or a magnetic stripe reader a driver s license of the customer or a passport of the customer. Alternatively the customer s social security number date of birth or other identifying information may be keyed into the POS by the customer or by an employee of the merchant.

As noted above in some embodiments of the present invention the customer may provide desired identification information for the electronic device. For example if the electronic device has communication capabilities e.g. a mobile telephone the customer may provide a desired access number address or telephone number. As prepaid electronic devices become more ubiquitous the ability to swap devices while maintaining the same contact information for family friends colleagues and other informational exchanges becomes more important.

Identification information of the POS merchant merchant location or network over which the activation request may also be transmitted. This information may be used to verify that the requesting POS terminal merchant or merchant location is authorized to activate the electronic device. Systems and methods for such verification may be found in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 655 828 filed on Sep. 5 2003 and published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20050051619 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As used herein identification information of the POS merchant merchant location or network means information sufficient to distinguish a particular POS merchant location or network from other POSs merchants locations or networks. Such identification information may include by way of example only an electronic signature or a unique identification code. The identification information may alternatively be a combination of terminal and location or retailer information. For example a POS may have assigned to it an identification code that is unique only for a particular location or retailer but when provided in combination with a location or retailer code uniquely identifies the POS. The identification information may be transmitted along with all transaction requests.

Note that multiple identifiers may be input at the POS. For example a UPC code may be input as well as an ESN IMEI SIM or other identifier. The UPC may input for merchant inventory purposes while the ESN or other indicia may be input for purposes of electronic device activation.

At S the information collected is sent to the party activating the electronic device. This party may be a provider of goods or services for example a telecommunications carrier such as Verizon or a provider of digital content such as Apple or a third party that may assume the risk for improper or illegitimate activations. For example an intermediate party may exist between a merchant and a provider of goods or services. This intermediate party may process the activations and may shoulder the risk of improper or illegitimate activations. In this manner the merchant may be encouraged to carry the electronic devices since its liability is limited. Similarly the provider may be encouraged to distribute associated electronic devices since its liability is also limited. If the POS is a kiosk or vending machine the party controlling the kiosk or vending machine may receive the information collected at S.

Note that the information collected in S may be sent to the party activating the electronic device in a variety of manners for example over any network such as a telephone network a credit or debit card network the Internet an intranet a host to host network and any other type of communication network or connection.

As S information material to the electronic device may be sent to the electronic device. For example if the electronic device is a mobile telephone the assigned telephone number of the mobile telephone may be sent to the mobile telephone. If the customer provided a specifically requested assigned telephone number a confirmation or denial of the request may be conveyed.

Other information material to the electronic device may include log on or password information access information contact information or identification information. This information may also include but is not limited to information regarding an associated account needed by the device for example in the case of a digital reader account information related to the Kindle Nook or iPad. This information may be sent to the electronic device in any manner including but not limited to via a telephone call a short message system SMS or media message system MMS communication an electronic mail message an applet communication a video file or an audio file.

At S the electronic device is activated and ready for use. The electronic device may be activated for use by itself or on a provider network. Additionally the electronic device may be activated by the creation or activation of an account associated with the electronic device. Activating the electronic device may comprise changing or modifying the electronic device itself a network for example so that the network recognizes the electronic device or a provider of goods or services for example so that the provider recognizes the electronic device .

In some embodiments different functions may be activated at different times. For instance a wireless communication function may be activated at one time and an mp3 playing function may be activated at another time. Each activation may be enabled by a purchase associated with that function. For instance a user may purchase a communications device and then activate the service and the user may later purchase and activate the mp3 player function of the device. Activation of all or part of the functions of a device may also be based on any of the following the number of times a specific program or type of software has been loaded onto a device the number of times the device or a function of the device has been used the length of time a device has been used the time elapsed since purchase of the device the amount of funds in an account associated with the device the activity of an account associated with the device the status of a user account e.g. having an account in good standing the status of a user e.g. with the activation processor or other entity or marital employment or other status personal information of the user and other factors.

It should be noted that the electronic device may be inactive or disabled prior to delivery to the customer. For instance some electronic devices may be hotlined or otherwise disabled at an internal switch. It may be actively or passively disabled. In some embodiments the merchant may disable the electronic device prior to purchase or making the electronic device available for sale. In some embodiments the electronic device may be disabled before it is distributed to the merchant. Disabling of the media device may occur before it is offered to the customer e.g. before the product is placed on the store shelves or otherwise offered to the customer .

In the manner outlined in all information necessary to activate an electronic device purchased from a merchant may be collected in a single step S and information material to the electronic device that the customer needs or should know is provided in a single step S .

It should be noted that in various embodiments different identifiers may be used in the different blocks described herein provided that the different identifiers are associated with a single electronic device. I.e. it is not necessary that the ESN be the single identifier that is used throughout the process. For instance a bar coded number e.g. a number that is mapped to or otherwise associated with a media device identifier in a database may be scanned at the merchant terminal and passed to a processor but the processor may determine the indicia of the electronic device and use this indicia for later processing requests and communications. Also it should be appreciated that the terms indicia and identifier may comprise information associated with the indicia or identifier. In other words an indicia or identifier received by a processor need not be the exact same as the indicia or identifier passed from a POS to activate the electronic device provided that the two identifiers are uniquely associated with the same electronic device.

With reference to a method of activating an electronic device from the perspective of a processor in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed. illustrates a method which comprises four 4 general steps receiving an indicia of the electronic device from a POS at S activating the electronic device at S sending to the electronic device material information at S and ending the transaction at S. also illustrates numerous optional steps which may be included in the method .

Once the indicia identifying the electronic device is received from the POS at S the processor may perform one or more of the steps S S.

At S the processor may determine if the indicia received is valid and represents an unactivated electronic device. The processor may make this determination by referencing a database that comprises records for each electronic device and indicia.

At S the processor may determine if the party requesting activation e.g. the merchant or POS is authorized to request activation of the electronic device. The processor may make this determination by referencing a database that comprises records for each electronic device and indicia as well as information identifying authorized parties for activation. Commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 7 578 439 entitled Value Card PIN Security Method and Device filed on Jun. 19 2007 and issued on Dec. 25 2008 discloses systems and methods for verifying that the party requesting activation for a stored value card is authorized to so request. Similar systems and methods may be utilized. U.S. Pat. No. 7 578 439 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Alternatively at S the processor may determine if the party requesting activation is authorized to so request based on whether the requesting source and or the communications network over which the activation request was transmitted is considered trusted. The processor may make this determination by referencing a database that stores information identifying trusted sources and or trusted communications networks for making activation requests. The processor may determine if the POS submitting an activation request is authorized to do so. This determination may be accomplished by determining whether the information identifying the POS merchant location or network in the request matches an authorized POS merchant location or network associated with the electronic. The association between POS merchant location or network and an electronic device may be established in a variety of forms including by storing the authorized identification information in the device record itself in the database or by storing a link to a separate record. The association may also include an indirect link through a merchant or location identifier. As noted above trusted sources may be identified by POS identifier terminal identifier merchant identifier location identifier via automatic number identification ANI processes IP address or other such identification information.

At S the processor may receive all information necessary to activate the electronic device. In some circumstances in order to activate the electronic device an account associated with the device may be required to be opened. In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention a customer purchasing the electronic device at the POS may submit requested identification information such as a telephone number to be assigned to the electronic device. This requested identification information may be related to a previously owned electronic device of the customer e.g. transferring a telephone number to a newly purchased telephone or may be selected due to vanity or advertising concerns e.g. 1 800 BUY A CAR .

At S the processor may receive an indication from the POS that a valid purchase transaction has been conducted. This indication may include a confirmation that funds were actually received from the customer who purchased the electronic device. At times the electronic device may be given away for example in promotional contexts and in which case the indication would not include a confirmation of value exchange but rather a confirmation that the a valid transaction has occurred.

At S the processor may determine a provider of goods or services associated with the electronic device. As discussed above this determination may be based upon the unique indicia of the electronic device or may be determined based upon the processor accessing a database entry of the electronic device which may list or teach the associated provider. Alternatively the electronic device may not be pre associated with a specific provider but rather the customer may select the specific provider at the POS during the purchase transaction. Accordingly at S the processor may receive information sufficient to identify the provider of goods or services selected by the customer to be associated with the electronic device. In another variation the customer may provide information at the POS regarding ideal or acceptable criteria for a provider or account and based upon such information the processor may determine the most appropriate provider and associate the most appropriate provider of goods or services with the account. For example in circumstances where the electronic device is a mobile telephone the customer may provide information at the POS informing the provider that the majority of anticipated calls on the mobile telephone are international and the customer does not use other features e.g. texting downloads etc. . At S the processor may then apply these criteria to characteristics of various providers and select the provider of goods or services that best fits the customer s needs 

There may be numerous variations to S wherein the processor activates the electronic device. S may comprise the processor accessing the database record of the electronic device and modifying the status from inactive to active. Additional variations though not all are depicted in S S.

In addition to or in lieu of activating the electronic device itself at S the processor may activate a feature or a functionality of the electronic device. For example a user may bring a previously purchased electronic device to a POS and request a purchase of an additional functionality of the electronic device. In one non limiting example a user may bring a previously purchased mobile telephone to a POS and request to purchase streaming video capability. An indicia of the mobile telephone may be collected as discussed above and the requested functionality of the mobile telephone may be activated. A more thorough discussion of activation of a feature or functionality of a media device may be found in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 237 950 filed on Sep. 29 2005 and published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20060217996 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

At S the processor may send an activation notification to a provider of goods or services associated with the electronic device this provider may be pre associated in accordance with S or may be determined by the customer or the processor in accordance with S or S respectively .

At S the electronic device may be activated by opening or activating an account associated with and or needed by the electronic device.

At S the processor may reach into a database maintained by the provider and modify a record related to the electronic device.

At S the processor may modify a record related to the electronic device in a database accessible by the provider though not necessarily maintained and or resident on the provider s platform or systems .

At S the processor may send to the electronic device information material to the electronic device. As noted above this material information may include an assigned telephone number log on or password information access information contact information identification information associated account information. This information may be sent to the electronic device in any manner including but not limited to via a telephone call a short message system SMS or media message system MMS communication an electronic mail message an applet communication a video file or an audio file. Several variations or additional steps are depicted by S S.

At S the processor may additionally pass to the electronic device an activation confirmation. At S the processor may pass to the electronic device an assigned telephone number. At S the information may be information regarding identification of the electronic device or information related to an account associated with the device. At S the information passed may be passed via SMS or MMS messaging. At S the information may be passed via electronic mail instant messaging or social network e.g. FaceBook MySpace messaging. At S the processor may pass the information to the electronic device by way of the POS and the customer. For example information may be sent from the processor back to the POS and printed on a receipt or other documentation for the customer.

It will be understood that in order to practice the methods of the invention as described above it is not necessary that the processors and or the memories of the processing machine be physically located in the same geographical place. That is each of the processors and the memories used in the invention may be located in geographically distinct locations and connected so as to communicate in any suitable manner. Additionally It will be understood that each of the processor and or the memory may be composed of different physical pieces of equipment. Accordingly it is not necessary that a processor be one single piece of equipment in one location and that the memory be another single piece of equipment in another location. That is it is contemplated that the processor may be two pieces of equipment in two different physical locations The two distinct pieces of equipment may be connected in any suitable manner. Additionally the memory may include two or more portions of memory in two or more physical locations.

To explain further processing as described above is performed by various components and various memories. It will be understood however that the processing performed by two distinct components as described above may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single component. Further the processing performed by one distinct component as described above may be performed by two distinct components. In a similar manner the memory storage performed by two distinct memory portions as described above may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single memory portion. Further the memory storage performed by one distinct memory portion as described above may be performed by two memory portions.

Further various technologies may be used to provide communication between the various processors and or memories as well as to allow the processors and or the memories of the invention to communicate with any other entity i.e. so as to obtain further instructions or to access and use remote memory stores for example. Such technologies used to provide such communication might include a network the Internet Intranet Extranet LAN an Ethernet a telecommunications network e.g. a cellular or wireless network or any client server system that provides communication for example. Such communications technologies may use any suitable protocol such as TCP IP UDP or OSI for example.

With reference to a method of activating an electronic device in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention will not be discussed. indicates which party a customer a POS a central processor and a provider of goods or services performs each step in the overall process.

At S the process begins with the customer selecting and presenting to a POS the selected electronic device. S may also be construed to cover the presentment of a previously purchased electronic device at a POS in order to activate an additional feature or functionality of the electronic device. S may also be construed to cover POS variations such as on line shopping where the customer selects an electronic device for purchase or kiosks or vending machines where the electronic devices are effectively enclosed in the POS itself.

At S the POS at the merchant location collects reads or captures a unique indicia identifying the electronic device or the desired additional functionality or feature of the electronic device . At S the POS sends the captured indicia to the central processor . As noted above the POS may also capture additional information such as payment information credit information or customer identification information. POS may pass this information to central processor as well.

At S the central processor may receive the indicia and potentially other information from the POS and at S the central processor may determine if the indicia is valid and identifies an unactivated electronic device or feature or functionality of the electronic device . If the determination is positive at S the central processor may activate the electronic device by sending a communication to a provider of goods or services . For example at S the central processor may send a communication that modifies a database record at the provider s platform for example through an application programming interface API of the provider may send instructions for the provider to modify its database record or may modify a database record accessible by the provider .

At S the provider may partake in the activation communication and may identify the specific electronic device activated. Note that information identifying the electronic device may not be consistent throughout the process steps. For example the electronic device may be identified by indicia VZ12345XYZ at the POS. However this indicia may be specific to the central processor. The provider may identify the electronic device by 12345XYZ or even ZYXWVUT and it may be this second identifier passed from the central processor to the provider. In other words the specific indicia or identifier is not as relevant as specifically identifying the electronic device.

At S the provider may determine information material to the electronic device for example an assigned telephone number of a mobile telephone. At S the provider may send information material to the electronic device to the central processor . Alternatively this information may be sent directly from the provider to the electronic device. At S the central processor may receive the material information. At S the central processor may pass an activation confirmation to the POS and at S the central processor may pass the material information to the electronic device.

At S the POS may receive the activation confirmation from the central processor and at S the POS may pass on such confirmation to the customer and may allow the customer to take custody of the electronic device. At S the customer may receive the information material to the electronic device for example by receiving an SMS MMS electronic mail or instant message on the electronic device itself. At S the activation process terminates.

With reference to an overall system used to activate an electronic device at a POS in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention is depicted. The system generally comprises a POS one or more providers of goods or services . . . an electronic device and a processor . While the POS is depicted as a POS terminal the POS may take the form of any type of POS device location merchant or computer. Similarly while providers of goods or services . . . are depicted identically each provider may provide different goods or services. For example provider may provide telecommunication services provider may provide cable television provider may provide digital radio services and provider may provide various periodicals for electronic readers. Similarly while electronic device is depicted as a mobile communications device telephone or PDA electronic device may take any format including electronic readers video or audio players cameras etc.

As described above the present invention may illustratively be embodied in the form of a processing machine including a computer or computer system for example that includes at least one memory. It is to be appreciated that the set of instructions i.e. the software for example that enables the computer operating system to perform the operations described above may be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium as desired. Further the data that is processed by the set of instructions might also be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium. That is the particular medium i.e. the memory in the processing machine utilized to hold the set of instructions and or the data used in the invention may take on any of a variety of physical forms or transmissions for example. Illustratively the medium may be in the form of paper paper transparencies a compact disk a magnetic stripe a laser card a smart card a processor chip a memory chip a DVD an integrated circuit a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk a flash memory card a magnetic tape a RAM a ROM a PROM a EPROM a wire a cable a fiber communications channel a satellite transmissions or other remote transmission as well as any other medium or source of data that may be read by the processors of the invention.

Further the memory or memories used in the processing machine that implements the invention may be in any of a wide variety of forms to allow the memory to hold instructions data or other information as is desired. Thus the memory might be in the form of a database to hold data. The database might use any desired arrangement of files such as a flat file arrangement or a relational database arrangement for example.

With reference to a processor may comprise a POS communication interface for selective communication with one or more POS devices a provider communication interface for selective communication with one or more providers of goods or services an electronic device communication interface for selective communication with one or more electronic devices an activation processor and a database . Processor may also include a user database or access to a publicly available database of user information .

The POS communication interface may handle all incoming and outbound communications with various POS devices locations or merchants. In some embodiments the POS communication interface may take the form of an interface on a host to host network. Because each POS may have different requirements or system characteristics POS communication interface may collectively identify a plurality of interfaces with different POSs.

The provider communication interface may handle all incoming and outbound communications with the one or more providers of goods or services. Because each provider may have different system requirements e.g. different APIs the provider communication interface may collectively identify a plurality of interfaces with different providers.

The electronic device communication interface may handle all incoming and outbound communications with the one or more electronic devices. Because each electronic device may have different system requirements e.g. a mobile telephone may be SMS capable a PDA may require an electronic mail communication electronic device communication interface may collectively identify a plurality of interfaces with different electronic devices.

Activation processor performs the various determinations necessary to activate an electronic device. Activation processor may be coupled to database and may therefore be able to determine if a received electronic device indicia is valid and unactivated. The activation processor may be able to determine any preassociated providers of goods or service or may receive a selection from the customer or may make a selection based on customer criteria and information. The activation processor may postpone activation until funds are confirmed or may deactivate the electronic device by way of electronic device communication interface if funds are later deemed inadequate. The activation processor may collect by way of the POS communication interface additional information required to activate the electronic device.

Database may include information identifying each electronic device and its relevant details. Database is depicted in greater detail in and is discussed in greater detail below.

User database or access to a publicly available database of user information is an optional aspect of processor . At times customer identification information may be needed to activate an electronic device. As discussed above this information may be provided by way of scanning or reading a customer s drivers license or passport or entering the customer social security number. Based upon a customer s drivers license number passport number or social security number the processor may access a publicly available database to provide additional information such as name address date of birth etc.

For example record shows an electronic device A identified by indicia 12345 which may be activated by POS terminal A and which is pre associated with provider X. Record shows electronic device B identified by indicia 9876 which may be activated by merchant and therefore any POS devices that are operated by merchant and which is pre associated with provider Y. Record shows electronic device C identified by indicia A1B2C3 which may be activated by location and therefore any merchants and POS devices that are present at location and with provider Z. Record shows electronic device D identified by indicia XYZ005 which may be activated by POS devices A B C or D and for which the provider is selectable. Finally Record shows electronic device E identified by indicia 007SNS which may be activate by merchants A D or Z for example merchants under one corporate umbrella such as Gap Old Navy and Banana Republic and for which the provider is selectable. These records may be automatically propagated using an API or may be manually entered by an administrator or by a merchant via an interface available over the Internet.

Any level of the hierarchy may be authorized to request activation of an electronic device. For example only specific POS may be authorized for example only POS A or POS A B. Or locations may be authorized such as location D and E which in turn comprise POS H N. Merchants may be authorized such as level three merchant A which in turn comprises locations A B and POS B G. Any authorized point in the hierarchy may authorize the merchants locations or POS falling beneath it. If level one merchant is authorized then all level 2 merchant level 3 merchants locations and POS beneath level one merchant may be considered authorized.

It will be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention shown and described herein are exemplary only. Numerous variations changes substitutions and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly it is intended that all subject matter described herein and shown in the accompanying drawings be regarded as illustrative only and not in a limiting sense and that the scope of the invention will be solely determined by the appended claims.

