---

title: Electroluminescent diode sensor
abstract: A senor uses a transduction mechanism of attenuating electroluminescence. Luminescence from a light emitting diode is attenuated as a consequence of direct interaction of an analyte and a electroluminescent material, An electroluminescent diode sensor (EDS) is fabricated in a way that allows the electroluminescent material in the diode to be exposed to gaseous, liquid or solid sample(s) which may affect the luminescence intensity of the diode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08435797&OS=08435797&RS=08435797
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08435797
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101207
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

This invention relates in general to sensing elements used in a sensor system and more specifically to electroluminescent diode sensors.

An electroluminescent diode sensor EDS can be used as a sensor. When energy is absorbed by a conjugated polymer electrons are promoted from the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO to the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital LUMO creating an excited state. The excited electron can relax down to the HOMO releasing a photon which is called a radiative process. Or the electron can relax down to the HOMO by a process that does not emit light a non radiative process.

A class of compounds that have the chemical characteristics to participate in the electron transfer reaction are nitroaromatic compounds. Nitroaromatic compounds include the explosives 2 4 6 trinitrotoluene TNT and dinitrotoluene DNT which make an electroluminescent diode sensor EDS a useful tool for sensing these explosive compounds. EDS can respond to chemicals that have such characteristics which could make it useful as a sensor even for chemicals other than nitroaromatics 

In one aspect an electroluminescent sensor system is disclosed. An exemplary electroluminescent sensor system comprises an electroluminescent diode sensing element wherein said electroluminescent diode sensing element emits electroluminescent light proximate to a sample of explosive compound photodetector configured to detect electroluminescent light resulting from said electroluminescent diode sensing element proximate to a sample of explosive compound and output a detection signal a computer to process a detection signal from said photodetector and a power supply to power at least said electroluminescent diode sensing element. Said detector detects electroluminescent light resulting from said electroluminescent diode sensing element proximate to a sample of explosive compound for said computer to process said detection signal and determine the presence of nitroaromatic molecules from any one of gaseous liquid or solid samples which may affect the luminescence intensity of the electroluminescent diode sensing element.

In another aspect a method of sensing molecules from an explosive sample is disclosed. An exemplary method can be based on a configured electroluminescent diode sensor the method comprising applying a voltage from a power supply to the electroluminescent diode sensor to generate a radiation detecting said radiation by a photodetector fur recording of the photodetector signal as a function of time by a computer and processing said photodetector signal by the computer to monitor said photodetector signal and determine whether there has been an attenuation in an emitted light intensity sufficient to indicate the presence of nitroaromatic explosive molecules from any one of gaseous liquid or solid samples which may affect the luminescence intensity of the diode sensor.

Yet in another aspect an electroluminescent diode sensor device is disclosed. An exemplary diode sensor device comprises a clear polyethylene terephthalate substrate an indium tin oxide layer coating on said substrate a poly 3 4 ethylenedioythiophene poly styrene sulfonate layer a semiconducting polymer layer an aluminum layer a cathode connection to a power supply and an anode connection to said power supply. A single layer of material of said electroluminescent diode sensor can serve as a radiation emitter and as a sensing material.

The detailed description of the various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure can be better understood from the following disclosure.

An electroluminescent diode sensor EDS can be configured as an explosive sensor device. An EDS can be configured as a sensor device to receive an electrical current applied to excite electrons in a conjugated polymer into an excited state. In an unperturbed system the EDS device emits light When a molecule that has the proper redox potential and chemical properties comes in contact with the polymer in its excited state an electron transfer reaction happens causing the excited electrons to decay in a non radiative process. This leads to a reduction in the amount of light that the sensor is generating.

A class of compounds that have the chemical characteristics to participate in the electron transfer reaction are nitroaromatic compounds. Nitroaromatic compounds include the explosives 2 4 6 trinitrotoluene TNT and dinitrotoluene DNT which make the EDS a useful tool for sensing these explosive compounds. Additionally such an exemplary EDS device can show a response to any chemicals that have the characteristics which could make it useful as a sensor device even for compounds other than nitroaromatics.

An electroluminescent diode sensor EDS can offer advantages when compared to other emission attenuation type explosive sensors. Advantages can be realized in the size of the sensor and the amount of information that can be obtained from its use.

For example by exciting the sensing material electrically instead of optically the number of components in the sensor can be reduced. A reduced number of components can lead to a smaller and less complex sensor.

Second an array of EDS can be formed using structurally different sensing materials on a chemical level. Varying responses from the different sensors can be used to mimic olfaction. Third an emission spectrum of an EDS can be monitored and perturbations across it can be used to extract information about the attenuation species.

SENSOR SYSTEM Referring now to shows an exemplary embodiment of an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED configured as a sensing element in a sensor system. As exemplified shows an exemplary configuration of said sensor system showing a electroluminescent diode sensor EDS b light generated by the EDS c heater d photodetector e power supply f nitroaromatic explosive e.g. trinitrotoluene g TNT molecules and h computer.

As exemplified such a configured sensor system can function in this manner The power supply e applies a voltage to the electroluminescent diode sensor EDS a causing it to generate radiation b . The radiation is monitored by a photodetector d and a plot of the photodetector signal is recorded as a function of time on the computer h . The presence of a nitroaromatic based explosive e.g. TNT f generates vapor phase TNT molecules g which migrate to the sensing face of the EDS. The EDS and the TNT molecules then participate in an electron transfer reaction causing the amount of light generated by the EDS to decrease. When the computer monitors EDS signal vs. time attenuations in emitted light intensity indicate the presence of nitroaromatic explosive molecules e.g. TNT . A heater c provides heat to the EDS device which increases the kinetics of TNT adsorption and desorption onto the sensing face of the EDS.

SENSING METHOD In another aspect a method for electroluminescent diode sensing is disclosed Method Such an exemplary EDS can be used to effect an electron transfer reaction between a nitroaromatic compound and a semiconducting polymer in an excited state due to the direct injection of an electron from an electrode. This reaction is used as the transduction mechanism for an explosive sensor. The two reactants in this reaction are an electron withdrawing compound trinitrotoluene and a semiconducting polymer poly 2 5 bisoctyl 1 4 phenylenevinylene in an excited state resulting from direct injection of an electron from a metallic cathode Aluminum . The reaction is monitored by the change in radiation emitted from the polymer.

An exemplary reaction method as follows and is described in the energy level diagrams and . For example shows an exemplary energy level diagram segmented by h aluminum i poly 2 5 bisoctyl 1 4 phenylenevinylene j electrons k holes l indium tin oxide anode m poly 3 4 ethylenedioythiaphene poly styrene sulfonate .

In another aspect. shows an exemplary energy level diagram segmented by h aluminum i poly 2 5 bisoctyl 1 4 phenylenevinylene j electrons k holes l indium tin oxide anode m poly 3 4 ethylenedioythiophene poly styrene sulfonate n trinitrotoluene o electron transfer from LUMO of i to n p electron transfer from n to HOMO of i.

To generate radiation light in the semiconducting polymer Poly 2 5 bisoctyl 1 4 phenylenevinylene i has electrons j injected from a Aluminum cathode h into the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital LUMO of the polymer holes k are injected from an Indium tin oxide anode l to a poly 3 4 ethylenedioythiophene poly styrene sulfonate hole injecting layer m to the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO of the polymer i . Electrons in the LUMO of the polymer fall into the holes in the HOMO of the polymer and the change in energy generates radiation hv . This is how OLEDs function and how the EDS functions under atmospheric conditions in the absence of nitroaromatic explosive.

The sensing reaction occurs when nitroaromatic explosives molecules e.g. TNT n come in contact with the polymer i . The directly injected electron j is transferred o from the LUMO of the polymer to the trinitrotoluene and then back p to the HOMO of the polymer. The reaction is monitored by a computer controlled photodetector that displays a plot of intensity of radiation emitted by the semiconducting polymer versus time. Attenuations in the emitted radiation indicate occurrence of this electron transfer reaction and hence the presence of nitroaromatic explosives such as TNT.

SENSOR DIODE shows an exemplary etectroluminescent diode sensor EDS wherein an exemplary diode can be configured based on q polyethylene terephthalate r Indium tin oxide s poly 3 4 ethylenedioythiophene poly styrene sulfonate t poly 2 5 bisoctyl 1 4 phenylenevinylene u aluminum v cathode connection w anode connection. Such an exemplary electroluminescent diode sensor EDS can demonstrate the use of a single material as a radiation emitter and as a sensing material. As exemplified such an EDS sensor diode can use a semiconducting polymer material poly 2 5 bisoctyl 1 4 phenylenevinylene to generate radiation in an electroluminescent diode device while the same material is simultaneously used as a sensing material for nitroaromatic explosives The EDS is constructed as seen in . On a clear polyethylene terephthalate PET q substrate coated with Indium tin oxide ITO r to 35 cm surface resistivity a 40 nm thick layer of Poly 3 4 ethylenedioythiophene poly styrene sulfonate PEDOT PSS s is coated and covered by a 150 nm thick layer of poly 2 5 bisoctyl 1 4 phenyleneyinylene t on which a 200 nm thick layer of aluminum u is deposited.

ELECTROLUMINESCENT DETECTION When electrical contacts are made on the aluminum v and ITO w surfaces an applied voltage of greater that 3V causes the poly 2 5 bisoctyl 1 4 phenylenevinylene to emit radiation centered at 616 nm. This composite can also act as a sensing material by participating in an electron transfer reaction with electron withdrawing nitroaromatic explosive compounds such as trinitrotoluene.

Such an electron transfer reaction provides a pathway for non radiative decay of the excited state electron. Thus decreases in the emitted radiation indicate the presence of reactive species such as trinitrotoluene.

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

