---

title: Non-majority MQCA magnetic logic gates and arrays based on misaligned magnetic islands
abstract: A non-majority magnetic logic gate device for use in constructing compact and power efficient logical magnetic arrays is presented. The non-majority magnetic logic gate device includes a substrate, symmetrically aligned magnetic islands (SAMIs), at least one misaligned magnetic island (MAMI), magnetic field inputs (MFIs), and at least one magnetic field output (MFO). The SAMIs and MAMI are electrically isolated from each other but are magnetically coupled to one another through their respective magnetic fringe fields. The MAMI is geometrically and/or angularly configured to exhibit a magnetization ground state bias which is dependent upon which direction the applied magnetic clock field is swept. Non-majority logic gates can be made from layouts containing the SAMIs and the MAMI which contain a smaller number of components as comparable majority logic gate layouts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08058906&OS=08058906&RS=08058906
owner: The University of Notre Dame Du Lac
number: 08058906
owner_city: Notre Dame
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100616
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Applications 61 268 803 and 61 243 246 which were respectively filed on Jun. 16 2009 and on Sep. 17 2009 and which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

This invention was funded at least in part with a government grant from the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST pursuant to contract number 70NANB7H6168. This invention was also funded at least in part with a government support under Grant No. CCF 0621990 entitled Nano Applications Architectures and Circuit Design for Nano scale Magnetic Logic Devices awarded by the National Science Foundation NSF . Accordingly the United States government may therefore have certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to magnetic quantum dot cellular automata more particular to non majority magnetic logic gates and arrays based on misaligned magnetic islands.

Nanomagnetic logic NML also known as Magnetic Quantum Dot Cellular Automata MQCA consists of using nanomagnetic islands arranged in such a way that allows logic functions to be performed by using NML circuits. Wires gates and inverters have already been demonstrated to function at room temperature. It is estimated that if 10magnets switch at 10times second then the magnets would only dissipate about 0.1 W of power. These nanomagnet based devices can remain non volatile provided that their size shape remains above the superparamagnetic limit which means that these nanomagnets devices can be used to realize both logic and memory devices. If non volatility can be sacrificed research suggests that binary state in nanomagnets with feature sizes below the superparamagnetic limit should also be stable for around 1 millisecond. This retention time is sufficient to perform logic operations. Device switching times could also be reduced.

The fundamental building blocks for NML circuits can i be made with standard lithographic techniques and ii have all been experimentally demonstrated at room temperature. Wires that exhibit ferromagnetically ordering can be formed by orienting rectangular magnets next to each other so that their magnetic poles are within a commonly shared axis as shown in the . Likewise anti ferromagnetically coupled bit wires can be formed by orienting rectangular magnets next to each other so that their magnetic poles are parallel to each other and not within a commonly shared axis as shown in 

Because the energy difference between magnetization binary states in an NML device can be hundreds of kT at room temperature an applied magnetic clock is needed to facilitate the re evaluation of an NML ensemble subsequent to when input states are changed. The applied magnetic clock provides the necessary energy that modulates the barrier between magnetization states so that fringing fields from individual magnets can quickly bias neighboring magnets into their respective thermodynamically favorable magnetization state that corresponds to the logically correct output states associated with the input s . This reordering of magnetization states is guided by either antiferromagnetic or ferromagnetic coupling which is dependent upon the relative positions of how the particularly adjacent magnets are geometrically arranged.

For example reordering of magnetization states in an antiferromagnetic coupled horizontal line would proceed as shown in FIG. to FIG. where just 3 devices are shown for simplicity . After the field of the left most magnet is externally driven by an Input not shown to flip its magnetic state the applied magnetic clock field H is then subsequently imposed on all of the magnets e.g. in an antiferromagnetically ordered line which drives the internal magnetic fields sideways arrows of the center and right most magnets to be biased along their hard shorter axes as shown in the transition from FIG. to FIG. . Note that the internal magnetic field up arrow of the left most magnet is unaffected by the applied magnetic clock field H because it remains biased along its easy long axis driven by the continued imposition of the external magnetic field at the Input not shown . As a result of imposing the applied magnetic clock field which drives the internal magnetic fields of the center and right most magnets pointed towards their hard axes i.e. nullify the energetic barriers of the center and right most magnets needed to reach their new energetically favorable magnetization state are considerably lowered. Flux from neighboring magnets can then efficiently bias these magnets into a new magnetically stable state FIG. when the applied magnetic clock field H is removed.

It is known that fringing field based interactions between single domain magnets with nanometer feature sizes can be used as a driving force to perform Boolean logic operations. With NML logic functionality results from a complex interplay of shape anisotropy and magnet to magnet coupling. Magnet shape anisotropy i.e. an elongated easy axis creates a bi stable system and binary values 1 0 can be arbitrarily assigned to different magnetization directions. For many magnet shapes the easy axis states are energetically equivalent for a magnet in isolation. When considering magnet ensembles in clocked systems fringing fields from individual devices can set the state of a neighboring device when that device is in a metastable logic state. It is known that these fringing field interactions can be used to implement majority voting gates and in principle implement any Boolean function.

To date all known proposals for Boolean logic designs using NML architecture have either been majority gate based or assumed magnets with a uniform shape. Majority gates can be transformed into AND OR or NAND NOR gates and can be used to implement any Boolean function as for AND OR gates inversion is possible with an antiferromagnetically ordered wire with an odd number of devices . One way of transforming a majority gate into either a AND OR or NAND NOR gate configuration is to permanently fix one of the inputs to a logic 0 or logic 1. Thus Boolean logic can be realized using majority voting gates by arbitrarily setting one input of a majority gate to a logic 0 or 1 to transform the gate to a two input AND OR gate. However reducing a clocked majority gate to a 2 input AND OR gate is non trivial. The fixed held input must be designed such that it does not impede the switching of the compute magnet e.g. by providing too strong of a bias . If this does happen a stuck at fault will ensue as the two other inputs will not be able to drive the gate to a logically correct state.

Some advantages of NML designs include high scalability with ultra low active power and essentially zero leakage power. NML are also thought to be inherently radiation resistant. To date known NML designs have utilized elementary symmetrical shapes i.e. rectangular and ellipsoid devices have been used for majority gate logic designs.

As depicted in majority logic gates MLG have been used as a basis to demonstrate that magnetic quantum dot cellular automata MQCA can be used to successfully implement various Boolean logic functions. Magnetic logic manipulates spin polarized electrons in the magnetic material where information can be arbitrarily correlated with either spin up or spin down electrons. However not all Boolean functions map well to majority voting gates i.e. XOR . More specifically an XOR gate constructed from majority gate based AND OR logic will likely require a relatively large footprint.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular and thereof one envisioned example of the non majority magnetic logic gate device such as those shown in comprises a substrate a plurality of symmetrically aligned magnetic islands SAMIs a misaligned magnetic island MAMI a plurality of magnetic field inputs MFIs and at least one magnetic field output MFO . The SAMIs are disposed on the substrate so that most of the SAMIs are disposed either substantially perpendicular or substantially in parallel relative to a sweeping direction of an applied magnetic clock field and such that the applied magnetic clock field is applied substantially parallel or perpendicular to a plane of the substrate . Most of the SAMIs have lengths longer than their widths which respectively define easy and hard magnetic axes. Most of the SAMIs are electrically isolated from each other. Of those SAMIs that are symmetrically aligned lengthwise side by side next to each other tend towards exhibiting antiferromagnetic coupling with each other. Of those SAMIs that are symmetrically aligned widthwise side by side next to each other tend towards exhibiting ferromagnetic coupling with each other. The MAMI is also disposed on the substrate and the MAMI also has a length longer than a width that respectively define easy and hard magnetic axes. The MAMI is electrically isolated from the SAMIs but the MAMI is magnetically coupled and sandwiched in between two SAMIs . The MAMI is configured to exhibit a magnetization ground state bias which is dependent upon the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field . The MFIs are disposed on the substrate and are magnetically coupled to some of the SAMIs . The MFO is disposed on the substrate and magnetically coupled to the MAMI .

The clocking of the applied magnetic clock field may be at any frequency. Some envisioned clocking frequencies of that the applied magnetic clock field are between 1 Hz to about 1 GHz.

The strength of the applied magnetic clock field is designed to be sufficiently strong to rotate magnetization moments of the SAMIs and the MAMI from the easy axes to the hard axes into a neutral logic state such that fringing fields from the neighbor SAMI MAMI can set a given device into a logically correct state.

The distances between adjacent SAMIs and the MAMI disposed on the substrate should be designed so that magnetic flux lines are sufficiently strong enough to magnetically influence each other.

Although all of the SAMIs do not necessarily have to be along the plane of the substrate one envisioned configuration is that all of the SAMIs are disposed along the plane of the substrate .

Although all of the SAMIs do not necessarily have to be disposed perpendicular or parallel to the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field one envisioned configuration is that all of the SAMIs are disposed either substantially perpendicular or substantially in parallel relative to the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field .

Although all of the SAMIs do not necessarily have lengths longer than their respective widths some SAMIs may even have circular shapes. One envisioned configuration is that all of the SAMIs have lengths longer than their respective widths. Another envisioned geometric configuration is that some of the SAMIs have elongated rectangular shapes.

The MAMI may be any geometrically and or angularly misaligned magnetic island 2 or 3 dimensional configuration in which some of 2 dimensional configurations are depicted in . One envisioned geometric configuration of the MAMI is that it has a slant edged rectangular shape which is substantially lined up parallel and or perpendicular to the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field . Another envisioned configuration is that the MAMI has an elongated rectangular shape i.e. symmetrical in geometry that is aligned so that it is not parallel and not perpendicular i.e. angularly misaligned to the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field .

One mode of the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field is that it is left to right with respect to the substrate . Another sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field is right to left with respect to the substrate .

An envisioned orientation of the applied magnetic clock field is that it is applied substantially parallel to the plane of the substrate . Another envisioned orientation of the applied magnetic clock field is that it is applied substantially perpendicular to the plane of the substrate .

An envisioned distributive arrangement of the SAMIs is that some of the SAMIs are aligned to form antiferromagnetic coupled binary wires . Still another envisioned distributive arrangement of the SAMIs is that some of the SAMIs are aligned to form ferromagnetic coupled binary wires .

An envisioned arrangement of the MAMI sandwiched between two SAMIs is that it comprises an OR gate as shown in and . Yet another envisioned arrangement of the MAMI sandwiched between two SAMIs is that it comprises an AND gate as shown in and . Still another envisioned arrangement of the MAMI sandwiched between two SAMIs is that it comprises a NAND gate as shown in . Still yet another envisioned arrangement of the MAMI sandwiched between two SAMIs is that it comprises a NOR gate as shown in . Accordingly the device may comprise any number of logic functions which can include AND OR NAND NOR and even comprise a logical memory like a bit of MRAM.

A envisioned arrangement of the MAMI sandwiched between two SAMIs is that they are all together substantially aligned perpendicular to the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field . Still another envisioned arrangement of the MAMI sandwiched between two SAMIs is that they are all together aligned substantially in parallel with respect to the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field .

An envisioned example of the device is that the MAMIs are magnetically coupled and sandwiched between pairs of SAMIs to form an XOR gate as shown in .

The compositional makeup of the SAMIs and MAMIs may be made of any known material so long as they exhibit magnetic properties. For example it is envisioned that the SAMIs and the MAMI can be composed of magnetic material selected from the group consisting of a rare earth metal ferrites hipernom hipernik HyMu 80 monimax Mo permalloy nilomag remalloy sanbold supermumetal ultraperm vicalloy 78 Permalloy permalloy supermalloy AlNiCo AlSiFe sendust Co CoFe CoFeB CoFeV supermendur CoFeCr hiperco CoPt CoZrTa CoFe permendur CuZn FeN FeO FeAlN FeTaN NiFe permalloy NiFeMo supermalloy NiFe supermalloy NiFeCuCr mumetal NiFeCo MnZn and combinations thereof.

The non majority magnetic logic gate device may also further comprise a plurality of MAMIs in which the MAMIs are magnetically coupled and sandwiched between corresponding respective pairs of SAMIs .

The non majority magnetic logic gate device may also further comprise a plurality of MFOs magnetically coupled to the MAMIs . It is important to note that the MFOs do not necessarily have to be immediately adjacent to the MAMIs . That is either antiferromagnetic or ferromagnetic coupled binary wire as shown in and can be used to magnetically couple any of the MAMIs to their respectively coupled MFOs .

The non majority magnetic logic gate device may also further comprise an XOR gate which is composed of three adjacent SAMIs aligned linearly together and one MAMI . The three linearly aligned together adjacent SAMIs are magnetically coupled to each other and the one MAMI is magnetically coupled to a middle one of the three adjacent SAMIs .

The non majority magnetic logic gate device may also further comprise an applied magnetic clock field circuit configured to produce and to sweep the applied magnetic clock field .

The non majority magnetic logic gate device may also further comprise a dielectric layer a cladding layer a fill layer and an applied magnetic clock field circuit . It is preferable that the dielectric layer is disposed on the substrate and the cladding layer is on the dielectric layer . It is also preferable that the fill layer on the cladding layer and applied magnetic clock field circuit buried in the fill layer .

Another envisioned example of the present invention is that it comprises a non majority magnetic logic gate device . The non majority magnetic logic gate device of this example comprises a substrate a plurality of SAMIs a MAMI a plurality of MFIs and a MFO . The plurality of SAMIs are disposed on the substrate such that most of the SAMIs are disposed either substantially perpendicular or substantially in parallel relative to a sweeping direction of an applied magnetic clock field so that the applied magnetic clock field is applied substantially parallel or perpendicular to a plane of the substrate . Most of the SAMIs have lengths longer than widths that respectively define easy and hard magnetic axes and that most of the SAMIs are electrically isolated from each other. Of those SAMIs that are symmetrically aligned lengthwise side by side next to each other tend towards exhibiting antiferromagnetic coupling with each other. Of those SAMIs that are symmetrically aligned widthwise side by side next to each other tend towards exhibiting ferromagnetic coupling with each other. Three adjacent SAMIs aligned linearly together are magnetically coupled to each other. The MAMI is also disposed on the substrate in which the MAMI is configured to have a length longer than a width that respectively define easy and hard magnetic axes. Accordingly the MAMI is configured to exhibit a magnetization ground state bias which is dependent upon the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field and that the MAMI is electrically isolated from the SAMIs . The MAMI is also disposed next to the three adjacent SAMIs so that the MAMI is magnetically coupled to only a middle one of the three adjacent SAMIs in which the three adjacent SAMIs and the MAMI comprise an XOR gate. The MFIs are also disposed on the substrate and magnetically coupled to some of the SAMIs . The MFO is also disposed on the substrate and magnetically coupled to the MAMI .

Yet another envisioned example is that present invention can comprise a magnetic logic gate array . The magnetic logic gate array comprises a substrate a plurality of non majority magnetic logic gate devices MFIs and MFOs . The non majority magnetic logic gate devices are disposed on the substrate in which the devices comprises SAMIs and MAMIs . The SAMIs are disposed on the substrate in which most of the SAMIs are disposed either substantially perpendicular or substantially in parallel relative to a sweeping direction of an applied magnetic clock field such that the applied magnetic clock field is applied substantially parallel or perpendicular to a plane of the substrate . Most of the SAMIs having lengths longer than widths that respectively define easy and hard magnetic axes and that most of the SAMIs are electrically isolated from each other. Of those SAMIs that are symmetrically aligned lengthwise side by side next to each other tend towards exhibiting antiferromagnetic coupling with each other. Of those SAMIs that are symmetrically aligned widthwise side by side next to each other tend towards exhibiting ferromagnetic coupling with each other. The MAMIs are also disposed on the substrate in which the MAMIs have lengths longer than widths that respectively define easy and hard magnetic axes and that the MAMIs are electrically isolated from the SAMIs . Most MAMIs are magnetically coupled and sandwiched in between corresponding pairs of adjacent SAMIs . The MAMI is configured i.e. geometrically and or angularly misaligned to exhibit a magnetization ground state bias which is dependent upon the sweeping direction of the applied magnetic clock field . The MFIs are disposed on the substrate and magnetically coupled to some of the SAMIs . The MFOs are disposed on the substrate and magnetically coupled to the MAMIs .

The following simulated examples were generated using the Object Oriented Micro Magnetic Framework OOMMF developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST . The OOMMF uses a Landau Lifshitz ODE solver to relax 3D spins on a 2D mesh of square cells. Unless otherwise note all of the following simulations assume magnets made from supermalloy 79 Ni 15 Fe and 5 Mo which is a soft magnetic material with a uniaxial anisotropy constant of essentially zero. Thus there is no easy hard axis associated with the magnetic material itself and any easy hard axis is only defined by the magnet shape. Unless otherwise noted a saturation magnetization of 8.0 10A m and an exchange stiffness constant of 1.05 10J m are used to model supermalloy. It is also assumed that the damping coefficient is 0.1 instead of 0.5 which corresponds more to experimental results. A stopping criteria i.e. dm dt was chosen instead of a time cutoff. Each OOMMF simulation time step step was only considered to be complete when the maximum change in magnetization per unit time across all spins associated with a given circuit element fell below 1 degree ns. A stopping criteria i.e. dm dt was chosen instead of a time cutoff. Finally unless otherwise noted all simulated magnets were set to have a footprint of 50 75 25 nm.

Simulations of magnetic properties of magnets having slanted or cut edges as illustrated in the inserts in . In the simulations three slanted magnets initially have a strong x component of magnetization e.g. they are biased along their hard short axes . If no field is applied to keep a given device in this metastable state and the magnetic material is polycrystalline e.g. permalloy or supermalloy then the devices should relax into a magnetization state determined by its easy long axis. In clocked lines of magnets the fringing fields from a neighboring device will ideally determine the sign of the final magnetization state. In the presence of no applied bias what state a magnet with a rounded rectangular shape might eventually relax into would essentially be random.

However as magnetic moments tend to align along a magnet s edge a slanted edge can give a device a envisioned y component of magnetization. Both the position of the slant and the initial x component direction of magnetization both dictate what state a device will ultimately relax to. This effect is captured quantitatively in where we considered three magnets with slanted edges. Slant edge magnets v1 and v2 have a 50 75 25 nmfootprints and v3 has a 40 60 20 nmfootprint. Each slant edge magnet device was initialized with both a positive and negative x component of magnetization and was allowed to relax with no external clocking field or Hy bias applied. The placement of the slant and the direction of the initial x component of the magnetization consistently lead to a envisioned y component of magnetization of each of the slant edge magnet devices e.g. or states .

If a magnet with a slanted edge on its upper left initially has a strong positive y component of magnetization and an external field is applied from left to right along its hard axis and then removed there is no My state change. If the initial y component of magnetization is negative and the same field is applied even with no Hy bias there is an My state change. In this phenomenon is seen via OOMMF simulation of supermalloy magnets with various sizes and shapes. Slant position and direction of the Hx field initial Mx state determine the final My state.

The My state transition can be explained by plotting a device s demagnetizing energy i.e. the internal energy that opposes the direction of magnetization as a function of angle of magnetization . Each peak of the asymmetrical i.e. slant magnets is not centered at zero degrees as compared to the case for a symmetric rounded rectangular magnet. Rather each peak of the asymmetrical magnets is shown shifted to the left. This explains the My sign change in . The maximum magnetization energy is at an angle below horizontal. If the applied Hx field causes a device to move past this angle even if some initial y component of magnetization is retained when Hx is removed the devices relax such that My is positive.

In our second set of simulations we again considered a magnet in isolation with a slanted edge in isolation specifically slant edge magnet v1 of . As in the first simulation example the slant edge magnet was initially magnetized such that its y component of magnetization was equal to the saturation magnetization Ms of supermalloy . We then applied an external field along the magnet s hard axis in the positive x direction that increased in magnitude from 0 A m to 120 000 A m in 800 A m increments. The field was then removed in a similar fashion. These simulations results are illustrated in . Note that this device always retains some of its initial y component of magnetization state . Next the slant edge magnet was in an initial state such that My was negative . Again we applied a field along the device s hard axis from left to right then gradually increased in magnitude. Given these initial conditions when the external field Hx reaches 70 000 A m the position of the slant and the direction of the applied field include a transition from a down state to an up state even with no Hy bias is applied to the device.

Magnetic state changes e.g. from or can also be facilitated with combinations of hard axis and fringing fields as well. The clocking fields Hx place each magnet in an ensemble into a state such that it can be switched into a new logically correct state by its neighbor s fringing fields i.e. Hy .

This effect is depicted quantitatively in where a rounded rectangular and a slanted edge magnet were considered. Each simulated magnet was set to have a 50 75 nmfootprint and a constant 46 000 A m bias was applied along a mangnet s hard axis in each case. For each shape a magnet can transition from a or state with a significantly lower Hy bias. However while the M H curve for the rounded rectangle device is symmetric the same bias is required to facilitate an to and to transition the M H curve for the magnet with a slanted edge is asymmetric. Given the direction of the applied field Hx and the device s initial state a stronger field is required to make the magnet transition to a state against that suggested by the position of its slant e.g. 12 334 A m field is required for a to transition while a field of 15 915 A m is required for a to transition. Still while a 30 larger Hy bias is needed a state transition against the slant and direction is still possible.

In an actual circuit the Hy biases will not be externally applied but instead will come from neighboring devices. For example referring back to the fringing fields from iand imight generate the Hy bias that ultimately sets the state of the slanted output magnet. With this configuration there are four combinations of magnetization states that and icould represent See . Based on the simulation results if the target magnet with the slanted edge were initially biased such that Mx Ms and the input magnets were in opposite magnetization states the target magnet would be expected to settle into a state as the fringing fields from the two inputs effectively cancel. Similarly if the target magnet is sufficiently biased along its hard axis and the combined Hy biasing fields from iand iare sufficiently strong then they are expected to be able to set the magnetization state My of the slant edge target. If we equate a state to a binary 0 and a state to a binary 1 a magnet with a slanted edge could implicitly implement the logic OR function. Note that if the slanted edge were on the bottom left as shown in a logic AND function would result .

The average Hy bias produced by a 50 75 25 nmsupermalloy magnet even 15 nm away from a potential target is 25 000 m. Thus even if both input magnets in have the same magnetization state suggests that the fringing fields from the magnets alone will be insufficient to switch the state of the target as the MH curves there also include a 46 000 A m Hx bias . This suggests that we will also need to leverage an external clock field applied along a target magnet s hard axis in order to facilitate any potential state change given the biases that 2 inputs might actually provide at some reasonable distance away. We are particularly interested in facilitating a state transition with the smallest external field possible as larger currents would be needed to generate larger fields per the mechanism in FIG. which will only increase system energy demands.

We consider a circuit structure like that illustrated in . The target magnet was initialized to a state opposite of that suggested by each of the four possible input combinations. There are four possible state transitions. In each instance a field was applied parallel to the target magnet s hard axis. Our objective was to measure the magnitude of the external field required to facilitate a state transition. Three of the four simulation results are reported in . The to case is the easiest and is now shown to improve graph readability. As one can see higher external fields are required for the case where inputs are in opposite magnetization states. This makes sense as there is essentially no Hy helper bias. However the simulations where inputs with opposite magnetization states are not symmetric e.g. a greater external field is required if the top input is and the bottom input is than if the bottom input is and the top input is .

This can be explained quantitatively by considering the structure illustrated in when the line is in a ferromagnetically ordered state e.g. all devices are . If we measure the flux density 2 nm away from the top and bottom of the magnet with the slanted edge the average flux density is approximately 13 higher between o and ithan between o and i See Table 1 . In essence the position of the slant on the top of the target leads to weaker coupling between iand o than between iand o. Thus when the bottom magnet is in an state and the top magnet is in a state not only does the bottom magnet exert more control over the target but it is also pushing the target to a logically correct state. For the opposite input combination a greater external field is required as we essentially need to overcome the effects of a small anti bias from the bottom magnet in a state.

As magnetic field strength is a function of distance if allowable by a fabrication process one way to ensure that both inputs have equal control over a slanted target is to change the distance between iand o as depicted in . This effect is illustrated quantitatively in where the to in case is again considered. Like the simulation results summarized in we simulated an applied local field along the target magnet s hard axis. However in this simulation the spacing between iand o was 10 nm instead of 15 nm. The spacing between iand o remained at 15 nm. As seen in the target magnet now changes state with a lower magnitude field Hx . Similarly from Table 1 in a ferromagnetically ordered line the flux density between the top and bottom inputs and the target is essentially equal. Again if enabled by a given fabrication process these results suggest that asymmetric placement of the two inputs could allow for lower field and hence lower energy operations as the previous worst case is mitigated.

Finally it is noted that realistically an external field will not simply be applied to just a slanted target but rather the external field will be applied to all magnets in the ensemble. As such iand iwill become weaker drivers as the clocking field will increase each magnet s x component of magnetization. As also seen in the net effect of this is that a higher external field is required to facilitate a state transition in symmetric to case.

One important design parameter is magnet drive strength e.g. how much of a bias will it produce on the neighboring device that it is supposed to drive. To determine which shape configuration produces a stronger Hy bias we consider each configuration in both states via simulation and measure the field produced on an equivalently sized footprint 15 nm away assuming a magnet will drive a neighbor to its right . As seen in Table II the slant on the left configuration is an approximately 18 stronger driver.

Another important design parameter is the magnitude of the external field required to facilitate a state transition. As such we also studied which slant placement makes it easier to put a device into a metastable state as suggested by the input combinations that require state transitions. Again four different configurations are considered i a target that is initially in a state dictated by the slant and the direction of the applied switching field and where the inputs would suggest a state transition against the envisioned direction of the slant and ii iv a target that is initially in a state against that dictated by the slant and the direction of the applied switching field and where we cycle through all input combinations to put it into a correct state. Here the hard cases occur when the fringing fields from each input cancel and the slant determines the state transition. 

For each of these configurations we considered a 3 magnet line terminated by the block. The first magnet in the line was slanted. Local fields were applied over the target slanted magnet to mimic new input drivers and the external field applied to this system was increased from 0 until all of the magnets in the line switched into the logically correct state suggested by the applied local fields. We studied the state of the last magnet in the line as a function of the applied clock as this captures proper switching behavior of the line. Again we found that the slant left placement allows for each simulation to transition into a logically correct state with the lowest overall external field. With the slant right configuration there is less coupling between the input magnet a MAMI and its right neighbor a SAMI which makes it more difficult for the other magnets in the line to transition through a metastable state. It is worth noting that if inputs are asymmetric larger external fields are required. This maximum external field would then become a system design parameter as it would ensure that all the lines will transition correctly for all input combinations. Given these results a gate with a slant on the left should require lower fields to transition to a neutral state and can be a stronger driver.

A two input XOR gate is used as a vehicle to discuss how shape based logic can impact system level performance. The implicit majority voting function associated with magnetic logic will not enable a more efficient two input XOR gate. Majority gates must be reduced to AND OR gates to implement the Boolean function A B B A. A schematic of what a gate might look like if it were to be constructed with nanomagnets appears in . A majority gate design appears in and a shape based design appears in . . The shape based design reduces extraneous interconnection which can in turn reduce gate delay by approximately 25 and reduce the gate footprint by almost 60 . As automata like local interconnect and slower magnet switching times can only degrade performance a shape based logic approach can only improve system level performance. Additionally shape based logic gates appear to be controllable with the same fields necessary to control antiferromagnetic order bit lines of similarly sized magnets good from the standpoint of system level energy .

As to the manner of usage and operation of the present invention the same should be apparent from the above description. Accordingly no further discussion relating to the manner of usage and operation will be provided.

While an envisioned example of the non majority magnetic logic gate device has been described in detail it should be apparent that modifications and variations thereto are possible all of which fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention. With respect to the above description then it is to be realized that the optimum dimensional relationships for the parts of the invention to include variations in size materials shape form function and manner of operation assembly and use are deemed readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art and all equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed by the present disclosure.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the apparatus and methods described herein are susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described. It is to be understood that the invention includes all such variations and modification which fall within its spirit and scope.

Therefore the foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those of ordinary skill in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation shown and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

