---

title: Systems and methods for hybrid delivery of remote and local technical support via a centralized service
abstract: The present solution is directed to a hybrid customer support model for providing remote online support service in conjunction with local onsite support service. A local technician provides on site support service for a device at a premise for a predetermined amount of time. The onsite support by the local technician may be limited to a subset of the tasks for resolving an issue with the device or otherwise be limited to applying a subset or scope of skills to resolving the issue. In one embodiment, the local technician has a first type of skill from a plurality of skills. The local technician identifies an issue with the device and sends the issue to a centralized service. The centralized service receives an identification of the issue—the resolution of which may include a plurality of tasks. In one embodiment, each of the plurality of tasks is performed by one or more remote technicians having a skill type corresponding to the task. A resource pool is managed via the centralized service to support information flow in the hybrid model. The centralized service tracks service information and results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594304&OS=08594304&RS=08594304
owner: Plumchoice, Inc.
number: 08594304
owner_city: Billerica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101022
---
The present application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 198 713 Systems and Methods for Hybrid Delivery of Remote and Local Technical Support Via a Centralized Service filed Aug. 26 2008 which is a Continuation In Part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 169 706 Systems and Methods for Distributing Remote Technical Support via a Centralized Service filed Jul. 9 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 949 676 Systems and Methods for Distributing Remote Technical Support Via a Centralized Service filed Jul. 13 2007.

The present application is generally directed to centralized technical support management services. In particular the present application relates to providing onsite as well as remote technical support coordinated by a centralized service.

One way to provide support and repair of computers and electronics of consumers is through on site services. On site support services may be delivered via technical labor visiting the home to solve problems provision of information to the home in the form of emails online chat and phone or remotely attaching to the devices and providing direct support. The delivery of labor to the home is immensely inefficient and expensive because of travel time and because the nature of the work is indeterminate. Resolving a problem in the home may require a short visit or a long visit and may not be known until the technical labor is on site. As a result in home service providers typically schedule the availability of technicians with slack time to account for the indeterminate nature of the work as well as travel. The use of slack time to account for the nature of the work is wasteful and increases the amount of additional labor that may needed as demand increases. Not using slack time or using less slack time may decrease the availability of technicians to handle the next customer. This may result in abandoned customers decreased response time and decrease customer satisfaction. The nature of the on site work may be broad in technical scope as it may involve many different devices and software. This makes it very difficult if not nearly impossible for a service provider to find someone who is able to address the full spectrum of work on site. Often times follow up visits must be scheduled to complete work which could not be resolved by the dispatched technician. This results in longer delays in resolving the issue at home decreasing the customer s satisfaction with the support experience.

On the other hand purely remote service cannot resolve problems when access to the computer or other devices is constrained due to malfunction network issues or connections. Further there may be a hardware issue which requires a physical presence to repair or replace in order to fix. Therefore it is challenging to provide an optimum customer service experience by using either onsite support or remote customer support.

The solution described herein provides an innovative use of remote services technology integrated with service personnel onsite at the point of service such as a consumer repair outlet to provide a pool of technical support resources to service a widely distributed resource need such as support and repair resource needs of a chain of consumer outlets or an aggregated group of single proprietor consumer outlets. With this solution qualified technical resources are provided from a central location to service a wide variety of environments. This is on demand online remote support service is called or referred to as support from a spigot. The distribution method enables the delivery of higher quality more reliable and overall lower cost services. Instead of requiring dedicated technical resources at each location lower skilled labor may be deployed at the location to enable the remote technical support services process.

The present solution breaks down a request for technical support into sub domains of onsite and remote support which can be delivered by different skill types and methods. Amount of onsite labor time is optimized thereby allowing an efficient use of onsite labor. The skill set for onsite labor is more limited and hence amenable to more focused development. A resource pool is managed via a centralized service to support information flow in the hybrid labor model. The centralized service tracks service information and results.

The pool of remote technical resources is aggregated using centralized technology. Tools such as managed desktop sharing software with queuing software phone automated call distribution systems ACD and enabling processes may used to aggregate the remote resources via a central point. Onsite personnel may enable the work via the centralized service. Once enabled the pool of remote technical resources may deliver a broad range of services in the consumer outlet including installation of software repair of software based problems and general diagnostics. Because of the unique distribution model the technical resources may work from any geographical location.

The centralized resource pool may be staffed to meet time of day demands peak seasonal demands and even short bursts of demand at a much higher efficiency level than the traditional model. Work loads are statistically easier to forecast and staff when it is pooled at a central location. The efficiency of the centralized workforce is significantly higher because work load analysis can better predict staffing requirements and the work force will benefit from a steady stream of work. The centralized management of the pool of resources also allows for a complete service support structure to be put in place to hire train and manage the specialized and or technical resources. With availability of different and highly skilled resources via a centralized service tiered escalation resources may be brought to bear on a support or repair issue without the need for travel or delay. Because of the ability to route work to specific resources and between specialized resources based upon work type the most or more appropriate and lowest or lower cost labor may applied to address problem by category or type.

The hybrid model is a unique technology enabled support service model with significant benefits over the current state of the art. The benefits include a more efficient labor model. Overall cost of support is reduced since a large part of support is provided by remote labor instead of higher cost onsite labor. Onsite labor time is minimized and efficiency of onsite labor is increased. A larger pool of better skilled and better managed resources may be used to service a wide variety of service environments. The centralized pool of resource may more easily meet temporary surges in demand for services. The right skilled remote or onsite resources may be timely assigned to a technical problem to assure lower cost and higher quality work for each problem. With this new technology enabled support service consumer outlets may provide new services and guarantees to their customers.

In one aspect the present solution is directed to a method for providing remote online support service in conjunction with local onsite support service. A local technician provides on site support service for a device at a premise for a predetermined amount of time. The onsite support by the local technician may have a limited scope of skills directed to a subset of the tasks for resolving an issue with the device. In one embodiment the local technician has a first type of skill from a plurality of skills. The local technician identifies an issue with the device and sends the issue to a centralized service. The centralized service receives an identification of the issue the resolution of which may include a plurality of tasks. In one embodiment each of the plurality of tasks is performed by one or more remote technicians having a skill type corresponding to the task. The centralized service assigns a first task of the plurality of tasks to a first remote technician having a second type of skill from the plurality of skills. The first remote technician performs the first task on the device via a first network connection to the device.

In one embodiment the local technician may perform one or more tasks at the premises within the predetermined amount of time leading to a resolution of the issue. In another embodiment the local technician establishes remote connectivity between the device at the premise and the centralized service. In still another embodiment the local technician identifies one or more tasks for resolution of the issue. In yet another embodiment the centralized service identifies one or more tasks for resolution of the issue.

In one embodiment the centralized service automatically assigns a first task to the first remote technician. In another embodiment the centralized service assigns the first task based on one or more attributes of the first task corresponding to one or more skill types of the first remote technician. In still another embodiment the centralized service automatically assigns a second task to a second remote technician having a third type of skill. The second remote technician performs the second task on the device via the first network connection or a second network connection to the device. In yet another embodiment the centralized service assigns the second task to a third remote technician. In a further embodiment each of the tasks for the resolution of the issue requires a different skill type.

In another aspect the present solution is directed to a method for managing delivery of remote online support services and local onsite support services to a device at a premise which may include a local technician performing a first task during the onsite support service for the device. The local technician has a corresponding skill type to perform the first task. A centralized service receives identification of an issue with the device and a status of the first task which is provided by the local technician. The resolution of the issue includes a plurality of tasks each of which is performed by one or more technicians having a corresponding skill type. The centralized service assigns a second task of the plurality of tasks to a second remote technician of a plurality of remote technicians. In a further embodiment the centralized service determines a status of resolution of the issue via the status of the first task and a status of the second task performed by the second remote technician.

In one embodiment the first local technician completes the first task during the onsite support service at the premise. In another embodiment the first local technician is scheduled to perform the onsite support service for a predetermined amount of time. In still another embodiment the first local technician or the centralized service identifies one or more tasks of the plurality of tasks required for the resolution of the issue. In yet another embodiment the centralized service assigns the second task to the second remote technician based on one or more attributes of the second task corresponding to one or more skill types of the second remote technician. In one embodiment the centralized service determines that the resolution of the issue is completed via completion of the first task at the premise and completion of the second task remotely by the remote technician. In another embodiment the centralized service determines that the resolution of the issue is not completed and assigns the second task or a third task to a third remote technician. In still another embodiment assignment of the second task to the third remote technician is done responsive to the determination that resolution of the issue is not completed.

In still another aspect the present solution is directed to a system for supporting delivery of remote online support services and local onsite support services to one or more devices. The one or more devices may be located at one or more premises. The system includes an interface of a centralized service for receiving identification of a plurality of issues. Each of the plurality of issues is identified by local technicians for devices at a plurality of premises. Each of the local technicians provides onsite support service at a premise for a predetermined amount of time.

In another embodiment the system includes an engine of the centralized service. The engine determines a plurality of tasks for a resolution of each of the plurality of issues. Each of the plurality of tasks is performed by one or more technicians having a corresponding skill type. In another embodiment the system includes one or more work queues for assigning each of the tasks for each of the issues to a remote technician. In yet another embodiment the remote technician is chosen from one or more remote technicians based on the remote technician having a corresponding skill to perform the task. In one embodiment the centralized service determines the status of each issue based on the status of each task for resolving the issue.

In some embodiments each of the devices at the plurality of premises is connected to the centralized service by a local technician. In another embodiment one or more remote technicians connect via one or more networks to the device. In still another embodiment the one or more remote technicians perform each of the plurality of tasks for resolution of the issue. In yet another embodiment the centralized service monitors the status of each task for each issue and in response to the monitoring assigns one or more tasks to remote technicians. In a further embodiment the centralized service automatically assigns tasks to remote technicians based on attributes of the tasks corresponding to one or more skill types of the remote technicians.

For purposes of reading the description of the various embodiments of the present invention below the following descriptions of the sections of the specification and their respective contents may be helpful 

Referring to a block diagram of an environment to provide remote technical support to a device via a centralized service is shown and described. In brief overview the system includes one or more consumer outlets in general of a retailer connected via a network to a centralized service . In one embodiment the centralized service provides an interface to the consumer outlet via an intelligent switch that provides connectivity work flow and queue management and service process management for a remote technician from a pool of remote technicians in general to perform work on a device at the consumer outlet . In another embodiment an outlet includes a point of service to which a device requiring service is connected. In still another embodiment a request for service from the device is transmitted to the centralized service via the point of service and a network . In yet another embodiment the centralized service includes one or more queues in general where the request from the device is stored. In a further embodiment a remote technician picks up a request from a queue by connecting to the centralized service over a network . In one embodiment the remote technician connects to the device over a network to provide remote technical service to the device

The above depicted system is an example embodiment of an environment for deploying the on demand service referred to as support from spigot. The centralized service include remote technical support services to allow one or more remote technicians to perform any type and form of support service and repair on a device connected via a network such as the Internet at the consumer outlet . The consumer outlet may have a workbench providing connectivity and access to the Internet Switch and the centralized service via an Internet Interface.

The device may comprise any type and form of electronic device. In one embodiment a device is any type of computing device such as a desktop computer or a laptop computer. In another embodiment the device is an electronic equipment capable of connecting to a network. In still another embodiment the device is any type and form of communications device. In yet another embodiment the device is a cellular phone. In one embodiment the is a BLACKBERRY device manufactured by Research in Motion RIM of Waterloo Ontario Canada. In another embodiment the device is a personal digital assistant PDA phone or smartphone such as one manufactured by Palm Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. In still another embodiment the device is an IPHONE manufactured by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. In further embodiments the device can be a digital camera a video cassette recorder VCR a digital video recorder DVR such as one manufactured by TiVo Inc. of Alviso Calif. a printer a telephone a digital music player or any other electronic gadget and equipment as apparent to one skilled in the art.

Furthermore the device may include a network interface to interface to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein.

The device may include any type and form of operating system which control scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. In some embodiments the device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the Mac OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include WINDOWS 3.x WINDOWS 95 WINDOWS 98 WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS NT 3.51 WINDOWS NT 4.0 WINDOWS CE WINDOWS XP and WINDOWS VISTA all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MacOS manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. OS 2 manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. and Linux a freely available operating system distributed by Caldera Corp. of Salt Lake City Utah or any type and or form of a Unix operating system among others.

In one embodiment the centralized service is executed from a server or any other computing device. The server may be referred to as a file server application server web server proxy server or gateway server. In some embodiments the server may have the capacity to function as either an application server or as a master application server. In one embodiment the system may include multiple logically grouped servers. In these embodiments the logical group of servers may be referred to as a server farm. In some of these embodiments the servers of the farm may be geographically dispersed. In some cases a farm may be administered as a single entity. In other embodiments the server farm comprises a plurality of server farms. In one embodiment the server and or server farm executes one or more applications on behalf of the centralized service . The servers within each farm can be heterogeneous. One or more of the servers can operate according to one type of operating system platform e.g. WINDOWS NT manufactured by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. while one or more of the other servers can operate on according to another type of operating system platform e.g. UNIX or Linux . The group of servers logically grouped as a farm may be interconnected using a wide area network WAN connection or metropolitan area network MAN connection. Data transmission speeds between servers in the farm can be increased if the servers are connected using a local area network LAN connection or some form of direct connection.

In further overview of the consumer outlet may receive a device from a customer at a point of service such as at a support desk or area at a retailer. For example a store associate may receive a computer device from a customer requesting support service or repair on the computer. The store associate may connect the computer at a point of service to access the centralized service . In one embodiment the point of service includes an Internet Interface not shown . In another embodiment the store associate may via the Internet Interface set up and configure the type of problem to be solved or the type of service to be performed via the centralized service . For example the store associate may enter information on a work order form such as via one or more web pages and submit the form to the Internet Switch via the Internet Interface . In one embodiment the information may identify the computer attached at the workbench. In another embodiment the Internet Switch receives the form and information and places the device and or work to be performed on the device in a queue . In still another embodiment the queue may be organized and arranged in any manner including by type or category of device type or category of service nature of the problem and or location or name of consumer outlet . In yet another embodiment the Internet Switch includes scheduling and dispatching logic software to dispatch the work order to the next available remote technician .

In one embodiment the Internet Switch may select the next remote technician using any type and form of decision criteria and or load balancing scheme. In some embodiments the Internet Switch selects the next remote technician who is suited to perform the type of service support or repair requested on the device . In one embodiment the switch determines from the request from the device a type of work and one or more service level attributes required to perform the type of work at a predetermined service threshold. The service level attributes and the predetermined service threshold are discussed in further details with reference to .

In one embodiment the selected remote technician receives a prompt a communication or any type and form of notice to perform work on the device attached at the consumer outlet. The information from the submitted form and in the queue of the Internet Switch may identify the device such as by Internet Protocol Machine Access Control MAC address or by any other identifiers uniquely identifying the device . In another embodiment the remote technician connects to the identified device attached at the workbench using any desktop sharing and remote connectivity and support technology such as via the GoToAssist technology manufactured by Citrix Online LLC of Santa Barbara Calif. part of Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. or BOMGAR remote access software developed by BOMGAR of Ridgeland Miss. In still another embodiment the remote technician performs any type of hardware and software diagnostic installation repair and or configuration. In yet another embodiment when the service is completed the remote technician may provide an electronic report on the device indicating that service has been completed any diagnostic information and the type of services performed and any results thereof.

Although shows a plurality of networks including network between the consumer outlet and the centralized service and networks between the centralized service and the remote technicians any or all of the outlets the centralized service and remote technicians may be on the same network . In one embodiment any of the networks may be the same type of network or different types of networks. The network can be a local area network LAN such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or the World Wide Web. The network s may be a private or public network. In one embodiment the network of the consumer outlet may be a private network and network of the Internet Switch or centralized services may be a public network or vice versa. In another embodiment the network of the centralized services and the network of the consumer outlet may be private networks. In still another embodiment any network may include one or more networks of different kinds as apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In one embodiment the network may be any type and or form of network and may include any of the following a point to point network a broadcast network a wide area network a local area network a telecommunications network a data communication network a computer network an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode network a SONET Synchronous Optical Network network a SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy network a wireless network and a wireline network. In some embodiments the network may comprise a wireless link such as an infrared channel or satellite band. In another embodiment the topology of the network may be a bus star or ring network topology. In other embodiments the network and network topology may be of any such network or network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein.

In some embodiments the centralized service may connect to the consumer outlet or a device at the point of service using any type and form of protocol such as any internet protocols for communications. Examples of such protocols include but are not limited to application layer protocols such as HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP and Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP transport layer protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol TCP and User Datagram Protocol UDP network layer protocols such as Internet Protocol IP datalink layer protocols such as IEEE 802.11 Token Ring and Ethernet and physical layer protocols such as RS 232 and Synchronous Optical Networking SONET . In some embodiments secure communications between the remote technician and the centralized service are established via encryption for example via a secure socket layer SSL or a virtual private network VPN . In other embodiments secure communications between the remote technician and the device at the consumer outlet are established via encryption for example via a secure socket layer SSL or a virtual private network VPN . In yet another embodiment end to end security is established via the remote technician and the device at the consumer outlet . With secured communications the privacy of the data on a device may be protected and or maintained. Because of the ubiquity of networks network connectivity and the internet the systems and methods of the system described herein is available in just about any possible customer scenario as apparent to one ordinarily skilled in the art.

Referring now to a block diagram depicting an embodiment of a centralized service for allocating a service request to a remote technician is shown and depicted. In one embodiment the centralized service receives a request for work . A work type is determined from the work request to identify one or more service level attributes required to service the work request . In another embodiment the centralized service communicates with a technician database to determine capabilities of technicians available to service the work request. In still another embodiment an intelligent switch routes the incoming work request to a queue of a plurality of queues in general . In yet another embodiment the intelligent switch matches the service level attributes of the work request with the capabilities of the remote technicians to determine a remote technician suited to service the work request at a predetermined service level . In one embodiment the intelligent switch includes a policy engine that communicates with a set of rules to perform the matching. In a further embodiment a queue manager manages allocation and moving of requests between the plurality of queues .

In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch comprises any type and form of mechanism and interface for connecting dispatching identifying and managing the flow of work from a consumer outlet to a remote technician . In another embodiment the Intelligent Switch may comprise software hardware or any combination of software and hardware. In some embodiments the Intelligent Switch includes dispatching and or scheduling logic functions and operations to identify and select the most appropriate technician and then pass the connection to the computer so the service may be performed. In another embodiment the Intelligent Switch may have information on which technicians are logged in and currently available and the skill sets capabilities and or knowledge that they have and type of work or service they may perform. In some embodiments the Intelligent Switch tracks real time which technicians are available and which technicians are currently performing a service and for which consumer outlet and or device . In still another embodiment the Intelligent Switch has obtains or maintains profiles for each of the remote technicians . A profile identifies the technician s technical capabilities certifications types of service or work authorized or assigned to perform and or performance information and statistics for past service work. In one embodiment the technician profiles are stored in a technician database in communication with the centralized service .

A work type comprises any type and form of information data or identification of the work to be performed in response to the work request . In one embodiment a work type is identified from the incoming work request . In another embodiment the work type identification includes identifying one or more service level attributes from the work request . In still another embodiment the service level attributes include but are not limited to one or more of the following a level of skill a certification or a level of training to perform the type of work on the device at the predetermined service threshold. In another embodiment the service level attributes include but are not limited to a language location or time to perform the type of work on the device at the predetermined service threshold. In yet another embodiment a service level attribute may include one or more sub attributes derived from one or more service level attributes . In a further embodiment a service level attribute may be a function of one or more service level attributes . In one embodiment one or more service level attributes of a work type may be determined using any algorithm or qualitative and or quantitative analysis on the work request . In another embodiment the service level attributes are explicitly specified in the work request . In still another embodiment the service level attributes are encoded in the work request .

In one embodiment the technician database stores the profiles of one or more remote technician . The technician database generally also referred to as data source may comprise any type and form of data. In one embodiment the technician database comprises any type and form of relational database non relational database object database or object oriented database. In some embodiments the technician database comprises any of the database products manufactured by Oracle of Redwood Shores Calif. In another example the technician database comprises any of the versions of Microsoft SQL Server manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. In one embodiment the technician database provides an Open Database Connectivity ODBC interface for accessing the database. In another embodiment the technician database comprises a server farm of databases. In some embodiments the technician database comprises a database cluster.

In other embodiments the technician database comprises a file such as a CSV command separated formatted file. In another embodiment the technician database comprises a file having fields or values delimited in any manner by using fixed length field or any predetermined field or value delimiters. The file may have a structure format and or content readable and understandable by the centralized service or any portion thereof. In other embodiments the technician database includes an application program software service process or task providing access to data. The technician database may provide any type and form of application programming interface API such as an XML object or web service based interface for accessing or providing data.

A capability of a remote technician comprises any type and form of information data and identification related to one or more of a background skill level knowledge training experience certification and any other attribute of the technician . In one embodiment the technician profiles identify the capabilities of each of the one or more remote technicians . In another embodiment the capabilities of a remote technician may include but are not limited to one or more of the following skill set language spoken certifications training received availability and any other attribute as apparent to one ordinarily skilled in the art. In yet another embodiment a capability of a remote technician may be a function of one or more capabilities . In one embodiment the capabilities of a remote technician may include an attribute derived from a performance history of the technician . In another embodiment the capabilities of a remote technician may be classified according to one or more different attributes such as work type customer type interaction with a specific customer and any other attribute. In still another embodiment a remote technician acquires a capability by testing out at a certain level of certification. In one embodiment the remote technician is certified for a skill or level of skill by passing any type and form of testing or certification. In yet another embodiment if a technician with valid certification is not available a related or previous certification may be considered as a capability . For example if a technician with currently valid certification is not available a substantially recently expired certification may be considered as a capability . In some embodiments a technician s certification may become obsolete old or no longer valid. In one case although the technician s certification is not current the technician may be selected by the centralized service for that task based on previous certification.

In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch matches the service level attributes with the capabilities of the technicians . In another embodiment the Intelligent Switch communicates with the technician database to identify the capabilities of one or more remote technicians . In still another embodiment the service level attributes are matched to capabilities by the Intelligent Switch based on an algorithm. In yet another embodiment each of the service level attributes and or the capabilities are assigned weights by the centralized service in communication with the policy engine . In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch executes a learning algorithm to match the service level attributes to the capabilities . In another embodiment the Intelligent Switch uses any algorithm software hardware or a combination thereof to match the service level attributes to the capabilities . In still another embodiment the service level attributes and the capabilities are matched to determine a technician substantially suited to service a work request .

In some embodiments the service level attribute of a level of skill may be matched to a skill level of a remote technician . In one of these embodiments a skill may represent a general area of expertise such as hardware software or networks. In another of these embodiments a skill may represent more focused expertise in any hardware related area such as motherboards graphics cards monitors or network cards. In still another of these embodiments a skill may represent a focused expertise in a software related area such as databases anti virus software firewalls and operating systems.

In other embodiments the service level attribute of language may be matched to a corresponding language capability of a remote technician . In one embodiment a language may represent a spoken and or written language such as English Chinese Spanish or Hindi. In another embodiment a language may be a computer language such as C C Java HTML or Pascal. In still another embodiment a language may be any form of communication between two individuals such as sign language.

In still other embodiments service level attributes such as certification and or level of training are matched to corresponding capabilities of the remote technicians . In one embodiment a certification may be from an organization or a company such as Cisco Certified Network Associate CCNA certifications from Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. or Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist MCTS Microsoft Certified Professional Developer MCPD Microsoft Certified IT Professional MCITP and Microsoft Certified Architect MCA certifications from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. In other embodiments a certification may be one or more of an authorization an endorsement a promotion a validation and an authentication from any company organization institution or individual as apparent to one skilled in the art. In one embodiment a training may be a formal education received in an area of concentration. In another embodiment a training may represent hands on experience in a related field. In still other embodiments a training may represent means for developing a skill and or expertise in one or more areas.

In yet other embodiments a service level attribute of time is matched to a corresponding capability of a remote technician . In one embodiment time may be a service level attribute such as the time the work request is received at the centralized service . In another embodiment a time may represent a capability of a remote technician such as a window of availability. In other embodiments a time may represent one or more of service level attributes and or capabilities such as maximum minimum turn around time maximum minimum waiting time and any other related time as apparent to one ordinarily skilled in the art. In still another embodiment the time may represent a period by which a technician executes a task at a predetermined service threshold . For example a technician may be selected based on average historical times to execute one or more support tasks or any statistical temporal measurement of task execution. In some embodiment the centralized services selects and assigns work to technicians based on their speed of execution such as indicated by average task times.

In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch determines the technician suitable to service a work request to meet a predetermined service threshold . A predetermined service threshold is any type and form of a metric used to identify one or more qualitative and or quantitative aspect related to performing a service such as any measurable element of the service. In one embodiment the pre determined service threshold is a quantitative metric such as turnaround time. In another embodiment the service threshold is a qualitative metric such as customer satisfaction. In yet another embodiment the service threshold is considered as a service level attribute in determining a technician to service a work request . In one embodiment the service threshold may be specified as a part of the work request . In another embodiment a technician is selected by the Intelligent Switch to optimize the probability of meeting the service threshold . In other embodiments the service threshold may be one or more characteristics and or capabilities of the remote technician such as age language spoken accent dialect sex ethnicity or any other characteristics for which a customer may indicate a preference. Via customer selection or profile a technician may be selected based on any number of non technical characteristics.

In some embodiments the Intelligent Switch includes a policy engine . In another embodiment the policy engine is driven by a set of rules . In one embodiment the policy engine may include for example an intelligent statistical engine or other programmable application s . In another embodiment the policy engine provides a configuration mechanism to allow a user to identifying specify define or configure a matching policy. The policy engine in some embodiments also has access to memory to support data structures such as lookup tables or hash tables to enable user selected matching policies. In other embodiments the policy engine may comprise a set of rules including any logic rules functions or operations to determine and provide access control and management of service level attributes and capabilities being matched by the intelligent switch .

In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch includes the Citrix Online GoToAssist support portal. In other embodiments the Intelligent Switch may include any online support systems from WebEx Communications LogMeIn or Microsoft. In some embodiments the Intelligent Switch includes software functions or logic that call an application programming interface API to the support portal and software system to perform desired functionality and operations described herein. In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch is designed and constructed to forward work to specific agents or technical resources or pools of agents technical resources based upon information received via the Internet Interface such as answers to questions on a web form.

In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch may include any type and form of logic functions or executable instructions to organize support and or work request into queues and to dispatch or schedule such request to technicians . In another embodiment the Intelligent Switch may identify arrange or organize queues in general in any manner scheme or into any type and form of categories. In some embodiments the queues may be organized by consumer outlet or locations thereof. In other embodiments the queues may be organized by groups of consumer outlets such as for a retail chain. In another embodiment the queues may be organized by the type of service requested and or the nature of the problem. For example queues may be organized for application installation services checkup and virus scan services or software or operating system upgrades. In still other embodiments the queues may be organized by the type or category of software application or operating system. In another embodiment the queues may be organized by type of device such as computing MP3 printer etc. In further embodiments the queues may be organized by the manufacturer or brand of the device. In one embodiment the queues may be organized or arranged by groups of one or more technicians . In another embodiment the queues may be arranged by geographic locations of one or more technicians.

The scheduling and or dispatching functionality of the Intelligent Switch uses any type and form of logic algorithm or scheme to match work from a queue to a suitable technician. In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch determines the next available remote technician to give the work from a queue or any of the queues . In some embodiments the Intelligent Switch characterizes the work type based on one or more service level attributes that are required or desired to perform the work . In another embodiment the Intelligent Switch has knowledge of capabilities of the remote technicians such as from profiles stored in the technician database . In still another embodiment the Intelligent Switch determines and selects a technician suited to service the work request by matching the service level attributes to the capabilities of the technicians. In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch selects a technician best suited to service the work request. Upon this determination in one embodiment the Intelligent Switch delivers or informs the matched or selected technician of the item he or she should work on next. If work type is not known then the Intelligent Switch may assign the queued work to a technical resource that is capable of diagnosing problem for later redirect to the most appropriate technician. For example after diagnosing the problem the technical resource may resubmit the work to the Intelligent Switch to be assigned to a technical resource. The diagnosing technical resource may assign the work to the appropriate queue or provide information from the diagnostics for the Intelligent Switch to assign the work to the appropriate queue or technical resource.

The Intelligent Switch uses any rules and or algorithm to select a technician suited to service a work request. In one embodiment the service level attributes and or the capabilities may be ordered based on a priority of requirement. In another embodiment each attribute and or capability is assigned a weight prior to the selection. In still another embodiment one or more of the attributes and or the capabilities may be marked as essential. In such an embodiment if a suited technician satisfying the essential capability is not available the work request is put on hold till a suited technician becomes available. In one embodiment if the Intelligent Switch cannot select a suited technician a communication is sent out to all available technicians to query if any technician is capable of servicing the work request . In one embodiment one service level attribute is matched to a corresponding capability to select a remote technician. In another attribute a plurality of service level attributes is matched to a plurality of corresponding capabilities to select a remote technician. In some embodiments a multi level process is employed to select a remote technician. In one of these embodiments in one level one or more remote technicians are selected as a first group based on matching one or more high priority attributes to one or more corresponding capabilities. In another of these embodiments in another level one or more remote technicians are selected from the first group based on matching one or more lower priority attributes to one or more corresponding capabilities. In some embodiments one or more technicians are selected based on weights assigned to one or more skills and capabilities. For example a technician A may have skill skill and skill at different levels. Technician may have skill and skills at lower levels than that of technician . If for a certain task skill has a very high weight e.g. it is mandatory and not optional while skills have relatively low weights technician may be selected over technician . As another example if a task requires a high weight on one or more of skills and a low weight on skill technician may be selected over technician .

In one embodiment the remote technical support system technician resources are aggregated by the Intelligent Switch into pools of labor which are used to resolve the issues aggregated from the customer outlets . Because the technical resources deliver their services remotely through networks such as the Internet they can be located in call centers or in a distributed work environment such as a home. As long as the technical resource has access to the network or the Internet they can provide services for customers.

In one embodiment the Intelligent Switch may include any type and form of logic function operations or executable instructions to perform load balancing between one or more queues and the remote technicians . For example the Intelligent Switch may load balance queues based on the type of work and the capabilities of available technicians. In some cases technicians may have multiple skills sets that may be used to work on request in multiple queues. The Intelligent Switch may load balance service requests or the queues to meet the predetermined service threshold or metrics for a consumer outlet . The Intelligent Switch may load balance the queues according to priority levels assigned at a consumer outlet . In other embodiments the Intelligent Switch may load balance queues across a retailer s chain of consumer outlets . In yet another embodiment the Intelligent Switch may load balance queues based on geographic locations such as for a region of consumer outlets . In a further embodiment the Intelligent Switch may use performance and timing metrics of work performed to load balance to remote technicians based on average support resolution times based on queue type or historical time of the technician .

In some embodiments the remote technical support services provided via the Intelligent Switch may include any type and form of remote technical or online services such as PlumChoice Online PC services of Billerica Mass. FireDog services provided by CircuitCity Stores Inc. online services provided by Support.com and tech24 at tech24.com.

Referring now to a block diagram of an example of a point of service is shown and described. In one embodiment the point of service includes the internet interface to communicate with the centralized service over one or more networks . In another embodiment devices in general are connected to the Internet Interface to access the centralized service . In still another embodiment a consumer brings a device to be serviced to the point of service . In yet another embodiment a store associate communicates with the consumer and connects the device to the Internet Interface . In a further embodiment a device can be connected to the Internet Interface by the consumer directly without the intervention of a store associate .

In one embodiment an agent executes on the device to communicate with the centralized service . The agent may be software hardware or any combination of software and hardware. In another embodiment the agent transmits the service request to the centralized service via the Internet Interface . In still another embodiment the agent is installed in the device at the point of service . In one embodiment the agent is downloaded automatically on the device from the centralized service when the device is connected to the centralized service . In another embodiment the agent is manually downloaded and installed by the store associate . In yet another embodiment the agent runs a diagnostic test on the device and transmits the results to the centralized service via the Internet Interface . In a further embodiment the agent presents a form and or a questionnaire to be filled by the consumer and or the associate . In one embodiment the agent establishes a secure connection with the centralized service .

In one embodiment the on demand remote technical services provided via the centralized service and Internet Switch is designed and constructed to allow a lower skilled non technical store associate to provide access to remote skilled technicians to diagnose and fix technical problems or perform routine system support functions such as software installation and computer configuration. In another embodiment the Internet Switch provides a simple easy to use interface that allows the associate to connect the computer to the Intelligent Switch through a network . In still another embodiment the Intelligent Switch directs the work to the next available technical resource which has the skill set or capability to address the work type required to be performed on the computer. In yet another embodiment technicians provide support directly on the device at the remote location using desktop sharing software combined with tools which allows typical interaction with the remote system.

The Internet Interface comprises any type and form of interface to provide access to the device via one or more networks . In one embodiment the Internet Interface may include software or hardware or any combination of software and hardware. In some embodiments the store associate configures the device to connect to the point of service of the consumer outlet . In other embodiments the Internet Interface is designed and constructed to allow the device to be automatically connected to the point of service and or the centralized service . For example access may be simplified to the point that a store associate connects a network connection and power for the device and the remote technician resource will automatically access the device when the resource is available. Any type and form of remote connectivity control and boot device may be used at the point of service and for the Internet Interface to provide automatic remote control such as any such commercial device manufactured by Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. In some embodiments the device can be hooked up to the Internet Interface as simply as hooking up a USB connection and power rather than all peripherals as the remote technicians do need the mouse and keyboard.

In one embodiment the Internet Interface also may comprise any type and form of interface to access the functionality of the Internet Switch and the centralized service . In another embodiment the Internet Interface may comprise any type and form of user interface such as a graphical user interface to provide information to convey to the remote technical resource to identify or characterize the nature of the work or tasked that is expected to be performed on the computer. In still another embodiment the Internet Interface may include any type and form of web form and application programming interface API calls. In one embodiment the Internet Interface may include a questionnaire a series of forms or a wizard to prompt for information to identify the type of service and the device in a manner desired or suitable by the Internet Switch centralized service and or remote technician . The Internet Interface may also include an interface to any type and form of call distribution software based upon work type. In some embodiments the information and or Internet Interface may be provided via any type and form of Customer Relationship Management CRM system. In yet another embodiment the information may also identify which machine or device needs repair or service or is otherwise associated with the information submission via the Internet Interface. For example the information provided may include a unique identifiable machine code such as an Internet Protocol IP Ethernet or Machine Access Control MAC address or a host name.

In some embodiments points of service at consumer outlets providing technical support may provide a person who has the technical skills and or knowledge to perform some of the repairs requested by customers. However in some cases it may be difficult to find a store associate who has the full range of skills to address the majority of problems that may they may face. With the systems and methods described herein a lower skilled store associate may easily hook up the device to the Internet Interface and communicate work requirements to the Intelligent Switch . In one embodiment the store associate may be replaced by a web based wizard to support a customer who wants to access services through a wireless hotspot or directly via a kiosk or a workbench at the point of service . In some cases the remote technical resource may communicate directly with a customer after a device has been hooked up to engage directly with the customer and diagnose the technical issue.

In some embodiments if the store associate has suitable skills then the store associate may manually assign the device and work to an appropriate or design technical resource queue to perform the service using a login and registration process. The Citrix GoToAssist client and management capability is an example of a desktop sharing application and platform for delivery of this type of interface. The Internet Interface and or Internet Switch may include the GoToAssist support portal. Via the Internet Interface the store associate may enter information in a form and submit a support item to a work queue .

In one embodiment the consumer outlet may include any type form and location providing a point of service at which service may be requested or accessed. In another embodiment customers may be aggregated by a number of different venues. Some of these venues are consumer electronic stores or chains. Examples of these would be Circuit City and Frys Electronics. In other embodiments other consumer outlet or venues may be non technical locations which have local access to consumers such as local cleaning stores convenience stores drug stores etc. In one embodiment the remote technical services described herein may be used to provide support for depot locations where devices are sent to be serviced at a central location. Original equipment manufactures OEMS such as Dell and HP use depots as do retailers such as Best Buy. In addition other consumer outlets may be used such as any location where customers may access these services without having to set foot into a store location such as any where wireless hotspots or internet connections are available. Examples of these could be commercial hotspots in airports coffee shops or even access points from the parking lot of the above retail or consumer depot locations.

Customers may have a diverse set of devices and resource needs which request are in need of service or may be serviced. The systems and methods described herein may be used to support diagnose repair or service any type and form of device and or software. When new electronic devices are purchased such as computers they often require software such as security software or office applications to be installed. Older computers have a majority of issues which relate to the software rather than hardware. As a result the majority of issues customers have with their computers relate to the software for example viruses spyware performance problems drivers configuration versions etc. All of these problems may be fixed using the remote technical support system described herein. By the same approach any device which connects to a network or computer such as printers cameras scanners MP3 devices telecommunication devices cell phones back up storage and or any other peripheral computing and or network device may all be supported via centralized remote technical support services. For these devices software installation and repair may be performed as well as training on the use of the devices such as direct one on one training between the consumer and the technician using the remote technical support system.

Referring now to a flow diagram depicting steps of an embodiment of a method for allocating a service request to a remote technician is shown and described. In brief overview the method includes identifying step a device located at and connected from a point of service . The method further includes receiving step a request for service to be performed on the device from the point of service and determining step a type of work to be performed based on the service request. The centralized service assigns step the device to a queue and identifies step a remote technician to perform work on the queue. The method also includes transmitting step a communication to the identified technician to perform work on the device . In one embodiment the centralized service repeats one or more of the above mentioned steps to service step another work request.

In one embodiment identifying step a device connected at a point of service includes verifying if the device is authorized to receive service from a remote technician . In another embodiment the identifying also includes determining if the device is equipped with required resources to receive remote service. In still another embodiment the connectivity and location of the device is identified by the centralized service . In further embodiments the identifying includes but is not limited to determining the Media Access Control MAC address of the device a type of device a presence of a firewall applications executing on the device and an operating system of the device .

A request for service to be performed on the device is received step at the centralized service and a type of work to be performed is determined step . In one embodiment the centralized service determined the type of work based on one or more service level attributes of the work request . In another embodiment the determination may be performed in one of a plurality of possible ways as described with reference to . As an example the centralized service may determine based on the work request that the work type is related to troubleshooting ADOBE PHOTOSHOP on the device and the user of the device prefers to be communicated with in Chinese. As another example the centralized service may determine that the work type is related to connection issues that require a Cisco Certified Network Associate CCNA technician to resolve.

In one embodiment the centralized service assigns step the work request from the device to a queue and identifies step a remote technician to perform work on the queue. In another embodiment the centralized service may identify the remote technician based on the work request and assign the request to a queue for the remote technician. In one embodiment the assignment to the queue is carried out in communication with a queue manager . In another embodiment the queue manager may reassign the work request from one queue to another queue based on issues such as load balancing. Assignment to queues and identifying remote technicians are described with reference to . As an example the queue manager may detect that a technician is experiencing connectivity issues and transfer work requests in the queue of the technician to the queue of technician who is suited to handle the work requests. In another example the queue manager may assign one request from the queue to the queue and assign another request from the queue to the queue

The centralized service transmits step a communication to the identified technician to perform work on the device . In one embodiment the communication includes details on the work type and or one or more service level attributes . In another embodiment the communication may include any instructions notes and requests as apparent to one skilled in the art. In still another embodiment more requests are serviced step by the centralized service. In one embodiment the centralized service performs one or more of the steps when servicing another work request. In one embodiment if the work request is from the same device one or more steps beginning from step are performed. In another embodiment if the work request is from another device one or more steps beginning from step are performed.

In some embodiments the processes for providing the services involve preparation on the part of the store associate . In other embodiments similar steps can be taken by the consumer by interacting directly with a wizard or web form or any other type of user interface.

Referring now to an example embodiment of an end to end method for using the techniques described herein are shown and described. In brief overview of steps of the embodiment of the above method a customer visits a point of service and brings step any device for support or service by the consumer outlet . The store associate greets the customer and discusses the nature of the problem or the service requesting or desired to be performed for the customer. Based on the capabilities skills and or training of the store associate the store associate determines or qualifies step the type of service or work to be performed. In one embodiment the store associate or a technician onsite at the consumer outlet may determine step the problem is hardware related or requires a hardware repair. In this case the store associate may send step the device or a part of the device for repair or service to a hardware repair service or depot. In another embodiment the store associate or an onsite technician determines diagnostics needs to be performed or additional work needs to be performed to qualify the problem. In other embodiments the store associate identifies the type of service or work to be performed on the device. The store associate or another resource at the consumer outlet may connect step the device to the internet interface via the point of service . In some embodiments the device may be connected to an appliance or device designed and constructed to automatically allow remote access connectivity via the network from the Internet Interface and or Interface Switch. The store associate may enter information on the device the service to be performed or the nature of the problem via a user interface. This information is submitted to the Internet Switch via the Internet Interface. In some cases this information or a portion thereof is updated or manually entered in a CRM system.

The submitted service or work request is assigned to a queue for a pool of resource. The Intelligent Switch determines step the work type from the submitted information and assigns the work to an appropriate pool of resources or queue . The Intelligent Switch of the centralized service determines step a remote technician is available to perform the work type for the queue and contacts step the remote technician with instructions to service the queue . A connection is established step between the remote technician and the device . The technician services step the device or attempts to service the requested device in communication with the centralized service . In one embodiment the device is serviced by the remote technician using remote support system software such as GoToAssist manufactured by Citrix Online LLC of Santa Barbara Calif. part of Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. In one embodiment the remote technician may log information into the CRM system regarding the service performed and the results thereof. In some embodiments the remote technician provides information on the device regarding the service performed and the results thereof.

The remote technician disconnects step from the device . The Intelligent Switch or the remote technician provides any type and form of notice or communication to the store associate regarding status of the service such as notice the work has been completed. The Store Associate interfaces with the customer bills the customer and closes the service ticket or request.

The following depicts an example of an embodiment of steps of a method performed by the store associate in using the techniques described herein 

In some embodiments the store associate determines step if the device can be repaired remotely or if a diagnostic is required to determine if it can be repaired remotely. Many computers have problems that a technician must review to see if they are of software or hardware nature. In some embodiments obvious or blatant hardware issues relate to physical devices which are not working such as power supplies computer screens and disk drives. Connectivity issues are those problems which prohibit a computer from being connected to a network such as the Internet. In some of these cases a phone directed call may result in the computer connection being restored.

In other embodiments the store associate collects step and provides information to make sure that the to be assigned remote technician is provided with information on what work needs to be done or the nature of the problem. The store associate may enter this information via a web form of the Internet Interface or Internet Switch. In one embodiment the web form may provide a text field to describe the work or the selection of work type. In another embodiment the web form text or selections is used to automatically communicate to the technician what work needs to be done. In still another embodiment the web form may include fields or selections to identify the device. In yet another embodiment the device identifying information is used assure that any work on a machine is tracked for example completely from end to end of the process. Otherwise a technician may perform incorrect work on a computer or device and not be able to track which service was performed on what device.

The following depicts an example of an embodiment of steps of a method performed by a remote technician or agent in using the techniques described herein 

In one embodiment the remote agent or technician uses any combination of the desktop connectivity software Intelligent switch software and or CRM software to deliver and perform services on a device at the consumer outlet . For example the remote technician may use the remote technical support services of PlumChoice Online PC Services of Billerica Mass. to deliver services. The remote technician may use any type and form of desktop connectivity software such as those provided or manufactured by Citrix e.g. GoToAssist WebEx LogMeIn or Microsoft. In one embodiment the remote technician uses software and solutions by Telvisio of Foster City Calif. In some embodiments remote desktop connectivity software provides the agent with the ability to see the desktop of the device and control the device remotely as if the technician were sitting in front of the device .

The Intelligent Switch provides the connection of work to a specific pool or queue of resource and the assignment and dispatching of the work to a specific available technician to perform the work. The Intelligent Switch is designed and constructed to accept input from the store associate or customer from which to determine the work required and perform the intelligent switching. In some embodiments the Intelligent Switch may use any customer call center software and solutions manufactured by Aspect Software Inc. of Irvine Calif. A CRM software system may be used to track the work that is performed so that both the personnel at the consumer outlet and the technical agent can track the work and status of the work performed on a specific device . One embodiment of the remote technical support system uses a web based custom application to track the status of services although any type of tracking or software service may be used.

In one embodiment when work is completed the computer or device at the consumer outlet is disconnected from the remote technician . For example the remote technician may log off the device or terminate the remote desktop sharing connection to the device . In another embodiment the device may be disconnected from the Internet Interface and or Internet Switch. The status of the work may be passed back to the store associate via a message left on the device itself and or via the ticketing system such as a CRM which tracks the work. In some cases the remote technician may communicate directly via phone email or chat Instant messaging with the store associate or customer. In some embodiments the ticketing system information may be used to charge the customer for work done.

The systems and methods of the centralized remote technical support services described above may also be deployed for local onsite services. In these embodiments the solution uses remote services technology to deliver the most appropriate trained technical resource to resolve the customer needs at the customer s home or location. The innovative application of the centralized technology discussed herein with innovative modification to skills and processes for local onsite service improves and optimizes the amount of cost required to deliver services to the home. Without the use of the technology and processes described herein one or more technicians visits the consumer s home or location for an indeterminate period of time and for additional appointments to be scheduled when the work exceeds either the time or the skill of the one or more technicians.

By using the systems and methods described herein the skills of the technician visiting the home may be redefined or re scoped to be associated with connecting devices and enabling connection of the computers to a network or the Internet. The amount of time to perform these tasks is more deterministic and requires a much more focused set of skills. For example an onsite service home service technician may be dispatched for hour hour or other predetermined time increments to perform a preliminary diagnostics and to setup up the service work to the Internet Switch much like the store associate in the consumer outlet scenarios described above. Once the interconnection of the consumer device is complete and the device is hooked up to the Internet Switch remote resources from the centralized service may be connected to complete all the necessary installations configurations training and repairs. As such in these embodiments appropriate skilled resources are applied without the need to send additional technicians to the consumer s location. The onsite technician may leave to attend other service calls once the device is hooked up to the Internet Switch.

A typical example scenario for a local onsite service is that a consumer may call for help because his or her computer is slow lost connectivity to the Internet experiencing lots of pop ups and or perhaps would like to install some new devices. A technician may be assigned a time frame of 1 3 hours reserved to perform the work. When the technician arrives on site he or she may diagnose the problem and may start with a set of tools to fix the problem and then proceed to hook the computer up to the Internet or verify connectivity to the Internet. Once done the technician may start to install new devices and software onto the computer. Without the use of the centralized remote technical services described herein much of the time spent on site is watching the tools fix the problems as they can take a long time to scan and automatically fix problems. In some cases the technician may run out of time or that there will be aspects of the work that will require another visit by a technician with a different set of skills. With the user of the centralized remote technical services described herein a predetermined amount of time may be set for the technician for an onsite visit such as a 1 hour appointment. In that time period the technician may perform a diagnostics and connect and configure the device to be connected to the Internet Switch and pool of remote technical resources. The onsite technician may go to another place to do the same work another home visit for a predetermined amount of time after leaving the computer connected to the centralized remote technical support service. At that point the computer may be assigned from a queue to a remote technician to perform the desired service based on the onsite technician s diagnostics description of the problem or information submitted to the Internet Switch. The remote technician for example may clean and update the software and configuration of the computer and install any new devices. In addition the remote technician may deliver training to the consumer at his home such as live one on one training. If the remote technician performing the service is not the best or appropriate resource to perform the service the connection to the consumer s computer may be transferred electronically and real time to the next appropriate technician with out the need to reschedule an onsite visit.

Referring now to a block diagram of an embodiment of an environment to provide hybrid delivery of remote and local technical support via a centralized service is shown and described. In such an environment an onsite or local technician is assigned to provide service to a device located at a point of service . The local technician provides service to the device for a predetermined time . An issue with the device is identified and communicated to the centralized service . The centralized service includes an issue management system that manages one or more issues . Each issue may include one or more tasks that require one or more skills. A status of the issue is communicated to the point of service from the centralized service . The status may be a function of one or more statuses of the one or more tasks. One or more tasks are assigned by the centralized service to one or more remote technicians . The remote technicians attend to the tasks and communicate a status for each task back to the centralized service . The issue management system may include one or more of an issue task monitoring unit a Quality of Service QoS monitor and a task assignor .

The point of service may be any type and form of premise at any location. In one embodiment the premise may be an outlet of a retailer . In another embodiment the premise may be a home. In still another embodiment the premise may be an office or an office located in a home. In yet another embodiment the premise may be a store or any other location where a consumer has deployed the device . In a further embodiment the premise may be a company. In some embodiments the point of service includes any desktop computer or any device located at any type and form of company business or enterprise. In some embodiments the premise may be a mobile location. In one of these embodiments the premise may be any vehicle such as a car a bus a truck a train a plane or a boat.

In some embodiments the local technician is an employee contractor or any other person related to a company which provides onsite support services. An example of such a company is GEEK SQUAD a subsidiary of BEST BUY of Richfield Minn. The local technician provides onsite technical support to the device . In one embodiment the local technician is a store associate at an outlet of a retailer . In another embodiment the local technician is a traveling technician deployed at the point of service to provide technical support for the device . In one embodiment the local technician is deployed by a customer support group at an outlet or any other location. In another embodiment the technician is deployed by the centralized service . In still another embodiment the technician is deployed responsive to receiving a request for technical support at one of the point of service the outlet or the centralized service . In yet another embodiment the technician is chosen based on the request for technical support.

In one embodiment the local technician receives a communication to provide technical support on the device at the point of service . The communication may be generated by any person or automated service at one of a point of service an outlet or the centralized service . In another embodiment the communication may include details based on the request for technical support including but not limited to nature of the problem time date details of the device history of support provided name or identification of one or more technicians who previously serviced the device location of the device expected turnaround time and one or more skills required to service the request. The communication may be received by the technician in many ways. In one embodiment the communication is sent to a mobile device of the technician via one or more networks . In another embodiment the mobile device may include a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop or any other mobile device as apparent to one skilled in the art. In still another embodiment the technician may receive the communication via email telephone or directly from another individual.

In one embodiment the technician spends a predetermined amount of time at the point of service in providing technical support to the device . In another embodiment the predetermined amount of time is a fixed amount of time. The predetermined amount of time may be fixed set or established by any person. In still another embodiment the predetermined amount of time may be fixed set or established by an automated service. In one embodiment the predetermined amount of time is fixed set or established by the centralized service . In another embodiment the predetermined amount of time is fixed set or established by the customer. In still another embodiment the predetermined amount of time is set by the local technician . In yet another embodiment the predetermined amount of time is pre set by the service provider providing the services described herein. In one embodiment the predetermined amount of time may be set at any predetermined date time or schedule. In another embodiment the predetermined amount of time may be set on the basis of an availability of the local technician . In still another embodiment the predetermined amount of time is an amount of time set or established depending on one or more of nature of the problem availability of the technician demand for the technician nature of the device and feasibility of onsite resolution. In yet another embodiment the time may be extended till a problem is resolved. In some embodiments the predetermined amount of time may be reset re established or re fixed depending on one or more of nature of the problem availability of the technician demand for the technician nature of the device feasibility of onsite resolution and status of resolution. In other embodiments if the problem is not resolved in the predetermined amount of time the technician refers the problem to the centralized service for resolution. In still other embodiments the predetermined amount of time can be in any time units including seconds minutes hours and days.

The predetermined amount of onsite support time may be based on caused by or otherwise determined based on the local technician having or applying a limited scope of skills to the issue and or by limiting the scope of work of the local technicians to a subset of tasks towards resolving the issue. In one embodiment the predetermined amount of time is enabled by restricting the tasks performed by the local technician . In another embodiment the local technician performs a subset of tasks required for resolving an issue. In still another embodiment the predetermined amount of time is fixed set or established on the basis of a predetermined set of tasks that the local technician performs. In yet another embodiment the predetermined amount of time is determined on the basis of time needed by the local technician to perform the predetermined set of tasks.

In some embodiments a local technician is deployed having a predetermined or limited set of skills or certification. For example the local technician may be skilled or certified in an aspect of network connectivity and or Internet connection configuration or diagnostics of the same. Onsite the local technician focuses on resolving any issue related to network connectivity in order to establish connectivity to and or service from the centralized service. In some embodiments the local technicians task is limited to any one or more of the following identifying the issue diagnosing resolving establishing operation of the device to connect to a network or the Internet connecting the device to the Internet and or the centralized service and providing an identification of the issues and other status information to the centralized service. In another embodiment if the technician completes the predetermined scope of tasks prior to expiration of the predetermined time period the technician may continue to work on other tasks in resolving the issue for the customer. In one embodiment the technician may use any remaining time of the predetermined amount of time to upgrade sell or market any products and services to the customer. In other embodiments if the technician completes the predetermined scope of tasks prior to expiration of the predetermined time period the technician may complete his visit and go to the next appointment.

The technician provides many different types of technical support to the device . In one embodiment the technician may replace one or more parts of the device . In another embodiment the technician may provide software installation and or upgrade services to the device . In still another embodiment the technician may run hardware and or software diagnostics on the device . In yet another embodiment the technician may connect the device to the centralized service for further support and or resolution of one or more issues . In one embodiment the technician connects the device to the centralized service via an intermediate device not shown . In another embodiment the technician installs an agent on the device to connect the device to the centralized system . In still another embodiment the technician transports the device to another location such as another point of service or an outlet to connect the device to the centralized service . In a further embodiment the technician identifies one or more issues for resolution of the problem and communicates the issues to the centralized service . In one embodiment the local technician has a limited skill set of providing connectivity to the centralized service . In another embodiment the local technician may have a skill set to perform one or more of the following provide remote support diagnose issues provide remote connectivity replace hardware back up data load operating system install software reload data onto the device set up and configure the device and integrate the device into an environment. In still another embodiment the local technician may have a skill set to work within a predetermined amount of time.

The local technician may communicate with the centralized service using any type and form of communications and or devices. In one embodiment the local technician logs into the centralized service via the device . In another embodiment the local technician logs into the centralized service via a mobile device such as a smartphone personal assistant PDA a BLACKBERRY device or an IPHONE. In still another embodiment the local technician uses any other laptop desktop or computing device to log into the centralized service . In one embodiment the local technician records or creates a log of services provided onsite. In another embodiment the log of services may include but are not limited to the following information name and or identification of the local technician skillset of the local technician time nature of problem details of the device list of operations performed on the device results of the operations identification of an issue identification of one or more tasks status of resolution comments suggestions and any other information relevant to providing technical support to the device. In still another embodiment the log of services may be created using a software agent running on the device and in communication with the centralized service . In yet another embodiment the log of services may be created using a web interface. In some embodiments the centralized service determines based on the log of services whether there is an issue that may be resolved by one or more remote technicians.

The centralized service may log record or capture in any form and format any and all activity performed occurring or related to use of the centralized service and or providing of support services including but not limited to telephone communications email communications application use fax communications login logout to device activity and system application and operating events. The centralized service may use any type and form of timestamp or mechanism for temporal recording of activities. In some embodiments the centralized service captures the remote login session to the device to record all the activity from the point of connection to logoff. In some of these embodiments the centralized service can play back a copy of the entire support session or any portion thereof. In one embodiment the centralized service may filter any of the recorded or logged information based on any criteria. In another embodiment the centralized service may log record or capture any activity in resolving or support a customer s issue across multiple remote technicians and may include the activity of the local technician. The local technician may log onto the centralized service as soon as possible at the start of the service or any time during the predetermined amount of time to have the centralized service log the local technician s activities as they occur.

In some embodiments one or more issues are communicated to the centralized service . In one of these embodiments the one or more issues are communicated from the device . In another of these embodiments the one or more issues are communicated to the centralized service via one or more of the point of service the local technician a device of the local technician and one or more intermediate devices including but not limited to servers computers networks hubs routers proxies and any other devices as apparent to one skilled in the art. In one embodiment the issue is one that cannot be resolved by the skill set of the local technician . In another embodiment the issue is one that cannot be resolved by the local technician within the predetermined amount of time . In still another embodiment the issue cannot be resolved by the local technician with the resources available to the technician . In yet another embodiment the issue requires further support to the service performed onsite by the local technician . In some embodiments the issue includes multiple tasks one or more of which cannot be performed by the local technician . In one of these embodiments one or more of the multiple tasks cannot be performed by the local technician within the predetermined amount of time .

In one embodiment the centralized service includes an issue management system to manage the one or more issues . The issue management system provides one or more functionalities to manage and or resolve the one or more issues . In one embodiment the issue management system includes an issue task monitoring unit that monitors the status of one more issue and or tasks related to an issue . In another embodiment the issue management system includes a quality of service QoS monitor that provides quality control to one or more functionalities of the system . In still another embodiment the issue management system includes a task assignor that manages assignment and or reassignment of one or more tasks. In some embodiments the issue management system is implemented as a software. In one of these embodiments the issue management system includes one or more applications and or programs. In another of these embodiments the issue management system executes on one or more devices housing the centralized service . In another embodiment the issue management system is implemented as a hardware unit. In still another embodiment the issue management unit is implemented as a distributed service software over one or more hardware units. In still another embodiment the issue management unit includes both hardware and software components. In yet other embodiments the issue management unit may include any file library executable code rule engine database and other software as apparent to one skilled in the art. In some embodiments the issue management unit communicates with one or more local technicians and one or more remote technicians. In one of these embodiments the issue management unit includes an interface to communicate with the one or more technicians.

In one embodiment the issue management system includes the issue task monitoring unit . In another embodiment the issue task monitoring unit monitors the statuses of one or more tasks. In still another embodiment the issue task monitoring unit communicates the status of issue to one of the device the point of service or a device of the local technician . The issue task monitoring unit may monitor the statuses of the tasks and or the issue in many ways. In one embodiment updates about the statuses of the one or more tasks may be pushed to the issue task monitoring unit as they are received at the centralized unit . In another embodiment the issue task monitoring unit polls the statuses of the tasks to receive the updates. In still another embodiment the issue task monitoring unit communicates with the task assignor and or the quality of service monitor to provide information on the status of the tasks and or issue. In one embodiment the issue task monitoring unit is implemented as an integrated part of the issue management system . In another embodiment the issue task monitoring unit is implemented as a separate software and or hardware unit. For example the issue task monitoring unit may be implemented as a function or subroutine. In still other embodiments execution of the software for the issue monitoring unit may be distributed over one or more hardware units.

The task assignor manages assigning of the one or more tasks to one or more remote technicians in general . In one embodiment the task assignor is a part of the intelligent switch as described with reference to . In another embodiment the task assignor includes a policy engine that operates on the basis of a set of rules . In still another embodiment the task assignor communicates with the technician database to choose one or more remote technicians for one or more tasks. In yet another embodiment the task assignor assigns a technician to a task on the basis of one or more capabilities of the technician corresponding to one or more service level attribute identified for the task. In one embodiment the task assignor assigns a task to a work queue . In another embodiment the task assignor communicates with the queue manager to manage assignment and or reassignment of tasks to one or more queues. The technician database remote technicians capabilities service level attributes policy engine rules queue and queue manager are described with reference to .

In some embodiments the task assignor communicates with the issue task monitoring unit and QoS monitor to manage assignment of the tasks. For example if the issue task monitoring unit reports that a technician has not updated the status of an assigned task C and or a last update of status C indicates that task C is not being completed as expected the task assignor reassigns the whole or part of task C as task C to another technician . In other embodiments the task assignor receives feedback from the QoS monitor to determine if the quality of service for a task satisfies the predetermined service threshold . In one embodiment if the quality of service falls below the predetermined service threshold the task assignor reassigns the task to another technician. In one embodiment the task assignor manages assignments and reassignments of local technicians to provide onsite technical support.

The QoS monitor may be implemented in any way and on any device. In one embodiment the QoS monitor is implemented as software and may include one or more of subroutines files libraries and executable codes. In another embodiment the QoS monitor may include one or more parameters defining the predetermined service threshold . In still another embodiment the QoS monitor includes one or more hardware units. In some embodiments the QoS monitor executes a plurality of logical mathematical and Boolean operations. In one of these embodiments the QoS monitor performs comparisons and or calculations on one or more attributes of the tasks and one or more attributes and or parameters related to the predetermined service threshold .

One or more issues may be identified for the device . In one embodiment the one or more issues are identified by the local technician . In another embodiment the one or more issues are identified by the customer. In still another embodiment the one or more issues are identified by the centralized service . In yet another embodiment one or more of the centralized service the customer and the local technician participate in identifying the one or more issues . In one embodiment the one or more issues are addressed and or resolved to complete the request for technical support. An issue may include several attributes. In one embodiment resolving an issue may include completion or execution of one or more tasks task A task B task C task N etc. . In another embodiment execution of each task may require a separate skill. For example completing or executing task A may require skill A completing task B may require skill B and completing task C may require skill C. In still another embodiment one or more tasks may require one skill or a combination of skills. As an example task A and task N may require skill C and task C may require one or more of skill A skill B and skill N. In some embodiments each of the tasks has a status. In one of these embodiments the status of the issue may depend on one or more of the task statuses.

In one embodiment each of the tasks has to be completed to resolve the issue . In another embodiment resolution of the issue may include completion of one or more essential tasks and one or more optional tasks. In still another embodiment the issue may be resolved via completion of the one or more essential tasks. In yet another embodiment completion of one or more tasks may be dependent on completion of one or more other tasks. As an example completing task A may be dependent on completion of tasks B and C. In such cases the tasks are completed in a predetermined order. In a further embodiment the tasks may be completed in any order. In some embodiments all or some of the tasks are prioritized.

In some embodiments the tasks for resolving the issue are determined by the local technician . In other embodiments the tasks for resolving the issue are determined by the centralized service . In still other embodiments the local technician and the centralized service work in conjunction to determine the tasks for resolving the issue . In one embodiment the local technician and or the centralized service may modify or delete one or more tasks determined by the local technician and or the centralized service . In another embodiment the centralized service and or the local technician determines the tasks based on one or more attributes of the issue . In one embodiment one or more mathematical statistical logical or Boolean operations are performed by the centralized service on one or more attributes of the issue to determine the tasks for resolving the issue . In another embodiment the tasks for resolving the issue may be determined by a software agent executing on the device . In still another embodiment the software agent may communicate with one or more of the local technician and the centralized service in determining the tasks. In some embodiments one or more remote technicians determine or identify the issues of the customer with or without the local technician.

In one embodiment the centralized service identifies one or more skills required for completion of each of the tasks. In another embodiment the centralized service identifies the one or more skills based on an identification of a work type . In still another embodiment the work type for each task is identified by one or more service level attributes . In yet another embodiment skill is identified as a service level attribute . Work type and service level attributes are described with reference to .

The centralized service provides one or more updates on the issue by providing a status of the issue . In one embodiment the status includes information on what percentage of the issue has been resolved. In another embodiment the status may include one or more queries requiring a feedback from one of the device the point of service or the local technician . In still another embodiment the status includes identification of statuses of one or more tasks. In yet another embodiment the status identifies which tasks have been completed and or which tasks are pending. In some embodiments the statuses of the one or more tasks are communicated to the centralized device from a corresponding remote technician attending to the task. In a further embodiment the status is derived from the one or more statuses of the tasks identified to resolve the issue .

Referring now to a flow diagram depicting steps of an embodiment of a method to provide and manage hybrid delivery of remote and local technical support via a centralized service is described. In one embodiment the method includes deploying step a local technician at a point of service to provide onsite technical support to a device. An issue with the device and one or more tasks for resolving the issue are identified step and the local technician performs step one or more tasks for the issue. The centralized service assigns step one or more tasks to resolve the issue to one or more remote technicians and monitors step the statuses of the one or more tasks.

The local technician is deployed step at the point of service to perform one of a plurality of possible tasks. In one embodiment the local technician performs a diagnostic test on the device . In another embodiment the technician identifies one or more issues with the device that are to be resolved. In still another embodiment the technician identifies one or more tasks associated with each issue. In another embodiment the technician performs service on the device to resolve one or more issues and or tasks. In yet another embodiment the technician connects the device to the centralized service . In one embodiment the technician checks repairs troubleshoots or establishes a connectivity of the device to the internet and or the centralized service. In further embodiments the local technician may perform any task or function such as the ones described with reference to .

In one embodiment the technician is deployed to spend a predetermined amount of time at the point of service in providing technical support to the device . The predetermined amount of time is may be fixed set or established by any person or automated service such as the centralized service the customer or the local technician . In another embodiment the technician is deployed for the predetermined amount of time as pre set by the service provider providing the services described herein. In one embodiment the technician may be deployed at any predetermined date time or schedule. In another embodiment the technician may be deployed on the basis of an availability of the technician . In still another embodiment the technician may be deployed for a predetermined amount of time depending on one or more of nature of the problem availability of the technician demand for the technician nature of the device and feasibility of onsite resolution. In yet another embodiment the technician may be deployed for a time extended till a problem is resolved. In other embodiments if the problem is not resolved in the predetermined amount of time the deployed technician refers the problem to the centralized service for resolution. In one embodiment the technician is deployed responsive to a customer contacting the centralized service about the device. In another embodiment the customer may contact the centralized service via a website email or any other form of electronic communication. In other embodiments the customer may contact persons associated with the centralized service via phone postal mail or helpdesk services. In still other embodiments the deployed technician is selected based on information on the device provided by the customer. The centralized service may select the appropriate or desired local technician to deploy onsite based on information received from the customer. Via this customer contact a pre evaluation of the issue may occur to determine the nature of the issues and the technician to deploy onsite. This may be done in cases when the customer cannot first connect to the device to the Internet and or the centralized service.

In one embodiment one or more issues and or tasks to resolve the one or more issues are identified step . In one embodiment the one or more issues are identified by the local technician . In another embodiment the one or more issues are identified by the centralized service . In still another embodiment the local technician and the centralized service identifies one or more tasks to resolve the issue. In yet another embodiment the local technician may work in cooperation with the centralized system to identify the one or more issues and or one or more tasks. In a further embodiment the local technician and the centralized service exchange information with each other in identifying the one or more issues and or one or more tasks. In some embodiments the tasks are identified based on a predetermined checklist or template. In one of these embodiments the checklist or template is parsed for each issue to determine a list of tasks related to the issue. In another of these embodiments the checklist or template is prepopulated with known issues and the corresponding tasks. In still another of these embodiments the checklist or template is adaptively created and or modified.

The local technician performs step one or more tasks to resolve one or more of the identified issues . In one embodiment the local technician performs a part of one or more tasks. In another embodiment the technician performs the one or more tasks for a predetermined amount of time . In still another embodiment the technician completes all parts of one or more tasks if within skill level and or time available to the technician. In one embodiment the technician works in communication with the centralized service to perform the one or more tasks. In another embodiment the technician may collaborate consult or coordinate with one or more other local technicians and or one or more remote technicians . In still another embodiment performing the one or more tasks include installing an agent or other software to connect the device to the internet and or the centralized service .

The centralized service assigns step one or more tasks to resolve the issue to one or more remote technicians . In one embodiment the assignment is done responsive to receiving a communication from one of the device or the local technician such as a status of the issue . In another embodiment a task assignor of the centralized service manages the assigning of the one or more tasks to the one or more remote technicians. In yet another embodiment the centralized service reassigns to one or more technicians one or more tasks previously assigned to one or more other remote technicians . In one embodiment the assignment and or reassignment of tasks is done on the basis of one or more of skill type required or desired for the task one or more attributes of the task capabilities of the remote technicians statuses of the tasks and or issues and availabilities of the remote technicians. In another embodiment the centralized service assigns the one or more tasks to one or more queues . In still another embodiment the queue manager of the centralized service manages assignments and reassignments to the queues .

In one embodiment the assigning of step includes deploying one or more local technicians to provide onsite support at the point of service . In another embodiment one or more additional local technicians are deployed or assigned to provide onsite support based on communication received from the local technician previously deployed. In still another embodiment one or more local technicians are deployed responsive to the centralized service receiving a request for providing technical support on a device located at a point of service .

The centralized service monitors step the issue and or the status of one or more tasks for resolution of the issue . In one embodiment the monitoring includes determining if the support provided by the one or more remote and or local technicians satisfies a predetermined service level threshold . In another embodiment the monitoring includes determining if a task assigned to a remote technician is completed within a reasonable time. In still another embodiment the centralized service reassigns and or escalates a task to a different remote or local technician responsive to determining that a task assigned to a technician is not serviced within a reasonable time and or the service provided fails to satisfy the predetermined service level threshold . In yet another embodiment the centralized service may escalate a task to a high priority status on monitoring that a critical event has occurred. In a further embodiment the monitoring may include communicating with the queue manager to determine availability of one or more remote and or local technicians. In another embodiment the monitoring includes determining if the issue is resolved within a predetermined amount of time.

In view of the structure functions and apparatus of the systems and methods described here the present solution provides a dynamic efficient and intelligent system for providing hybrid technical support including local and remote technical support to devices via a centralized service. Having described certain embodiments of methods and systems for providing the hybrid technical support it will now become apparent to one of skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating the concepts of the invention may be used. Therefore the invention should not be limited to certain embodiments but rather should be limited only by the spirit and scope of the following claims 

