---

title: System for and method of measuring caller interactions during a call session
abstract: A system for and method of monitoring caller interactions during a call session is presented. The system and method for monitoring caller interaction may include receiving information from a call session between a caller and an automated voice portal system via a communication network, monitoring caller interaction points accumulated during the call session, comparing a sum of caller interaction points accumulated during the call session with the automated voice portal system with the caller interaction threshold, and taking one or more actions in response to the sum of the caller interaction points exceeds the caller interaction threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08848882&OS=08848882&RS=08848882
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08848882
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100707
---
Today voice portals are becoming a popular platform for automating inbound and outbound voice customer cares by various companies across industries. Voice portals play a vital role in providing customers with automated self service information and transfer customers to service agents when necessary. However the current automated voice portals are ill equipped to measure caller interaction during a call session.

An exemplary embodiment provides a system and a process for measuring a caller interactions during a call session. For example a caller interaction measurement system may monitor caller interactions with an automated voice portal for the duration of a call session. The caller interaction measurement system may monitor the caller interaction based at least in part on various parameters. The various parameters that the caller interaction measurement system may monitor includes at least one of misrecognitions by the automated voice portal system caller s tone pitch language used previous call sessions or other parameters associated with caller interactions. During a call session the caller interaction measurement system may monitor various parameters associated with the call session to determine whether to transfer the caller to a live agent.

In an exemplary embodiment the caller interaction measurement system may monitor caller interactions in real time during a call session. For example the caller interaction measurement system may assign caller interactions points to various parameters of a call session. The caller interaction measurement system may monitor total number of caller interaction points during a call session. The caller interaction measurement system may determine caller interaction threshold of a caller based at least in part on a previous call session. The caller interaction measurement system may compare the total number of caller interaction points with the caller interaction threshold. The caller interaction measurement system may determine whether to transfer the caller to a live agent based at least in part on the comparison of the total number of caller interaction points with the caller interaction threshold.

The automated voice portal system may include a plurality of prompt modules . Each prompt module may provide different information to a caller during a call session. For example the plurality of prompt modules may provide the caller with information without requesting a response from the caller. In an exemplary embodiment the prompt modules may provide callers with information based at least in part on a caller profile or a caller response. In an exemplary embodiment a prompt module may play a personal Welcome greeting to a caller based at least in part on a caller profile. During a call session a prompt module may play Welcome John Doe to the automated Voice Portal System when a caller named John Doe establishes the call session with the automated voice portal system . In another exemplary embodiment the prompt modules may provide a statement balance to a caller based at least in part on a caller response. For example a prompt module may provide a statement balance based at least in part on a caller response requesting the statement balance. 

The automated voice portal system may include a plurality of interactive modules . For example the plurality of interactive modules may require a unit of interaction between the caller and the automated voice portal system during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the unit of interaction may comprise an interactive module presenting a question to a caller and receive a response to the question from the caller during a call session. For example the plurality of interactive modules may include a predetermined set of grammars associated with a question presented to a caller. The predetermined set of grammars may include one or more acceptable responses to a question presented to a caller. In an exemplary embodiment the interactive modules may receive a response e.g. verbal speech to a question. The interactive modules may match the received response e.g. verbal speech to a predetermined set of grammars associated with a question. In the event that the received response matches the predetermined set of grammars the automated voice portal system may perform one or more actions based at least in part on the received response.

In an exemplary embodiment an interactive module may present a caller a selection question e.g. select from one of the options billing ordering and tech support. . The predetermined set of grammars associated with the selection question may include billing bill statement monthly statement charges order new service new product tech support technical support technical assistance or other acceptable responses associated with the selection question. A caller may provide a response to the selection question. The interactive module may attempt to match the response provided by the caller to the predetermined set of grammars associated with the selection question. In the event that the response provided by the caller matches the predetermined set of grammars e.g. billing the interactive module may execute one or more actions associated with the billing option. In the event that the response provided by the caller does not match the predetermined set of grammars the interactive module may perform one or more predetermined actions e.g. repeat the question propose an acceptable response or transfer to a live agent .

The automated voice portal system may include one or more servers. For example the automated voice portal system may include a UNIX based server Windows 2000 Server Microsoft IIS server Apache HTTP server API server Java server Java Servlet API server ASP server PHP server HTTP server Mac OS X server Oracle server IP server or other independent server to establish a call session with a plurality of caller station N via the communication network . Also the automated voice portal system may include one or more Internet Protocol IP network server or public switch telephone network PSTN server. The automated voice portal system may simultaneously establish a plurality of call sessions with a plurality of caller stations N via the communication network .

The automated voice portal system may include one or more storage devices including without limitation paper card storage punched card tape storage paper tape magnetic tape disk storage gramophone record floppy disk hard disk ZIP disk holographic molecular memory. The one or more storage devices may also include without limitation optical disc CD ROM CD R CD RW DVD DVD R DVD RW DVD R DVD RW DVD RAM Blu ray Minidisc HVD and Phase change Dual storage device. The one or more storage devices may further include without limitation magnetic bubble memory magnetic drum core memory core rope memory thin film memory twistor memory flash memory memory card semiconductor memory solid state semiconductor memory or any other like mobile storage devices.

The communication network may be coupled to the automated voice portal system the plurality of caller stations N and the caller interaction measurement system . The communication network may be a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example the communication network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku or Band Ka a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal. In addition the communication network may include without limitation telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 wide area network WAN local area network LAN or global network such as the Internet. The communication network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof.

The communication network may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Although the communication network is depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments the communication network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example a service provider network the Internet a broadcaster s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

The plurality of caller stations N may be a phone a cellular communication device a wireless telephone a mobile device a computer a personal computer a laptop a workstation a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin system a fat system a network appliance an Internet browser or other any other device that may establish a call session with the automated voice portal system via the communication network .

The caller interaction measurement system may include one or more servers. For example the caller interaction measurement system may include a UNIX based server Windows 2000 Server Microsoft IIS server Apache HTTP server API server Java server Java Servlet API server ASP server PHP server HTTP server Mac OS X server Oracle server IP server or other independent server to monitor caller interactions between a caller and the automated voice portal system in real time during a call session. Also the caller interaction measurement system may include one or more Internet Protocol IP network server or public switch telephone network PSTN server. The caller interaction measurement system may monitor caller interactions with the automated voice portal system during a plurality of call sessions with a plurality of caller stations N via the communication network .

The caller interaction measurement system may include one or more storage devices including without limitation paper card storage punched card tape storage paper tape magnetic tape disk storage gramophone record floppy disk hard disk ZIP disk holographic molecular memory. The one or more storage devices may also include without limitation optical disc CD ROM CD R CD RW DVD DVD R DVD RW DVD R DVD RW DVD RAM Blu ray Minidisc HVD and Phase change Dual storage device. The one or more storage devices may further include without limitation magnetic bubble memory magnetic drum core memory core rope memory thin film memory twistor memory flash memory memory card semiconductor memory solid state semiconductor memory or any other like mobile storage devices.

The presentation module may provide an interface between the caller interaction measurement system and a user e.g. administrator associated with the caller interaction measurement system . The presentation module may include a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface an application programming interface API to interact with the users associated with the caller interaction measurement system . The presentation module may receive one or more queries or requests from a user and to provide the received queries or requests to other modules of the caller interaction measurement system . The presentation module may provide queries or requests to the processing module wherein the queries or requests may determine an operation of various modules of the caller interaction measurement system . In response to receiving a query or request from a user the presentation module may provide the queries or requests e.g. control signals etc. to the input module the processing module the database module the misrecognition module the caller tone pitch module the language module and the historical data module . In an exemplary embodiment the user may request that the caller interaction measurement system to monitor caller interactions between a caller and the automated voice portal system in real time during a call session.

The presentation module may present information or data to the user via a display associated with the caller interaction measurement system . The presentation module may display upon a user s query or request or the presentation module may automatically display information or data to the user. In an exemplary embodiment the presentation module may provide information or data associated with caller interactions with the automated voice portal system during a call session. For example the presentation module may provide information or data to inform the user that the caller s interaction e.g. increasing in agitation or frustration with the automated voice portal system during a call session. In another exemplary embodiment the presentation module may provide information or data of various parameters associated with caller interactions with the automated voice portal system in real time during a call session. For example the presentation module may provide a message to inform the user a number of misrecognitions by the automated voice portal system during a call session. The presentation module may provide a message to inform the user that a caller raises tone or pitch e.g. measured by decibels dB . The presentation module may provide a message to inform the user that a caller uses derogatory or critical languages. In other exemplary embodiments the presentation module may provide information or data to solicit a response from the user. For example the presentation module may solicit a response from the user to determine whether to transfer a caller to a live agent during a call session.

In another exemplary embodiment the presentation module may include manual inputs having one or more keyboards receiver video camera speaker phone and or key pad for inputting information. Also the presentation module may include a DTMF signal generator having DTMF keys to generate numerical signals and text signals. In an exemplary embodiment a user associated with the caller interaction measurement system may input one or more queries or requests. In an other exemplary embodiment the user associated with the caller interaction measurement system may input a voice command or a video command via the presentation module to generate one or more queries or commands.

The input module may include one or more interfaces for receiving information or data in real time associated with a call session. For example the input module may include a signaling system number 7 SS7 interface a session initiation protocol SIP interface a public switch telephone network PSTN interface a voice over Internet protocol VoIP interface an Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS interface an advanced intelligent network AIN interface or other interfaces for transmitting and receiving information or data in real time from a call session via the communication network .

The input module may preprocess e.g. filter sort format and aggregate the information or data of a call session before transferring the information or data to the processing module . In an exemplary embodiment the preprocessing of the information or data of a call session performed by the input module may include filtering the information of a call session and eliminating erroneous or defective e.g. inaudible speech background noise information of a call session. Also the input module may sort the information of a call session in a sequential order converting the messages into desired format e.g. convert analog signals to digital signals and formatting the information of a call session for transmission e.g. format the information of a call session according to desired protocols for transmission .

The misrecognition module may monitor a rate of misrecognitions by the automated voice portal system . In an exemplary embodiment a misrecognition by the automated voice portal system may require a caller to repeat a response and as the rate of misrecognition increases during a call session the caller may become agitated or frustrated with the call session. The misrecognition module may calculate and record a rate of misrecognition associated with the plurality of interactive modules of the automated voice portal system . For example the misrecognition module may calculate an average rate of misrecognition associated with an interactive module by dividing a number of misrecognition associated with an interactive module by a total number of calls accessing the interactive module . The misrecognition module may categorize the plurality of interactive modules of the automated voice portal system based at least in part on a rate of misrecognition associated with each interactive module . The misrecognition module may categorize the plurality of interactive modules into one or more groups. In an exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may categorize an interactive module into a default group. The misrecognition module may modify the categorization of the plurality of interactive modules based at least in part on a variation in a rate of misrecognition associated with each of the plurality of interactive modules

In an exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may categorize the plurality of interactive modules into three groups. For example the misrecognition module may categorize the plurality of interactive modules into an easy group a moderate group and a difficult group. In an exemplary embodiment the easy group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules having a high rate of recognition e.g. or low rate of misrecognition of responses provided by the caller. The easy group of interactive modules may require responses from a caller that may be easily matched with a predetermined set of grammars associated with the one or more interactive modules . For example the easy group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may have a rate of recognition in a predetermined range. In an exemplary embodiment the easy group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may have a rate of recognition in a range between 67 100 . In another exemplary embodiment the easy group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive module that may require a simple answer e.g. 1 5 syllables that may be easily matched to a predetermined set of grammars. For example the easy group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may require yes no 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 answers.

In another exemplary embodiment the moderate group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules having a moderate or fair rate of recognition of responses provided by the caller. The moderate group of interactive modules may require responses from a caller that may be moderately matched with a predetermined set of grammars associated with the one or more interactive modules . For example the moderate group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may have a rate of recognition in a predetermined range. In an exemplary embodiment the moderate group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may have a rate of recognition in a range between 34 66 . In another exemplary embodiment the moderate group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may require a moderate answer e.g. 6 10 syllables that may be moderately matched to a predetermined set of grammars. For example the moderate group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may require billing payment order or technical assistance answers.

In other exemplary embodiments the difficult group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules having low rate of recognition of responses provided by the caller. The difficult group of interactive modules may require responses from a caller that may be difficult to match with a predetermined set of grammars associated with the one or more interactive modules . For example the difficult group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may have a rate of recognition in a predetermined range. In an exemplary embodiment the difficult group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may have a rate of recognition in a range between 0 33 . In another exemplary embodiment the difficult group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may require a difficult answer e.g. 15 25 syllables that may be difficult to match to a predetermined set of grammars. For example the difficult group of interactive modules may include one or more interactive modules that may require last Monday an hour ago or 23of February answers.

The misrecognition module may determine caller interactions with the automated voice portal system based at least in part on a rate of misrecognition by the interactive modules . For example the misrecognition module may assign caller interaction points associated with each group of interactive modules . In an exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may assign a large number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x 2 where x denotes a unit of frustration for a misrecognition associated with the easy group of interactive modules . The misrecognition module may assign a medium number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x 4 where x denotes a unit of frustration for a misrecognition associated with the moderate group of interactive modules . The misrecognition module may assign a small number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x 6 where x denotes a unit of frustration for a misrecognition associated with the difficult group of interactive modules . For example the large number of positive caller interaction points assigned for a misrecognition associated with the easy group of interactive modules may represent that callers are not used to misrecognition with the easy group of interactive modules . In contrast the small number of positive caller interaction points assigned for a misrecognition associated with the difficult group of interactive modules may represent that callers are used to misrecognition with the difficult group of interactive modules

The misrecognition module may monitor a number of misrecognitions associated with each of the plurality of interactive modules during a call session. For example the misrecognition module may record and store a number of misrecognitions associated with each of the plurality of interactive modules during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may record a number of misrecognitions associated with the easy group of interactive modules a number of misrecognitions associated with the moderate group of interactive modules a number of misrecognitions associated with the difficult group of interactive modules during a call session. The misrecognition module may record and store a number of positive caller interaction points associated with misrecognition during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may record a number of positive caller interaction points for misrecognition associated with the easy group of interactive modules a number of positive caller interaction points for misrecognition associated with the moderate group of interactive modules a number of positive caller interaction points for misrecognition associated with the difficult group of interactive modules during a call session.

In another exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may determine caller interaction with the automated voice portal system based at least in part on good recognitions by the interactive modules . For example the misrecognition module may assign negative caller interaction points associated with good recognition of each group of interactive modules . In an exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may assign a small number of negative caller interaction points e.g. x 6 where x denotes a unit of frustration for a good recognition associated with the easy group of interactive modules . The misrecognition module may assign a medium number of negative caller interaction points e.g. x 4 where x denotes a unit of frustration for a good recognition associated with the moderate group of interactive modules . The misrecognition module may assign a large number of negative caller interaction points e.g. x 2 where x denotes a unit of frustration for a good recognition associated with the difficult group of interactive modules . For example the large number of negative caller interaction points assigned for a good recognition associated with the difficult group of interactive modules may represent that callers are not used to good recognition with the difficult group of interactive modules . In contrast the small number of negative caller interaction points assigned for a good recognition associated with the easy group of interactive modules may represent that callers are used to good recognition with the easy group of interactive modules

The misrecognition module may monitor a number of good recognitions associated with each of the plurality of interactive modules during a call session. For example the misrecognition module may record and store a number of good recognitions associated with each of the plurality of interactive modules during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may record a number of good recognitions associated with the easy group of interactive modules a number of good recognitions associated with the moderate group of interactive modules a number of good recognitions associated with the difficult group of interactive modules during a call session. The misrecognition module may record and store a number of negative caller interaction points associated with good recognition during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may record a number of negative caller interaction points for good recognition associated with the easy group of interactive modules a number of negative caller interaction points for good recognition associated with the moderate group of interactive modules a number of negative caller interaction points for good recognition associated with the difficult group of interactive modules during a call session.

In other exemplary embodiments the misrecognition module may monitor a number of consecutive misrecognitions during a call session. For example the misrecognition module may monitor a number of consecutive misrecognitions for a combination of the easy group of interactive modules the moderate group of interactive modules and the difficult group of interactive modules . In another exemplary embodiment the misrecognition module may monitor a number of consecutive misrecognitions for the easy group of interactive modules . The misrecognition module may monitor a number of consecutive misrecognitions for the moderate group of interactive modules . The misrecognition module may monitor a number of consecutive misrecognitions for the difficult group of interactive modules

The caller tone pitch module may monitor speech of a caller during a call session to determine caller interactions with the automated voice portal system . For example the caller tone pitch module may monitor tone pitch loudness or other characteristics associated with a speech of a caller during a call session. The caller tone pitch module may include a voice analyzer a voice stress analyzer decibel meter or other speech analyzers. In an exemplary embodiment a caller may become agitated or frustrated with the automated voice portal system and may vary a speech pattern e.g. raising voice during a call session. The caller tone pitch module may monitor the variation in speech pattern of a caller during a call session to determine caller interactions with the automated voice portal system .

In an exemplary embodiment the caller tone pitch module may monitor a change in the volume e.g. in decibel dB of a caller s speech during a call session. The caller tone pitch module may categorize a level of change in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session. The caller tone pitch module may categorize the level of change in volume of a caller s speech during a call session in a plurality of predetermined range of decibels dBs . In an exemplary embodiment the caller tone pitch module may categorize a first level as a change between 0 2 decibels dBs in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session. The caller tone pitch module may categorize a second level as a change between 3 5 decibels dBs in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session. The caller tone pitch module may categorize a third level as a change above 5 decibels dBs in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session.

The caller tone pitch module may assign a number of caller interaction points to each level of change in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the caller tone pitch module may assign a small number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x 3 where x denotes one unit of frustration to the first level of change in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session. The caller tone pitch module may assign a medium number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x 2 wherein x denotes one unit of frustration to the second level of change in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session. The caller tone pitch module may assign a large number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x wherein x denotes one unit of frustration to the third level of change in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session.

For example the caller tone pitch module may record and store a number of changes in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the caller tone pitch module may record a number of times the volume of a caller s speech change to first level a number of times the volume of a caller s speech change to second level a number of times the volume of a caller s speech change to third level during a call session. The caller tone pitch module may record and store a number of caller interaction points associated with a caller changing the volume of speech during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the caller tone pitch module may record a number of caller interaction points for changes in the volume of a caller s speech to the first level a number of caller interaction points for changes in the volume of a caller s speech to the second level a number of caller interaction points for changes in the volume of a caller s speech to the third level during a call session.

In other exemplary embodiments the caller tone pitch module may monitor a number of consecutive level changes in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session. For example the caller tone pitch module may monitor a number of consecutive changes in the volume of a caller s speech for a combination of the first level the second level and the third level. In an exemplary embodiment the caller tone pitch module may assign a number of positive caller interaction points e.g. 2x where x denotes a unit of frustration for a consecutive level changes in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session. In another exemplary embodiment the caller tone pitch module may monitor the number of caller interaction points for a consecutive level changes in the volume of a caller s speech during a call session.

The language module may determine caller interactions with the automated voice portal system based at least in part on language used by a caller during a call session. For example a caller may become agitated or frustrated with the automated voice portal system and may use derogatory language during a call session. The language module may monitor and detect the derogatory language during a call session to determine call interactions with the automated voice portal system . In an exemplary embodiment language module may include a speech recognizer speech analyzer or other recognition devices to determine language used by a caller during a call session.

The language module may include a predetermined set of grammars associated with the derogatory language. For example the predetermined set of grammars of the language module may include one or more acceptable responses associated with the derogatory language. The language module may monitor and detect derogatory language used during a call session by matching responses of a caller to the predetermined set of grammars associated with the derogatory language. The language module may match the response of a caller to the predetermined set of grammars with a confidence level. For example the language module may assign a number of caller interaction points associated with the confidence level of matching the response of a caller to the predetermined set of grammars associated with the derogatory language.

In an exemplary embodiment the language module may match a response to a predetermined set of grammars associated with derogatory language with a confidence level of greater than 70 . The language module may assign a number of positive caller interaction points e.g. 2x 3 where x denotes a unit of frustration associated with the confidence level of greater than 70 . In another exemplary embodiment the language module may match a response to a predetermined set of grammars associated with derogatory language with a confidence level of 35 70 . The language module may assign a number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x 3 wherein x denotes a unit of frustration associated with the confidence level of 35 70 . In other exemplary embodiments the language module may match a response to a predetermined set of grammar associated with derogatory language with a confidence level of 15 34 . The language module may assign a number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x 6 wherein x denotes a unit of frustration associated with the confidence level of 15 34 .

In another exemplary embodiment the language module may assign difference number of caller interaction points with different derogatory language. For example the language module may assign a number of positive caller interaction points e.g. 2x 3 where x denotes a unit of frustration associated with derogatory language e.g. f word s word or other derogatory words . The language module may assign a number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x 3 where x denotes a unit of frustration associated with derogatory language e.g. damn bitch or other derogatory languages . The language may assign a number of positive caller interaction points e.g. x 6 where x denotes a unit of frustration associated with derogatory language e.g. stupid sucks or other derogatory languages . The language module may record and store a number of positive caller interaction points associated with a caller using derogatory language during a call session.

The historical data module may include one or more databases to store previous caller interactions with the automated voice portal system . For example the historical data module may include caller profiles storing previous caller interactions with the automated voice portal system . The caller profiles may store a comfort level of a caller interacting with the automated voice portal system . The comfort level of a caller interacting with the automated voice portal system may be determined based at least in part on information gather from the database module the misrecognition module the caller tone pitch module or the language module .

The historical data module may assign a caller interaction threshold associated with a caller. For example the historical data module may assign a caller interaction threshold to a previous caller based at least in part on the previous caller s comfort level with the automated voice portal system . In an exemplary embodiment the historical data module may assign a higher caller interaction threshold to a previous caller that may have a higher comfort level with the automated voice portal system . In another exemplary embodiment the historical data module may assign a lower caller interaction threshold to a previous caller that may have a lower comfort level with the automated voice portal system . The historical data module may assign a default caller interaction threshold associated with a new caller based at least in part on one or more previous callers comfort levels with the automated voice portal system . In an exemplary embodiment the default caller interaction threshold associated with a new caller may be determined by calculating an average of the caller interaction threshold associated with the previous callers comfort level with the automated voice portal system . In another exemplary embodiment the default caller interaction threshold associated with a new caller may be same as a previous caller with similar caller profile as the new caller.

The historical data module may update a caller interaction threshold based on one or more call sessions. For example the historical data module may lower a caller interaction threshold associated with a caller based on language e.g. derogatory language used during a call session with the automated voice portal system . In another exemplary embodiment the historical data module may raise a caller interaction threshold associated with a caller when the caller demonstrates patience. For example the historical data module may raise a caller interaction threshold when a caller provide multiple repeated responses after one or more misrecognition by the interactive modules

The historical data module may assign caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration associated with a caller. For example the historical data module may assign caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration to a previous caller based at least in part on the previous caller s comfort level with the automated voice portal system . In an exemplary embodiment the historical data module may assign a lower caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration to a previous caller that may have a higher comfort level with the automated voice portal system . In another exemplary embodiment the historical data module may assign a higher caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration to a previous caller that may have a lower comfort level with the automated voice portal system . The historical data module may assign a default or predetermined caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration associated with a new caller based at least in part on one or more previous callers comfort levels with the automated voice portal system . In an exemplary embodiment the default or predetermined caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration associated with a new caller may be determined by calculating an average of the caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration associated with the previous callers comfort level with the automated voice portal system . In another exemplary embodiment the default or predetermined caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration associated with a new caller may be same as a previous caller with similar caller profile as the new caller.

The historical data module may update caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration based on one or more call sessions. For example the historical data module may raise caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration associated with a caller based on language e.g. derogatory language used during a call session with the automated voice portal system . In another exemplary embodiment the historical data module may lower caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration associated with a caller when the caller demonstrates patience. For example the historical data module may lower caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration when a caller provides multiple repeated responses after one or more misrecognition by the interactive modules

The processing module may include one or more processors to control operations performed by the various modules of the caller interaction measurement system . The processing module may be in communication with the presentation module the input module the database module the misrecognition module the caller tone pitch module the language module and the historical data module . The processing module may further include a plurality of sub analytical modules to enable real time monitoring caller interactions with the automated voice portal system during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may receive one or more queries or requests from users via the presentation module . For example the processing module may receive a request or query to monitor caller interactions with the automated voice portal system during a call session.

The processing module may determine caller interactions with the automated voice portal system during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the historical data module to obtain a caller interaction threshold associated with a caller of a call session. In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the historical data module to obtain a default caller interaction threshold associated with a new caller of a call session. The processing module may access various modules to obtain a number of caller interaction points recorded and stored in each module. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the misrecognition module to obtain a number of caller interaction points associated with misrecognitions by the interactive modules during a call session. In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the caller tone pitch module to obtain a number of caller interaction points associated with changes in the volume of a caller during a call session. In other exemplary embodiments the processing module may access the language module to obtain a number of caller interaction points associated with language used by a caller during a call session. The processing module may continuously or intermittently access the various modules to obtain caller interaction points.

In another exemplary embodiment various modules may provide updates to the processing module . For example the misrecognition module may provide a number of caller interaction points associated with misrecognitions by the interactive modules during a call session to the processing module . In another exemplary embodiment the caller tone pitch module may provide a number of caller interaction points associated with changes in the volume of a caller during a call session to the processing module . In other exemplary embodiments the language module may provide a number of caller interaction points associated with language used by a caller during a call session to the processing module . The various modules may continuously or intermittently providing updated caller interaction points to the processing module .

The processing module may determine caller interactions based at least in part on information obtained from various modules. For example the processing module may sum the number of caller interaction points from various modules. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may add the number of caller interaction points obtained from the misrecognition module the number of caller interaction points obtained from the caller tone pitch module and the number of caller interaction points obtained from the language module . The processing module may compare the total number of caller interaction points from various modules e.g. the misrecognition module caller tone pitch module and or language module with the caller interaction threshold associated with a caller of a call session. In an exemplary embodiment when the total number of caller interaction points from various modules may be below the caller interaction threshold associated with a caller the processing module may continue to monitor the caller interaction with the automated voice portal system during a call session. In another exemplary embodiment when the total number of caller interaction points from various modules may exceed the caller interaction threshold the processing module may perform one or more actions. For example one or more actions performed by the processing module may include prompt the caller to a live agent providing an option for the caller to transfer to a live agent or directly transfer the caller to a live agent or other desired actions to relieve agitation or frustration of the caller during a call session.

The database module may store and manage data received during a call session. The database module may provide an interface e.g. a uniform interface for other modules within the caller interaction measurement system and may write read and search for messages stored in one or more repositories or databases. The database module may also perform other functions such as but not limited to concurrent access backup and archive functions. Due to limited amount of storing space the database module may compress store transfer or discard the data received during a call session stored within after a period of time e.g. a month. The database module may store the data received during a call session from the input module . The database module may also provide data received during a call session to the other modules of the caller interaction measurement system . In another exemplary embodiment the database module may store data received from other modules e.g. the presentation module the processing module the misrecognition module the caller tone pitch module and or the language module of the caller experience measurement system .

The database module may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to modules and . The database module may utilize a flash memory a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID tape disk a storage area network SAN an internee small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS or other computer accessible storage.

At block the caller interaction measurement system may receive information from a call session. For example a caller associated with one of a plurality of caller stations N may establish a call session with an automated voice portal system via a communication network . The caller interaction measurement system may receive information or data from a call session via the communication network . The caller interaction measurement system may preprocess the information or data received from a call session. For example the caller interaction measurement system may filter or format the information or data received from a call session. The caller interaction measurement system may store the processed information or data received from a call session. After receiving the information or data received from a call session the method may proceed to block .

At block the caller interaction measurement system may monitor caller interactions during the call session. For example the caller interaction measurement system may monitor caller interactions during the call session based at least in part on information received from the call session. In an exemplary embodiment the caller interaction measurement system may monitor a rate of misrecognition by the automated voice portal system . In another exemplary embodiment the caller interaction measurement system may monitor speech of a caller with the automated voice portal system . In other exemplary embodiments the caller interaction measurement system may monitor caller interactions with the automated voice portal system based at least in part on language used by a caller during the call session.

The caller interaction measurement system may record and store a number of positive caller interaction points for misrecognitions associated with each of the plurality of interactive modules of the automated voice portal system during a call session. The caller interaction measurement system may record and store a number of negative caller interaction point for good recognition associated with each of the plurality of interactive modules of the automated voice portal system during a call session. In another exemplary embodiment the caller interaction measurement system may record and store a number of caller interaction points for changes in the volume of the caller during a call session. In other exemplary embodiments the caller interaction measurement system may record and store a number of caller interaction points for derogatory languages used by a caller during a call session. After monitoring caller interaction during a call session the method may proceed to block .

At block the caller interaction measurement system may compare a total number of caller interaction points accumulated during a call session with a caller interaction threshold. In an exemplary embodiment the caller interaction measurement system may determine a caller interaction threshold based at least in part on previous call sessions with the automated voice portal system . In an exemplary embodiment the caller interaction measurement system may determined that the caller interaction threshold for a caller is 200 caller interaction points. Also the caller interaction measurement system may determine caller interactions points x for one unit of frustration during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the caller interaction measurement system may determine that one unit of frustration is 300 caller interaction points.

The caller interaction measurement system may determine total number of caller interaction points associated with a call session. In an exemplary embodiment during a call session a good recognition with a easy group of interactive modules e.g. x 6 may have negative 50 caller interaction points e.g. 300 6 . A misrecognition with a moderate group of interactive modules e.g. x 4 may have positive 75 caller interaction points e.g. 300 4 . A good recognition of a difficult group of interactive modules e.g. x 2 may have negative 150 caller interaction points e.g. 300 2 . A misrecognition of a difficult group of interactive modules e.g. x 6 may have a positive 50 caller interaction points e.g. 300 6 . The caller may raise the volume of the speech by 5 decibels e.g. x 2 may have a positive 150 caller interaction points. The caller interaction measurement system may determine that a caller used derogatory language with a confidence level of 90 e.g. 2x 3 having 200 caller interaction points. The caller interaction measurement system may determines that the total number of caller interaction points for the call session to be 275 caller interaction points. The caller interaction measurement system may compare a total number of caller interaction points e.g. 275 with the caller interaction threshold e.g. 200 . In the event that the total number of caller interaction points for the call session exceeds the caller interaction threshold the method may proceed to block . In the event that the total number of caller interaction points for the call session does not exceed the caller interaction threshold the method may proceed back to block .

At block the caller interaction measurement system may take one or more actions. For example the caller interaction measurement system may prompt the caller to a live agent providing an option for the caller to transfer to a live agent or directly transfer the caller to a live agent or other desired actions to relieve agitation or frustration of the caller during a call session. After taking one or more actions the method may proceed to block .

At block the caller interaction measurement system may assign caller interaction points x for one unit of frustration during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the historical data module of the caller interaction measurement system may assign x 300 caller interaction points for one unit of frustration. For example the historical data module may automatically assign caller interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points for one unit of frustration during a call session. For example the historical data module may assign default or predetermined caller interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points for one unit of frustration during a call session. In other exemplary embodiments the historical data module may assign call interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points for one unit of frustration to a previous caller based at least in part on the previous caller s comfort level with the automated voice portal system . In another exemplary embodiment the presentation module of the caller interaction measurement system may receive a request from users e.g. administrator associated with the caller interaction measurement system to assign caller interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points for one unit of frustration. For example the request may include caller interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points inputted by the user for one unit of frustration during a call session. After assigning caller interaction points for one unit of frustration the method may proceed to block .

At block the caller interaction measurement system may compute caller interaction points during the call session. For example the misrecognition module of the caller interaction measurement system may compute caller interaction points based at least in part on a number of misrecognitions by the automated voice portal system . For example the misrecognition module may identify which group e.g. easy group moderate group or difficult group the interactive modules may belong to. Also the misrecognition module may compute the caller interaction points for good recognitions and misrecognitions based on assigned caller interaction points e.g. x 6 x 4 x 2 for different groups of interactive modules . In an exemplary embodiment during a call session a good recognition with a easy group of interactive modules e.g. x 6 may have negative 50 caller interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points 6 50 caller interaction points . A misrecognition with a moderate group of interactive modules e.g. x 4 may have positive 75 caller interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points 4 75 caller interaction points . A good recognition of a difficult group of interactive modules e.g. x 2 may have negative 150 caller interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points 2 150 caller interaction points . A misrecognition of a difficult group of interactive modules e.g. x 6 may have a positive 50 caller interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points 6 50 caller interaction points .

In another exemplary embodiment the caller tone pitch module of the caller interaction measurement system may compute caller interaction points based at least in part on the changes with caller s tone pitch during a call session. For example the caller tone pitch module may determine a level e.g. first level second level or third level of change in the caller s tone pitch during a call session. Also the caller tone pitch module may compute the caller interaction points e.g. x 3 x 2 or x based at least in part on levels of change in the caller s tone or more pitch during a call session. In exemplary embodiment the caller may raise the volume of the speech by 5 decibels e.g. x 2 may have a positive 150 caller interaction points e.g. 300 caller interaction points 2 150 caller interaction points .

In other exemplary embodiments the language module of the caller interaction measurement system may compute caller interaction points base at least in part on language used by a caller during a call session. For example the language module may compute caller interaction points based at least in part on a confidence level the language module may match a response to a predetermined set of grammars associated with derogatory language. In another exemplary embodiment the language module may compute caller interaction points based at least in part on a type of derogatory language used by a caller during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the language module may determine that a caller used derogatory language with a confidence level of 90 e.g. 2x 3 having 200 caller interaction points e.g. 2x300 caller interaction points 3 200 caller interaction points . After computing caller interaction points during a call session the method may proceed to block .

At block the caller interaction measurement system may compute a total number of caller interaction points accumulated during a call session. In an exemplary embodiment the processor module of the caller interaction measurement system may compute a total number of caller interaction points based at least in part on good recognitions and misrecognitions by interactive modules changes in caller s tone pitch and language used by a caller during a call session. For example the processor module may periodically or continuously access the misrecognition module the caller tone pitch module and the language module to obtain caller interaction points computed by each module. Also the processor module may receive updates of caller interaction points computed by the misrecognition module the caller tone pitch module and the language module . The processing module may add the caller interaction points associated with good recognitions and misrecognitions by interactive modules e.g. 75 caller interaction points computed by the misrecognition module caller interaction points associated with levels of change in caller s tone pitch e.g. 150 caller interaction points computed by the caller tone pitch module and the caller interaction points associated with language used by a caller during a call session e.g. 200 caller interaction points computed by the language module . After computing the total caller interaction points during a call session the method may proceed to block .

The description above describes a voice portal system a communication network a plurality of caller stations a caller interaction measurement system having network elements storage devices various networks and other elements for coupling user via the communication network some of which are explicitly depicted others of which are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to executable software embodied on a non transitory medium firmware hardware or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device or may be included in both devices.

It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers computers etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

