---

title: Methods and systems for an improved in-trail procedures display
abstract: Systems and methods for improving situational awareness on an in-trail procedures display. The present invention provides a display with visual identification and indication for aircraft that do not meet the ITP criteria. In the in-trail procedures display, feedback is provided when a pilot selects an invalid ITP flight level, unambiguous feedback is provided to the pilot upon selection of a valid flight level, and valid inter-target aircraft located in intervening flight levels after selection of a valid flight level are positively identified and invalid target aircraft for selection are uniquely identified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08660713&OS=08660713&RS=08660713
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08660713
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101026
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 345 424 filed May 17 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under U.S. Government Contract No. DTFAWA 09 A 0001 with the FAA. The Government may have rights to portions of this invention.

Efficient oceanic operations normally require flight level changes. Climbs or descents provide optimal performance to take advantage of favorable winds or to avoid turbulence.

Automatic dependent surveillance broadcast ADS B in trail procedures ITP are airborne ADS B enabled climbs and descents through otherwise blocked flight levels. ITP is based on an approved International Civil Aviation Organization ICAO procedure whereby a controller separates aircraft based on information derived from cockpit sources that is relayed manually by the flight crew.

ITP allows a leading or following aircraft on the same track to climb or descend to a desired flight level through flight levels occupied by other aircraft. An ITP display enables a flight crew to determine if specific criteria for an ITP are met with respect to one or two reference aircraft at intervening flight levels. These criteria ensure that the spacing between the estimated positions of the ITP aircraft and reference aircraft always exceeds the ITP separation minimum of 10 NM while vertical separation does not exist during the climb or descent. Once the flight crew has established that the ITP criteria are met they request an ITP climb or descent identifying any reference aircraft in the clearance request. Air Traffic Control ATC must determine if standard separation will be met for all aircraft at the requested flight level and at all flight levels between the initial flight level and requested flight level. If so a standard non ITP flight level change clearance is likely to be granted. Otherwise if the reference aircraft are the only blocking aircraft the controller evaluates the ITP request. ATC determines if the reference aircraft have been cleared to change speed or change flight level or are about to reach a point at which a significant change of track will occur. The controller also ensures that the requesting aircraft is not referenced in another procedure. ATC also ensures that the positive Mach difference with the reference aircraft is no greater than 0.06 Mach. If each of these criteria is satisfied then ATC may issue the ITP flight level change clearance.

An example of an ITP climb is shown in . An ITP aircraft is behind a reference aircraft that is at a higher intervening flight level FL . Standard air traffic control ATC procedures apply to the other aircraft two aircraft at FL and one at FL .

The ITP system displays the information derived from received ADS B data on traffic displays such as a cockpit display of traffic information CDTI . Both plan view and vertical situational awareness displays VSAD are possible see . These displays require a large amount of pilot workload when preparing an ITP clearance request.

The present invention provides systems and methods for improving situational awareness on an in trail procedures display. The present invention provides a display with visual identification and indication for aircraft that do not meet the ITP criteria. In the in trail procedures display feedback is provided when a pilot selects an invalid ITP flight level unambiguous feedback is provided to the pilot upon selection of a valid flight level and valid inter target aircraft located in intervening flight levels after selection of a valid flight level are positively identified and invalid target aircraft for selection are uniquely identified.

In one aspect of the invention automatic selection of valid target aircraft and automatic generation of a clearance request text based on manually or automatically selected valid target aircraft and a desired flight level are available.

In another embodiment a transponder is connected to the TCAS and the ADS B device is integrated within the TCAS unit.

The processor receives target information of other aircraft in the vicinity of the aircraft via the ADS B system and if included the TCAS . In another embodiment a TCAS unit includes the ADS B functionality and this processor is included in the TCAS unit. The processor presents the received target information on the display device . Pilots interact with the display device using a user interface such as a cursor control device or a touch screen display for analyzing and sending an ITP change of altitude request to a controller authority via the communications system . This will be shown in more detail below and in the following figures.

The ITP guidance section presents the pilot with all the steps necessary for executing an ITP request. This will be described in more detail below. The traffic status section provides various information about traffic targets that are selected by the pilot or automatically selected by the processor in the main display section . This will be shown in more detail by example in the following figures. The ITP advisory message section provides pilots information relating to selections they made within the main display section if the action that the pilot is performing is unavailable or invalid. The sections may be distributed on the display in a different manner.

The processor generates icons to be displayed in the plan view display relative to the host aircraft icon based on TCAS or ADS B information received from an associated target aircraft. In an alternative embodiment traffic targets from other data sources such as TIS B Traffic Information Services Broadcast could also be processed and displayed. Target aircraft that are outside of the defaulted or user selected altitude and lateral filter settings are not displayed as icons in the main section of the plan view or the ITP view. The altitude filters for plan view and ITP view may be independent in some embodiments i.e. user selects different altitude filter values for the two views . A first target icon is associated with a TCAS target aircraft and a second target icon is associated with an ADS B target aircraft. Each of these target icons include a relative altitude value that is a value of altitude relative to the host aircraft. The ADS B icons also present flight ID information if that display feature is selected. Also displayed within the main section is an altitude view mode enunciator values associated with an altitude filter and lateral filter lines with an associated lateral filter distance value. The altitude view mode enunciator provides visual feedback to the user of the active altitude filter selection. It also indicates whether the user selected relative or absolute altitude. The lateral filter lines indicate the extent of lateral filter selected. Only traffic between these lines is shown in the ITP view i.e. the traffic is not filtered from the plan view .

A status section provides various information about target icons that are selected e.g. user s finger touching target icon on touch screen within the main section . In one embodiment the status information includes but is not limited to flight ID altitude range ITP distance and ground speed differential. An ITP advisory message section presents information when a user action is unavailable or invalid.

Transition to the ITP view can occur by either selecting the ITP view text located in a view mode section of the main section or by activation of a Formulate ITP clearance CLNC button located in an ITP procedural guidance section . Selection of either one of those transitions the display to ITP view shown in . In the ITP view the main section presents a vertical profile view showing flight levels on a vertical axis. Each flight level includes a corresponding line. ITP distance is presented on a horizontal axis with a host aircraft icon located on a center flight level and at zero on the ITP distance scale. This vertical profile display or ITP view shows all target aircraft that are above or below the host aircraft. In this example the target aircraft icons are associated with aircraft that fall within the altitude band. In this example the altitude band is shown in the upper right corner of the main section . The altitude filter is plus and minus 4000 feet. If a lateral filter selection was made then a read out that indicates the current lateral filter would be displayed. In this example a lateral filter of 20 NM is displayed in the bottom right corner of the main section .

If a target aircraft an aircraft symbol is produced from ADS B information the associated icons with the aircraft symbol include traffic tag data see . The traffic tag data includes flight ID ITP distance and or speed differential relative to the host aircraft . ITP distance information may be optionally or additionally shown by an ITP distance scale located at the bottom of the main section . A groundspeed differential arrow is included with the traffic tag data. The groundspeed differential arrow provides information on whether other traffic is converging or separating from ownship. When the groundspeed differential arrow points to the right it indicates that the traffic is faster than ownship and the converse is true. A solid groundspeed differential arrow indicates that the traffic is converging on ownship whereas a hollow groundspeed differential arrow indicates that the traffic is separating from ownship. A dotted box surrounds or some other indicator distinguishes an aircraft icon when the user selects that icon. Selection of the aircraft icon presents status information for that target aircraft in the traffic status section see the dotted box around the icon AF in . Selection can be performed by touching or tapping the desired icon with a finger or pointing device. In one embodiment the current flight level of the host aircraft is uniquely identified from all the other flight level lines. In this embodiment the current flight level for the host aircraft is indicated in magenta. It can be appreciated that other colors or graphical representations may be used.

Target aircraft icon that do not satisfy ITP minimum criteria are highlighted in a distinct color e.g. blue. In an alternative embodiment only the failing ITP criteria of the traffic tag data are highlighted in a distinct color i.e. not the aircraft symbol .

As shown in the user has selected icon QH which was visually identified to not satisfy ITP minimum criteria. The advisory message section indicates why the aircraft associated with icon QH does not meet the ITP minimum criteria. Icon QH does not meet the ITP criteria because the ITP distance is less than 15 nautical miles.

The ITP procedural guidance section provides the user with a four step process to formulate a correct ITP clearance that needs to be sent to ATC. illustrates a display after the user has selected the Formulate ITP CLNC button while in the ITP view mode and after the user has selected flight level FL for attaining an ITP clearance. Because the user selected a flight level that is only a 1000 feet above the current flight level of the host aircraft the line associated with flight level and a caret located at a left end of the line associated with the selected flight level are presented in grey. An advisory message is presented in the advisory message section because the processor determined that because the selected flight level is only 1000 feet above the flight level of the host aircraft an ITP clearance request is not needed. In this situation all that is required is a standard clearance. In the ITP guidance section a selected desired flight level FL box is displayed above a Cancel button a Prev ious view button and a Next view button . Selection of the Prev ious view and Next view buttons are comparable to forward and back browser window transition buttons. The Cancel button allows the user to cancel a current ITP request formulation. Because the selected FL is not valid or does not require an ITP request the selected flight level value is not inserted into the desired FL box . In an alternative embodiment the incorrect selected flight level value is entered in grey i.e. a color different than if the selected flight level value was valid in the desired FL box .

As shown in the user has selected FL as the desired flight level for an ITP climb. The processor determines that the selected FL is valid and then unambiguously indicates the validity of FL . In this example a caret is presented on the left side of a line associated with FL and both the line and the caret are presented in green. Because the selected FL is valid it is automatically entered into the selected desired FL box . The user then selects the Next view button for continuing the ITP request process.

After manual or automatic selection of reference aircraft and activation of the Next view button the process continues on to the third step of the ITP request process as shown in . The processor generates and displays ITP clearance request text based on the selected valid reference aircraft and the selected valid flight level. The ITP clearance request text is displayed within the ITP guidance section . The format of the clearance request text is consistent with recent International Civil Aviation Organization ICAO standards. The ITP clearance request text includes an altitude value in this example FL and free text which is formatted accordingly. Then the pilot either manually enters the clearance text into a data link interface e.g. communications system or the processor uploads the clearance request text automatically and transmits it to the ATC via the communications system . A Controller Pilot Data Link Communications CPDLC application is included for sending requests to and receive clearances from ATC. The CPDLC is typically hosted in a Multi Function Display MFD or a Flight Management System FMS Control Display Unit CDU . Manual ITP flight level change requests are made via data link in a manner similar to a standard flight level change request but with additional ITP specific information entered in the free text fields. This information may be entered on more than one free text line if necessary. If an automatic transmission of the ITP clearance request is implemented within the ITP guidance section instead of FMS CDU or MFD implementation a SEND control is implemented in step of the ITP process. The control is preferably positioned adjacent to the free text data. The altitude request e.g. Climb to FL is appended to the ITP free text clearance data. The ITP free text data in any implementation would be formatted according to ICAO standards. After transmission of the ITP clearance request the processor presents pilot responsibilities while awaiting ATC clearance and what is to be performed once clearance is received. This information is presented in the ITP guidance section see .

In an alternative embodiment step of the ITP procedure guidance is only displayed to the user once the ITP climb descent has started. It provides guidance on the necessary pilot actions e.g. climb at 300 fpm or more maintain constant cruise Mach number . In addition visual and aural annunciations are provided if any necessary ITP conditions are breached during the ITP maneuver e.g. less than 10 NM ITP distance . In one embodiment the ITP reference aircraft transition from green to blue color and an ITP advisory message such as ITP Distance

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

