---

title: Systems and methods for providing one or more pages from an electronic document
abstract: Systems and methods for providing one or more pages of an electronic document are provided herein. Some of the methods may include evaluating one or more pages obtained from an electronic document to determine at least one of a pagination and an order for each of the one or more pages, reducing the size of each of the one or more pages, while utilizing at least a portion of the pagination of the each of the one or more pages, associating the one or more pages together according to the determined order, and providing at least one of the one or more pages to a network-enabled computing system upon receiving a request to obtain at least one page of the electronic document from the network-enabled computing system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924251&OS=08924251&RS=08924251
owner: VLSI Research Inc.
number: 08924251
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101213
---
The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for providing one or more pages of an electronic document and more specifically but not by way of limitation to systems and methods adapted to provide one or more pages from an electronic document along with methods for dynamically adjusting each page for optimal viewing and extracting the full text of the one or more pages and determine keywords that are utilized as the basis for providing targeted advertisements.

According to some embodiments the present invention may be directed to methods for providing one or more pages of an electronic document that include a evaluating one or more pages obtained from an electronic document to determine at least one of a pagination and an order for each of the one or more pages b reducing the size of each of the one or more pages while utilizing at least a portion of the pagination of the each of the one or more pages c associating the one or more pages together according to the determined order and d providing at least one of the one or more pages to a network enabled computing system upon receiving a request to obtain at least one page of the electronic document from the network enabled computing system.

According to other embodiments the present invention may be directed to systems for providing one or more pages of an electronic document including a a memory for storing a document processing application and b a processor for executing the document processing application. The document processing application may include i an analysis module adapted to evaluate the one or more pages obtained from an electronic document to determine at least one of a pagination and an order for each of the one or more pages and ii a pagination module adapted to 1 reduce the size of each of the one or more pages while utilizing at least a portion of the pagination of the each of the one or more pages and 2 associate the one or more pages together according to the determined order and iii an interface module adapted to provide at least one view of the one or more pages to a network enabled computing system.

According to additional embodiments the present invention may be directed to a non transitory computer readable storage medium having a document processing application embodied thereon the document processing application executable by a processor of a computing system to perform a method for providing one or more pages of an electronic document that includes the steps of a evaluating one or more pages obtained from an electronic document to determine at least one of a pagination and an order for each of the one or more pages b reducing the size of each of the one or more pages while utilizing at least a portion of the pagination of the each of the one or more pages c associating the one or more pages together according to the determined order and d providing at least one of the one or more pages to a network enabled computing system upon receiving a request to obtain at least one page of the electronic document from the network enabled computing system.

According to some embodiments the present invention may be directed to electronic document reader devices adapted to provide one or more pages of an electronic document. Some electronic document reader devices may include a a memory for storing a document processing application and b a processor for executing the document processing application. The document processing application may include i an interface module adapted to receive requests to obtain one or more pages of an electronic document ii a communications module adapted to locate and obtain the requested electronic document from a server iii an analysis module adapted to evaluate one or more pages obtained from the electronic document to determine at least one of a pagination and an order for each of the one or more pages and iv a pagination module adapted to 1 reduce the size of each of the one or more pages while utilizing at least a portion of the pagination of the each of the one or more pages and 2 associate the one or more pages according to the determined order and v wherein the interface module is further adapted to generate a view of at least one page c a transceiver for outputting requests to obtain one or more pages of an electronic document and receive at least one view of at least one page from the interface module and d a display adapted to output the view generated by the interface module of the document processing application.

Systems and methods disclosed herein and constructed in accordance with the present technology may provide uniform views of pages of electronic documents over a variety of screen sizes including but not limited to large desktop monitors laptop screens televisions tablet screens and mobile device screens. Exemplary methods of the present invention may provide one or more pages of electronic documents seamlessly and efficiently so that users experience no delay that is substantially longer in duration than what they would experience turning the page of a physical book or magazine. Moreover the systems and methods disclosed herein may benefit several unique types of users and or experiences.

For website applications uploads of electronic documents are simplified because the systems and methods may be adapted to cooperate with the most common file formats without the user needing to convert the electronic document to an intermediate format like a portable document file P.D.F. . Common types of file formats include but are not limited to. .doc .ppt .pps .txt and .xls in addition to .pdf. According to some embodiments the systems and methods may be adapted to separate fragment or otherwise divide an electronic document into one or more pages. The one or more pages may be reduced in size by saving them as separate image files e.g. JPEG TIFF PNG etc. . This type of conversion reduces the size of the individual pages so they may be more quickly downloaded a function which is especially important for mobile environments as most mobile devices are limited by wireless bandwidth restrictions. The systems and methods provided herein may also recognize the original pagination of individual pages as well as page orientation e.g. either landscape or portrait and rotation and correctly orient each displayed page for the reader thereby creating a seamless viewing experience.

Systems and methods disclosed herein may ensure that readers viewing an electronic document via a webpage wireless device or electronic reader device are not required to wait for large portions of an electronic document to download before the electronic document may be viewed. In fact some file formats do not permit viewing of the document until the entire file has been downloaded.

Because the present technology may separate or fracture an electronic document into pages each page may be displayed substantially instantaneously with little noticeable wait time for the reader. Moreover while the reader is viewing a page the system may be downloading and or processing the following pages of the electronic document transparent to the reader so that the next page requested is available quickly for viewing. In some applications e.g. mobile applications only immediately requested pages may be provided so that the reader may selectively opt out of downloading an entire electronic document. This functionality allows the reader to forego paying extra data charges for downloading the entirety of the electronic document most of which the reader may not desire to obtain.

Views of the pages may be resized to substantially fit the display of the reader without wasting display screen area whether a given page has a landscape or portrait orientation. This gives the user a reading experience that is more like a paper magazine book or other physical media rather than a conventional web page. The systems disclosed herein may also provide the user with magnifying glass functionalities so that users may quickly zoom into sections of pages to see details.

With regard to advertising and or marketing the benefit of the configurations of the systems and methods may include the ability for full page or individual advertisements to be inserted directly between the pages obtained from the electronic document. Unlike banners pop ups or timed page landing advertisements which reader may find annoying or easy to ignore the systems and methods of the present technology make the experience of viewing these full page advertisements similar to that of reading advertisements in a magazine. As the reader turns pages full page advertisements appear as they would if readers were turning the pages of a magazine. The reader gets the full impression or impact of such advertisements as they turn through the pages of a given electronic document.

Because pages obtained from electronic documents may be provided in a universally accepted and mature format such as JPEGs which may be downloaded as pages the size of the single pages may avoid bandwidth restrictions imposed by hardware manufacturers or wireless service providers. For example it is common practice for hardware manufacturers to control the size of electronic documents e.g. Flash S.W.F. documents or PDF documents downloadable by certain wireless devices to conserve bandwidth.

With regard to search engine optimization S.E.O. systems and methods character recognition technologies may be utilized in combination with the image conversion of electronic documents into pages. Unlike simple image conversions once the text fonts and sizes are converted they may be evaluated and ranked or weighted for relevance to the page. It will be understood that larger fonts are typically utilized for titles and medium sized fonts are typically utilized in conjunction with subtitles or other important information such as text within the body of a main paragraph. Both sizes of fonts may contain keywords that may be automatically obtained from indefinite articles e.g. the and or a and numbers. The keywords may then be automatically saved as metadata within the page of the electronic document from which they were extracted in a process that may be transparent to the user. Meanwhile small fonts that typically contain only reference information that pertain to the entire electronic document may also be excluded from the metadata. These functionalities aid in preventing search engines from ignoring the pages because of textual repetition. These types of font based character recognition optimizations may also ensure that advertisers may provide targeted advertisements to a higher yield of target audiences.

Systems and methods may include standalone reader applications that reside on end user computing systems. The standalone reader applications communicate with an application server that processes electronic documents and provides pages of the electronic document to the reader application in a format that is perceivable by a reader. Other systems and methods include web based reader applications that cooperate with web browser applications resident on end user computing systems. The web based reader applications may function similarly to the standalone reader applications in that the web based reader applications communicate with an application server that processes electronic documents and provides pages of the electronic document to the reader application in a format that is perceivable by a reader.

The application server may be described as a computing system adapted for the particular purpose of providing one or more pages from electronic documents by receiving requests to obtain one or more pages from an electronic document from one or more computing systems quickly while conserving the amount of data transferred. It will be understood that the application server may include a plurality of application servers operatively connected via a load balancing device or application not shown resident on one or more of the application servers adapted to distribute requests received from computing systems to the plurality of application servers . The application server may be adapted to obtain one or more pages of an electronic document into pages although in some embodiments the electronic documents may be received in an already divided configuration. It will be understood that the term obtained may include extracting separating fracturing splitting or otherwise dividing the electronic document into one or more pages. The application server may then evaluate the obtained pages to determine a pagination for each of the obtained pages and an order for the pages that corresponds to the order of the electronic document. Also the application server may reduce the size of each of the pages while utilizing at least a portion of the pagination of the each of the pages and associate the pages together according to the determined order. Additionally the application server may be adapted to provide at least one of the one or more of the pages to the computing system from which the request was received.

According to some embodiments the application server may be adapted to extract keywords from the pages via character recognition technology and provide targeted advertisements along with or overlaid upon one or more of the pages provided to a computing system .

In other embodiments the application server may utilize font based character recognition techniques and data filtering functions to enhance the ability of search engines to categorize the data included in the one or more pages of the electronic documents or improve the quality of targeted advertisements provided to the reader.

Referring now to application server may include a document processing application hereinafter referred to as application . According to some embodiments the application may include one or more modules or engines that are adapted to effectuate respective functionalities attributed thereto. It will be understood that the processor of the application server may execute one or more of the constituent modules described herein.

According to some embodiments the application may include an interface module an analysis module a pagination module a communications module and a database and or file system .

Generally speaking the interface module may be configured to receive requests to obtain one or more pages of an electronic document via the network from a computing system such as an exemplary reader computing system. In some instances requests may be manually input by a user via an interface generated by the interface module .

According to other embodiments requests received from a web browser application may interface with application via an application programming interface not shown . Generally speaking an application programming interface allows applications residing on different platforms or written in different coding languages to interoperate. As such the particularities of the application programming interface utilized herein are dependent in part upon the particular language or languages with which the application and the web browser application are coded. For the sake of brevity as the application and the web browser application are not limited to any particular coding language a detailed discussion of the use of application programming interfaces will not be provided as the creation and use of application programming interfaces would be well known to one of ordinary skill in the art with the present disclosure before them.

In various embodiments the analysis module may communicate with the interface module . For example the interface module may communicate a received request to the analysis module . In some embodiments a request may be transmitted from the computing system through the network to the interface module of the application server for delivery to the analysis module . According to some embodiments requests may include information indicative of a location of the electronic document along with information indicative of the number of pages the reader would like to obtain.

For example the request may include information indicative of a location at which an electronic document is located such as an Internet protocol address indicative of a domain sub domain virtual sub domain a domain subdirectory or the like along with a name of the electronic document that includes the file extension such as .txt .pdf .doc .docx .ppt .xls .rtf .pst and the like. Moreover the request may include information indicative of the one or more pages of the electronic document that the reader would like to obtain.

Users may interact with the application server via a website or application e.g. standalone reader application resident on the computing system of the reader that provides readers with access to electronic documents residing in an online repository e.g. the database operatively coupled to the application server . Readers may request specific pages from electronic documents residing on the one or more servers by inputting information into a user interface generated by the interface module . The interface module may cause the analysis module to locate electronic documents corresponding to the request. Users may also interact with the application via the website to control the number or size of pages downloaded. The communications module may interact with the reader platform to modulate downloads to avoid data charges.

According to other embodiments rather than locating electronic documents in response to a request readers may directly upload electronic documents to the application server that may be processed by the application see .

Next the analysis module may be adapted to determine the file format of the requested electronic document and open the same. The analysis module may then evaluate the electronic document to determine break points or metadata that correspond to at least one of the beginning point or end point of each of the pages of the electronic document. For example the analysis module may be adapted to locate document data indicative of header or footer information or other reference data such as page numbers. The analysis module may also be adapted to obtain one or more pages from the electronic document based upon the break points determined previously.

According to some embodiments the analysis module may be adapted to determine an order for the electronic document that may be utilized to associate the one or more obtained pages together as will be discussed in greater detail below. The analysis module may also be adapted to determine a pagination for each of the pages of the electronic document. It will be understood that the term pagination may include both general and specific document layout details such as page orientation including landscape or portrait along with page dimensions or object orientation information e.g. rotation and may also include details such as color font spacing and the like.

The analysis module may also be adapted to utilize character recognition technology to evaluate the textual information contained within each of the one or more pages to determine keywords. The character recognition technology may be adapted to exclude certain types of information such as indefinite articles numbering or other reference characters indicative of formatting data associated with the electronic document. Additionally the character recognition technology utilized by the analysis module may be adapted to determine the characteristics of the fonts present within each of the one or more pages of the electronic document and weigh the importance of individual keywords based upon the characteristic of the fonts utilized in conjunction with the particular keyword. For example larger more prominent fonts e.g. headings titles subtitles etc. associated with particular keywords may receive higher rankings relative to keywords associated with smaller or less prominent fonts e.g. body text .

In addition to processing keywords the analysis module may also be adapted to determine categories or sub categories of products and or services corresponding to the extracted keywords. The categories or sub categories may be utilized by the pagination module to generate targeted advertisements that may be provided to the reader as will be discussed in greater detail below. In other embodiments the categories or sub categories may be defined by for example a system administrator or other individual or entity tasked with maintaining the categories and sub categories utilized by the application . According to some embodiments the categories or sub categories may be user defined ensuring that the information contained therein is highly relevant to the reader. It will be understood that readers may maintain their own categories and sub categories by utilizing user interfaces generated by the interface module adapted to receive electronic documents uploaded by the reader see .

Moreover electronic document that have been processed by the application described above may be stored in the online database such that they are available for searching by a search engine. Because the electronic documents have been processed with font based character recognition technology and include highly relevant metadata e.g. keywords search engines may locate electronic documents in a more efficient manner.

The pagination module may be adapted to reduce the size of the one or more pages of the electronic document by converting them into individual image files. It will be understood that the pagination module may be adapted to utilize any one of a number of standardized image file formats that would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art with the present disclosure before them such as JPEG TIFF and GIF just to name a few. The reduction in file size for each of the pages facilitates the transfer and use thereof on bandwidth sensitive wireless systems.

According to some embodiments the pagination module may also be adapted to associate the one or more pages together utilizing at least one of the unique page identification information associated with each of the one or more pages by the analysis module and the order of the electronic document determined by the analysis module . It will be understood that the pagination module may associate the one or more pages according to any known method that allows the application to communicate the pages in an ordered fashion. For example the pagination module may be adapted to associate each of the pages together according to at least one of unique page identification information and electronic document order in such a way that if a reader requests an individual page of an electronic document the application may provide a previous or subsequent page in its correct order relative to the original electronic document. It will be understood that the term associating may include any of electronically linking connecting relating referencing indexing coupling or otherwise interrelating the one or more pages in an orderly e.g. sequential fashion.

According to some embodiments the pagination module may be adapted to generate targeted advertisements based upon the keywords determined by the analysis module . It will be understood that in some embodiments the pagination module may not generate the targeted advertisements but may utilize targeted advertisements generated and provided to the application . The targeted advertisements may be generated to have an appearance that at least partially corresponds to the pagination of the one or more pages such that the advertisement may be seamlessly disposed between two pages to simulate a full page advertisement in a magazine or newspaper. According to other embodiments the pagination module may be adapted to overlay one or more targeted advertisements onto a portion of a page. In some embodiments the pagination module may also be adapted to apply a watermark not shown to one or more of the pages. The watermark may include an advertisement or information indicative of the application such as a trade name.

The pagination module may be adapted to generate targeted advertisements based upon the categories or sub categories determined by the analysis module . For example if the analysis module locates keywords such as Babe Ruth and Baseball the analysis module may determine appropriate categories such as Major League Baseball or Sporting Events corresponding to the keywords along with sub categories such as Baseball Memorabilia or Major League Baseball Ticketing. The pagination module may then generate an even more broad variety of advertisements corresponding to these categories and sub categories while ensuring that the advertisements remain targeted and appropriate relative to the reader.

After the one or more pages of the electronic document have been processed the interface module may be adapted to receive information indicative of the requested pages from the pagination module and generate at least one view of the one or more pages in a format that is perceivable by a reader. For example the views may be communicated to and interpreted by the web browser application resident on the computing system from which the request was received see exemplary views .

In accordance with the present disclosure the interface module may be adapted to dynamically adjust at least one view of the one or more pages based upon a size of a display associated with the computing system . For example with regards to displaying pages of electronic documents on wireless devices the application may further subdivide the pages of a document into smaller sections and magnify the text such that the reader is not required to repeatedly manipulate the one or more pages to view details of the pages.

The application may allow readers to adjust the pagination of the one or more pages of the electronic document by providing user defined pagination modifications. For example the reader may request that all pages be displayed in landscape orientation despite the original pagination of the page.

It will be understood that users may also interact with the application via a website to control the number and or size of pages of an electronic document that are downloaded. The communications module may interact with the computing system of the reader to modulate view of the pages provided to avoid excessive bandwidth usage and resulting data charges.

According to some embodiments the application may be adapted to modulate the number of pages provided to the computing system e.g. download to limit data transferred to the computing system . More specifically the analysis module may be adapted to determine for example the configuration of the computing system from which the request was received and or the size of the bandwidth utilized to transmit the request to determine an appropriate number of pages which are to be provided to the computing system . By way of a non limiting example if the reader utilizes a mobile device to request five individual pages from a complex electronic document the application may restrict the number of pages provided to the mobile device to potentially one or two pages at a time. The application may be adapted to provide the additional requested pages upon subsequent requests received from the reader.

More specifically the application may be adapted to recognize the magnitude of the bandwidth e.g. bit rate or throughput of the communications channel such as network established between the computing system and the application server . In additional embodiments the application may be adapted to recognize the type of computing system from which the request was received. For example the application may be adapted to further reduce the size of the at least one page provided to the computing system if the application determines that the computing system is a mobile device such as a cellular telephone.

By way of non limiting example the application may be adapted to reduce the overall size of one or more pages of the electronic document by a given factor. Thus if a four megabyte power point file is requested that includes 40 pages the application may be adapted to reduce the size of the converted power point file although this reduction in size may depend on the type of the electronic document and the content included therein. Therefore if a reader decides to look at the entire electronic document the entire size of the transfer is approximately 400 kilobytes.

It is noteworthy that because the application may be adapted to provide only one page of the electronic document at a time the reader is only paying to download a page at a time rather than for the entirety of the electronic document that they may not want.

Next in step the system locates the electronic document corresponding to the identifying information received and opens the electronic document in accordance with the particular file format of the electronic document.

Additionally in step an order is determined for the electronic document such that when the one or more pages are obtained from the electronic document they may be associated with one another in such a way that the original page order of the electronic document may be preserved. Moreover a pagination for each of the pages of the electronic document may be determined.

In step one or more pages of the electronic document may be obtained by locating break point information or metadata within the electronic document indicative of the beginning or ending points of pages of the electronic document. This step may also include providing each of the one or more pages with unique identifying information such that the pages may be associated with one another in the proper order as determined in step . It will be understood that associating may include electronically linking connecting relating referencing indexing coupling or otherwise interrelating the one or more pages. It will further be understood that in some applications the electronic documents may be received in a page obtained format.

In an optional step character recognition technology may be utilized to evaluate the data contained within the one or more pages of the electronic document. It will be understood that keywords may be obtained from the evaluated data by excluding data indicative of indefinite articles numbers or repetitive referencing data. It will be understood that the character recognition technology utilized may be adapted to further separate keywords from the extracted textual content based upon font characteristics attributed to particular words in the electronic document as was described in greater detail above.

In step the one or more pages may be reduced in size by converting the pages into an image file format. It will be understood that one or more of the obtained keywords may be associated with the one or more pages from which they were extracted. For example the keywords may be included as transparent metadata or may be overlaid upon the pages in accordance with the pagination of the page.

The method may also include the step of storing the processed pages of the electronic document in a database that resides on one or more servers. It will be understood that the processed pages of the electronic document may be made available for searching such that the one or more pages may be accessed again in the future without the need to reprocess the electronic document see .

According to some embodiments the method may include the additional step of generating one or more targeted advertisements that are provided along with the one or more pages. The keywords determined in step may be utilized as the basis for creating targeted advertisements that may be provided along with the one or more pages. For example targeted advertisements may include individual page advertisements that are disposed between two or more pages of an electronic document provided to the reader. According to other examples targeted advertisements may be applied to the pages directly to simulate advertisements provided to targeted audiences in a physical format such as magazines or newspapers.

In an additional step one or more random advertisements may be generated and provided along with the one or more pages. In distinction to targeted advertisements it will be understood that the term random may include any type of advertisement that may or may not be predicated upon keywords obtained from requested electronic documents. These random advertisements may include any type of information provided from entities such as merchants. These random advertisements may be provided in any format such as text audio video or combinations thereof.

In step the at least one page may be provided to the computing system from which the request was received. For example a user interface may be generated that includes a view of the at least one page which may be displayed by a web browser application resident on the computing system.

Next rather than locating and processing an unprocessed electronic document corresponding to the request the method locates a previously processed electronic document residing on a online server in step . Similarly to the method the method may also include steps and of generating and providing both random and targeted advertisements respectively. Lastly the method may include a step of providing at least one page to the computing system from which the request was received.

The frame may also include a magnification tool object that when executed displays a magnified area of a given size. Also the frame may include a zooming functionality object which will be described in greater detail along with the magnification tool object below. In some embodiments the frame may also include a save object which may allow users to save the page in any one of a number of formats.

The zooming functionality object of the application may operate similarly to the magnification tool object with the exception that rather than magnifying a selected area of the individual page the zooming functionality object is adapted to increase or decrease the size of the entire individual page.

The exemplary user interface may include a plurality of objects such as the one described in greater detail with regards to exemplary user interfaces and with respect to respectively.

Additional functional objects may include icons adapted to provide direct access to social networking websites. Readers may reference to share upload or otherwise post pages currently being viewed by clicking the appropriate icon .

The web page may also include a plurality of other input objects adapted to receive metadata indicative of the electronic document such as author title headline summary or any combinations thereof.

Although not shown an additional non limiting example of a document processing application may include a standalone device such as an electronic document reader device that may be adapted to provide one or more one or more pages of an electronic document. According to some embodiments the device may include a housing that at least partially houses at least one of a display a memory for storing a document processing application a processor for executing the document processing application and a transceiver for sending and receiving information. In some embodiments the document processing application may include an interface module adapted to receive requests to obtain one or more pages of an electronic document and provide views of the individual pages of the electronic document and a communications module adapted to locate and obtain the requested electronic document from a server.

The document processing application may also include an analysis module adapted to evaluate one or more pages obtained from the electronic document to determine at least one of a pagination for each of the one or more pages and an order for the one or more pages. Additionally the application may include a pagination module adapted to reduce the size of each of the one or more pages while utilizing at least a portion of the original pagination of the each of the one or more pages and associate the one or more pages according to the determined order. The application may also include an interface module adapted to generate views of one or more of the requested pages.

In accordance with the present invention the display of the electronic reader may include a touch screen adapted to receive touch gestures from the reader that may be associated with functions that control the application. It will be understood that touch gestures may include gliding pinching sliding swiping and taping just to name a few.

In alternative operational implementation the application previously disclosed herein may include a standalone reader application executable locally on the end user s computing system. Readers may direct requests through a web browser to locate one or more electronic documents that correspond to particular keywords. It will be understood that the reader may search the Internet via a search engine accessible from the web browser. The search engine may return a list of links some of which correspond to electronic documents residing on servers located remotely from the computing system utilized by the reader. Clicking a link corresponding to the electronic document may cause the application execute and process the electronic document to provide the user with views of one or more pages of the electronic document that include one or more of the keywords included in the request.

The components shown in are depicted as being connected via a single bus . The components may be connected through one or more data transport means. Processor and main memory may be connected via a local microprocessor bus and the mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage device and display system may be connected via one or more input output I O buses.

Mass storage device which may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive is a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by processor . Mass storage device may store the system software for implementing embodiments of the present invention for purposes of loading that software into main memory .

Portable storage device operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk digital video disc or USB storage device to input and output data and code to and from the computer system of . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present invention may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the computer system via the portable storage device .

Input devices provide a portion of a user interface. Input devices may include an alphanumeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alpha numeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. Additionally the system as shown in includes output devices . Suitable output devices include speakers printers network interfaces and monitors.

Display system may include a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. Display system receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the display device.

Peripheral devices may include any type of computer support device to add additional functionality to the computer system. Peripheral device s may include a modem or a router.

The components provided in the computer system of are those typically found in computer systems that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention and are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art. Thus the computer system of may be a personal computer hand held computing system telephone mobile computing system workstation server minicomputer mainframe computer or any other computing system. The computer may also include different bus configurations networked platforms multi processor platforms etc. Various operating systems may be used including Unix Linux Windows Macintosh OS Palm OS Android iPhone OS and other suitable operating systems.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the technology. Computer readable storage media refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a central processing unit CPU a processor a microcontroller or the like. Such media may take forms including but not limited to non volatile and volatile media such as optical or magnetic disks and dynamic memory respectively. Common forms of computer readable storage media include a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic storage medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical storage medium RAM PROM EPROM a FLASHEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. The descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the technology to the particular forms set forth herein. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments. It should be understood that the above description is illustrative and not restrictive. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the technology as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. The scope of the technology should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

