---

title: Acquisition of items offered for purchase online through a mobile computing appratus
abstract: In an example embodiment, a method is provided. The method may comprise receiving an item identifier from a mobile computing apparatus, such as a mobile telephone or global positioning system (GPS) device. Data associated with the item identifier is accessed and transmitted to a initiate a purchase of the item. In some embodiments, a voice portal may be used to facilitate the purchase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08463656&OS=08463656&RS=08463656
owner: eBay, Inc.
number: 08463656
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100503
---
This application is a continuation of and priority is claimed to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 870 542 entitled ACQUISITION OF ONLINE AUCTION ITEMS THROUGH A GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM filed Oct. 11 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 729 953 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to computer software. In an example embodiment the disclosure relates to the acquisition of items offered for purchase through a mobile computing apparatus.

An online auction is a publicly held sale over a computer network at which users may bid on or purchase auction items. A user may search for auction items and in response to the search a list of auction items from the search may be displayed. Each auction item may be located in different locations. In order for a user to determine the locations of the auction items the user must laboriously read through all descriptions associated with the auction items. The list of descriptions makes the identification of auction item locations extremely difficult especially when the user does not have much time to read through the descriptions such as when the user is on the road.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of an example embodiment of the present disclosure. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details.

Methods global positioning system GPS apparatuses systems and graphical user interfaces are provided for acquiring auction items. In brief a GPS apparatus may display a map with locations of auction items. If a user wants to acquire a particular auction item displayed on the map the user may select the auction item. As explained in more detail below the user may then receive a telephone call from the online auction providing options to acquire the auction item. The user may then acquire the auction item through transactions over the telephone.

In general GPS apparatus may be a computing device that receives GPS broadcast signals from GPS satellite and translates the GPS broadcast signals into position or location data e.g. longitude and latitude . GPS apparatus may include a display for providing location information. For example as explained in more detail below the display may include graphical user interface GUI of a map with locations of auction items. Examples of GPS apparatus include GPS navigation systems computers with GPS receivers personal digital assistants mobile phones and other GPS apparatuses. In an example embodiment GPS apparatus is portable. Examples of portable GPS apparatuses include mobile computers e.g. laptop computers mobile phones personal digital assistants handheld game consoles digital audio players and other GPS apparatuses.

As shown in GPS apparatus includes auction mapping application programming interface API module . As explained in more detail below auction mapping API module may be configured to retrieve locations of auction items and to map the locations of the auction items on a map. A user may input a search query through GPS apparatus to find one or more auction items on an online auction that match the search query. Briefly an online auction is a publicly held sale over a computer network at which users may bid on or purchase auction items. Auction items may include goods digital goods services properties locations of auction kiosks and other auction items. Examples of goods include electronic devices toys cars and other goods. Examples of digital goods may include digital music video files and other digital goods. Services may include for example gardening services jobs and other services. Auction kiosks are stores that assist a user to sell auction items on online auctions.

GPS apparatus transmits the search query to online auction server . As shown in the search query along with the location of GPS apparatus may be included in request for auction data which is transmitted from the GPS apparatus to online auction server . Online auction server is a computer server that hosts online auction application module . Online auction module is an application software that handles the transactions associated with an online auction. In response to receiving the request as explained in more detail below online auction server searches for auction items that match the search query and transmits auction data from the search to GPS apparatus . Auction data includes a variety of data associated with one or more auction items. For example auction data may include item descriptions item prices metadata item locations user identifiers auction item identifiers and other data associated with the auction item. With auction data GPS apparatus may then display the locations of auction items that match the search query on a map.

Still referring to a user may thereafter select one or more auction items identified on the map to acquire and GPS apparatus transmits the selection to online auction server . In response online auction server accesses auction data associated with the selection and transmits the auction data to voice portal server . In general voice portal server delivers content to telephone . Voice portal server may host a variety of voice based applications such as voice recognition applications and directory assistance applications. Voice portal server receives auction data and calls telephone which may belong to the user of GPS apparatus . Voice portal server then provides a voice rendering of the auction data to telephone . For example voice portal server may call telephone and provide a voice rendering of an identification of the selected auction item a price associated with the auction item and a description of the auction item. Voice portal server may additionally provide options to acquire the auction item. Through the use of telephone a user can make a request to acquire auction item which is transmitted to voice portal server . Voice portal server then transmits or relays request to acquire auction item to online auction server . Upon receiving request to acquire auction item online auction server completes the transaction associated with the acquisition of the auction item.

Although a client server architecture is used in the example embodiment shown in it should be appreciated that other architectures like a distributed architecture or peer to peer architecture can also be used for handling transactions associated with an online auction.

API services module is configured to process a variety of transactions associated with the acquisition of one or more auction items on an online auction. For example as explained in more detail below API services module may be configured to receive a search query associated with the online auction and may transmit a request for auction data. API services module may further receive the auction data in response to transmitting the request. Furthermore as explained in more detail below API services module may receive a selection of the auction item and transmit an auction item identifier that is associated with the auction item to an online auction server. With the receipt of the location of the auction item and the auction data location plotter module is configured to plot the location of one or more auction items on a map.

It should be appreciated that in other example embodiments auction mapping API module may include fewer or more modules apart from those shown in . For example GPS interface module may be integrated together with API services module to form one module.

At the GPS apparatus may then transmit a request for auction data to the online auction server. The request for online auction data includes the search query. In response to the transmission the GPS apparatus at receives auction data from the online auction server that includes the locations of one or more auction items that satisfy the search query. The auction data may additionally include descriptions titles bid prices shipping costs and other auction data associated with auction items. With the auction data the GPS apparatus may then display the locations of the auction items on a map at .

Graphical user interface also may include detail region . In an example embodiment detail region is generated or displayed in response to a selection of icon region . For example graphical user interface initially includes only icon region overlaid over map . If a user wants more information about the auction item associated with icon region the user may select the icon region with for example a mouse or touch screen. In response to the selection of icon region detail region is displayed. Detail region may include auction data associated with the auction item. For example as shown in detail region includes a title an image a shipping cost and other auction data associated with the auction item.

In addition to the auction data a portion of detail region may enable a selection of the auction item to acquire in accordance with an example embodiment. For example detail region may include acquire region which is illustrated as a Get IT now button. As shown in acquire region is located within detail region . However it should be noted that acquire region may also be located outside of detail region . The acquire region or this portion of detail region enables a user to initiate the acquisition of the auction item through a single input command. For example the user may make the selection by a single click on acquire region with a mouse or by touching the acquire region once on a display. As explained in more detail below the user may receive a telephone call. The user may answer the telephone call and acquire the auction item through the telephone call. Accordingly in an example embodiment acquire region or a portion of detail region may enable the initialization of a call to a telephone number through a single input command.

It should be appreciated that any number of suitable layouts can be designated for region and button layouts illustrated above as does not represent all possible layout options available. The displayable appearance of the regions and buttons regions and can be defined by a variety of geometric shapes e.g. rectangle square circle triangle etc. alphanumeric characters e.g. A v t Q 1 9 10 etc. symbols e.g. etc. shading pattern e.g. solid hatch stripes dots etc. and color. Furthermore for example acquire region or other regions may be omitted or dynamically assigned. It should also be appreciated that the regions can be fixed or customizable. In addition a GPS apparatus may have a fixed set of layouts utilize a defined protocol or language to define a layout or an external structure can be reported to the GPS apparatus that defines the layout. Finally clicking or selecting on a region or button of graphics user interface as discussed above may trigger code to cause the functionality described herein.

At the online auction server may then search for one or more auction items based on the received search query and location. In an example the online auction server may search for auction items in a database that satisfy the search query and match a particular zip code. In another example the online auction server may search for auction items located in an area defined by a radius where the longitude and latitude from the request define the center of the area. After the auction item is located the auction data associated with the auction item is accessed at . To access the auction data the auction data may be retrieved from a database. As described above the auction data may include the title description current bid price shipping cost initial bid price and other auction data. The auction data may additionally include a location of the auction item. At online auction server then transmits a response to the request for auction data. Here the response includes the auction data and the response is transmitted to the GPS apparatus.

With the receipt of the auction item identifier the online auction server then accesses the auction data associated with the auction item identifier at . For example access may include the retrieval of the auction data from a database. Here in an example embodiment the auction data may include a user identifier. The user identifier is data that refers to or establishes the identity of a user associated with the acquisition or transaction e.g. a buyer . As described in more detail below the user identifier may be used to locate a telephone number associated with the user. In another example embodiment the auction data may additionally include the telephone number associated with the user. At the auction data is then transmitted to a voice portal server.

As discussed above a voice portal server generally delivers content to a telephone. Here the voice portal server receives auction data from the online auction server. This auction data is associated with one or more auction items that are selected by a user for acquisition. The auction data may include a user identifier and or telephone number. In an example embodiment the user may be registered with the voice portal server and information associated with the user such as telephone number may be stored in the voice portal server. As a result the telephone number of a user stored on the voice portal server may be located with the use of the user identifier. For example the voice portal server may search for and retrieve a telephone number stored in the voice portal server that matches a particular user identifier.

With the telephone number the voice portal server then calls the telephone with the telephone number. The user with the telephone receives the call from the voice portal server and may then bid on or place an order for the auction item through the telephone. For example the voice portal server may call the telephone and provide a voice rendering of the auction data such as a description and current bid of the auction item. The voice portal server may also provide options such that the user may acquire the auction item. Such options may include for example placing a bid on the auction item buying the auction item and placing the auction item on hold. Other options may include cancelling a bid changing an account of the user and other options.

With the options provided the user may make a request to acquire the auction item. The request may be a voice request or an input from the telephone e.g. a telephone key . The voice portal server receives the request to acquire the auction item and transmits the request to the online auction server. If the request is a voice request then voice portal server may apply voice recognition to convert the voice request into a data request which is subsequently transmitted to the online server. In turn the online auction server receives the request to acquire the auction item from the voice portal server and handles the transactions such that the user can acquire the auction item e.g. makes a bid on the auction item directly purchase the auction item and other transactions .

The example computer system includes processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both main memory and static memory which communicate with each other via bus . Computer system may further include video display unit e.g. a plasma display a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . Computer system also includes alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse disk drive unit signal generation device e.g. a speaker and network interface device .

Disk drive unit includes machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. Software may also reside completely or at least partially within main memory and or within processor during execution thereof by computer system main memory and processor also constituting machine readable tangible media.

Software may further be transmitted or received over network via network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP .

While machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

