---

title: Sanitary swab collection system, microfluidic assay device, and methods for diagnostic assays
abstract: Biohazard specimen collection containers are provided with an external disposable skin, that is stripped away and discarded after the biohazardous specimen is collected, thus reducing or eliminating objectionable or dangerous residues on the outside surfaces of the container. Further, we teach that the sample collection container with external disposable skin may also serve as an integrated microfluidic biosample processing and analytical device, thereby providing a single entry, disposable assay unit, kit and system for “world-to-result” clinical diagnostic testing. These integrated assay devices are provided with synergic, multiple safe-handling features for protecting healthcare workers who handle them. The modified collection containers and analytical devices find application, for example, in PCR detection of infectious organisms or pathogenic markers collected on a swab.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08216832&OS=08216832&RS=08216832
owner: Micronics, Inc.
number: 08216832
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100128
---
This application is a continuation of International PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2008 071810 filed Jul. 31 2008 now pending which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 953 045 filed Jul. 31 2007. The foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. U01 AI070801 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to medical and veterinary sample collection devices and to medical and veterinary analytical devices of specialized form and function and to integrated microfluidic devices for both sample collection and analysis. The invention further relates to a method for biohazard sample collection.

The art relating to handling of swabs is well established but remains in need of improvement both to ensure the integrity of the clinical sample and its protection from contamination but also to ensure that healthcare professionals are not unnecessarily or inadvertently exposed to biological material on the exterior surfaces of the swab container. Once the external surfaces are contaminated during sample collection exposure readily occurs when a swab container is passed from hand to hand and no on board means is known to refresh or cleanse the outside surfaces of the sample container.

We have reviewed the patent literature and found little or no teaching that comments on this problem. U.S. Pat. No. 4 803 998 to Kezes relates to a swab retaining vial cap and describes a combination containment vial with cap and with swab mounted inside the cap the vial containing a medium for preserving a sample on the swab during shipment. The swab is removed from the cap to collect a sample and the swab tip can then be broken off when inserted into the vial so that the swab tip drops to the bottom of the vial without contamination by the user. The cap is then sealed. shows a swab with frangible shaft. The patent is indicative of early efforts to protect a sample from contamination. This seems to accurately reflect the overall state of the art as it exists at this filing. We note that while the interior of the vial is carefully protected from contamination the exterior is subject to contamination during handling and becomes a fomite vector for infectious disease. Samples collected in this way are frequently removed for analysis at a separate location and those who handle the sample container may inadvertently be exposed to material on the exterior surface of the sample container.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 991 898 to O Connor Jan. 31 2006 describes a self contained diagnostic test device for collection and detection of an analyte in a biological specimen. The device comprises a tubular swab and reagent dispensing cap. The reagent dispensing cap delivers one or more selected reagents to an assay chamber upon the rotation of the reagent chamber.

In U.S. Pat. No. 7 098 040 to Kaylor a swab based diagnostic test device is provided. The test device contains a reagent and a rupturable seal for adding the reagent to the sample after the swab is sealed inside the device.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 277 646 to Guirguis provides a device for both collecting and testing a fluid specimen. A fluid specimen is collected and an aliquot is transferred to an isolation chamber from which a flow path to a test chamber is opened.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 565 808 to Hudak describes a fluid flow actuating device or structure such as a valve which separates the sample receiving chamber from the test platform. The test method involves collecting a sample contacting the sample with the proprietary test device and detecting the analyte in the sample.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 248 294 to Nason relates to a self contained diagnostic test unit for use in the collection and analysis of a biological specimen. The test unit comprises is tubular housing for capturing a swab. A reagent dispenser cap delivers reagents to the specimen chamber and a diagnostic strip assembly is mounted on the housing so a portion of the specimen can flow by wick action through the test strip producing a visible color change.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 266 266 and 5 879 635 to Nason relate to a reagent dispenser which includes a pair of reagent chambers with selected reagents therein and a dual nib for hermetically sealing the reagent chambers. A portion of the dispenser is deformable to break or otherwise to displace the nib in a manner permitting the two reagents to flow together and mix within one of the reagent chambers. The deformable portion or the dispenser can then be squeezed to express the mixed reagents for delivery to contact the specimen to be analyzed. In a preferred form the dispenser is a cap assembly on an open ended tubular housing configured for receiving a swab.

Similarly U.S. Pat. No. 6 890 484 to Bautista relates to in line test device and describes a swab receiving port integrated into the body of a lateral flow strip. No means for protecting the exterior of the test apparatus is described. Goodfield in Sampling and Assay Device WO1997 23596 discloses a swab and swab container with liquid assay reagents accessible by rupture of foil liners again with no outer disposable protective layer.

All the above devices and methods are deficient for the present purpose in that the operator is exposed to contamination of the external surfaces of the specimen collection container by contact with residues of specimen or unrelated patient derived bodily material which may be unhygienic and grossly objectionable. This problem is apparently not considered.

United States Patent Application 2005 0009200 to Guo relates to a sanitary and compact fecal occult blood collector kit. The swab tip in this case is covered for hygienic purposes . Also disclosed is a package for the swab and the cover. However on closer study the purpose of the cover is again to protect the sample not the handle of the swab contacted by the operator or the external surfaces of the swab collection container and the exterior of the package cannot be cleaned of contaminating matter that accumulates during sampling. Further the swab must again be retrieved from the package. Thus while the sample is protected the user is potentially exposed at multiple levels.

Miniaturizing some of the processes involved in clinical analyses including nucleic acid immunological and enzymatic analysis or combinations thereof has been achieved using microfluidic devices. Microfluidic techniques known in the art include electrophoretic detectors for example those designed by ACLARA BIOSCIENCES Inc. or the LABCHIP by Caliper Technologies Inc and hybridization detectors such as those manufactured by Nanogen of San Diego. Also indicative of the state of the art are PCT Publication WO1994 05414 U.S.Pat. Nos. 5 498 392 5 304 487 5 296 375 5 856 174 6 180 372 5 939 312 5 939 291 5 863 502 6 054 277 6 261 431 6 440 725 5 587 128 5 955 029 5 498 392 5 639 423 5 786 182 6 261 431 6 126 804 5 958 349 6 303 343 6 403 037 6 429 007 6 420 143 6 572 830 6 541 274 6 544 734 6 960 437 6 762 049 6 509 186 6 432 695 7 018 830 and 2001 0046701 2003 0138941 and International Pat. Nos. WO 2003 004162 WO2002 18823 WO2001 041931 WO1998 50147 WO1997 27324 all of which describe apparatuses and methods incorporating various microfluidic processing and analytical operations involved in nucleic acid analysis and are incorporated herein by reference.

Co assigned to MICRONICS Inc of Redmond WA and also incorporated herein in full by reference are U.S. Patent No. 6 743 399 Pumpless Microfluidics U.S. Patent No. 6 488 896 Microfluidic Analysis Cartridge U.S. Patent No. 5 726 404 Valveless Liquid Microswitch U.S. Patent No. 5 932 100 Microfabricated Differential Extraction Device and Method Tangential Flow Planar Microfluidic Fluid Filter U.S. Patent No. 5 872 710 Microfabricated Diffusion Based Chemical Sensor U.S. Patent No. 5 971 158 Absorption Enhancing Differential Extraction Device U.S. Patent No. 6 007 775 Multiple Analyte Diffusion Based Chemical Sensor U.S. Patent No. 6 581 899 Valve for Use in Microfluidic Structures U.S. Patent No. 6 431 212 Valve for Use in Microfluidic Structures U.S. Patent No. 7 223 371 Microfluidic Channel Network Device U.S. Patent No. 6 541 213 Microscale Diffusion Immunoassay U.S. Patent No. 7 226 562 Liquid Analysis Cartridge U.S. Patent No. 5 747 349 Fluorescent Reporter Beads for Fluid Analysis US Patent Applications 2005 0106066 Microfluidic Devices for Fluid Manipulation and Analysis 2002 0160518 Microfluidic Sedimentation 2003 0124619 Microscale Diffusion Immunoassay 2003 0175990 Microfluidic Channel Network Device 2005 0013732 Method and system for Microfluidic Manipulation Amplification and Analysis of Fluids 2007 0042427 Microfluidic Laminar Flow Detection Strip 2005 0129582 System and Method for Heating Cooling and Heat Cycling on a Microfluidic Device and unpublished US Patent documents titled Integrated Nucleic Acid Assays Microfluidic Cell Capture and Mixing Circuit Microfluidic Mixing and Analytical Apparatus System and Method for Diagnosis of Infectious Diseases Methods and Devices for Microfluidic Point of Care Assays Integrated Microfluidic Assay Devices and Methods and Microscale Diffusion Immunoassay Utilizing Multivalent Reactants all of which are hereby incorporated in full by reference. Also representative of microfluidic technologies that are co assigned to MICRONICS are PCT Publications WO 2006 076567 and 2007 064635 all incorporated herein in full by reference for what they enable.

The utility and breadth of microfluidic assays for nucleic acid assays is further demonstrated in the scientific literature the teachings of which are incorporated by reference herein. These teachings include for example Nakano H et al. 1994. High speed polymerase chain reaction in constant flow. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 58 349 52 Wilding P et al. 1994. PCR in a silicon microstructure. Clin Chem 40 9 1815 18 Woolley A T et al. 1996. Functional integration of PCR amplification and capillary electrophoresis in a microfabricated DNA analysis device. Anal Chem 68 4081 86 Burke D T et al. 1997. Microfabrication technologies for integrated nucleic acid analysis. Genome Res 7 189 197 Kopp et al. 1998. Chemical amplification continuous flow PCR on a chip. Science 280 1046 48 Burns M A. 1998. An Integrated Nanoliter DNA Analysis Device. Science 282 484 87 Belgrader P et al. 1999. PCR Detection of bacteria in seven minutes. Science 284 449 50 Lagally E T et al. 2001. Fully integrated PCR capillary electrophoresis microsystem for DNA analysis. Lab Chip 1 102 07 Tudos A J et al. 2001. Trends in miniaturized total analysis systems for point of care testing in clinical chemistry. Lab Chip 1 83 95 Belgrader P et al. 2002. A battery powered notebook thermocycler for rapid multiplex real time PCR analysis. Anal Chem 73 286 89 Hupert L M et al. 2003. Polymer Based Microfluidic Devices for Biomedical Applications. In H Becker and P Woias eds Microfluidics BioMEMS and Medical Microsystems Proc SPIE Vol 4982 52 64 Chartier I et al. 2003. Fabrication of an hybrid plastic silicon microfluidic device for high throughput genotyping. In H Becker and P Woias eds Microfluidics BioMEMS and Medical Microsystems Proc SPIE Vol 4982 208 219 Anderson R C et al. 2000. A miniature integrated device for automated multistep genetic assays. Nucl Acids Res 28 12 e60 i vi Yang J et al. 2002. High sensitivity PCR assay in plastic micro reactors. Lab Chip 2 179 87 Giordano B C et al. 2001. Polymerase chain reaction in polymeric microchips DNA amplification in less than 240 sec. Anal Biochem 291 124 132 Khandurina J et al. 2000. Integrated system for rapid PCR based DNA analysis in microfluidic devices. Anal Chem 72 2995 3000 Chiou J et al. 2001. A Closed Cycle Capillary Polymerase Chain Reaction Machine. Anal Chem 73 2018 21 Yuen P K et al. 2001. Microchip module for blood sample preparation and nucleic acid amplification reactions. Genome Res 11 405 412 Zhou X et al. 2004. Determination of SARS coronavirus by a microfluidic chip system. Electrophoresis. 25 17 3032 9 Liu Y et al. 2002. DNA amplification and hybridization assays in integrated plastic monolithic devices. Anal Chem 74 13 3063 70 Zou Q et al. 2002. Micro assembled multi chamber thermal cycler for low cost reaction chip thermal multiplexing. Sensors Actuators A 102 224 121 Zhang C et al. 2006. PCR Microfluidic devices for DNA amplification. Biotech Adv 24 243 84 and Zhang C and Xing D. 2007. Miniaturized PCR chips for nucleic acid amplification and analysis latest advances and future trends. Nucl Acids Res 35 13 4223 37.

Thus there is a clear and ongoing interest in microfluidic devices for clinical and veterinary diagnostic assays. As these commercial applications increase the world to chip interface is receiving increasing attention and we note that little has been done in the area of sample collection to both improve the validity of nucleic acid amplifications by preventing cross sample contamination and just as importantly to prevent exposure of those persons handling the specimens to objectionable or potentially infectious materials. As has been noted Nelson D. B. et al. 2003. Self Collected Versus Provider Collected Vaginal Swabs for the Diagnosis of Bacterial Vaginosis an Assessment of Validity and Reliability J Clin Epidemiol 56 862 866 there is an increasing trend toward patient self collection of samples often with swabs or cups. Typically the patient is not provided with means to ensure that the external surfaces of the sample collection device does not become contaminated with the sample or related biological fluids during handling. These swabs or cups are typically then processed or handled by ungloved couriers and paraprofessionals and must then be transferred to the analytical device or further handled and processed by nursing and laboratory personnel. The sample collection device thus becomes a fomite potentially capable of spreading infectious disease to numerous persons and a method or means for eliminating or at least reducing the exposure of health workers to the contaminated exterior of the sample collection vials bottles cups tubes and so forth has been a longstanding and unmet need in the healthcare industry.

Furthermore awareness of the dangers of unsafe handing of biological fluids and specimens has increased dramatically in the last two decades and single entry devices are increasingly needed that seamlessly integrate sample preparation extraction and analysis without unnecessary operator exposure. A further objective we have identified is the need to fully integrate the device into a disposable format so that once a sample is collected either by patient or by a health professional all remaining steps of the analysis up to and including display of the result are performed without further personal exposure to the sample. A critical step in this process is thus the refreshing or disinfecting of the external surface sample collection container whether it is also the analytical device or not and to our knowledge satisfactory solutions to this problem have not been recognized or brought forward prior to our disclosure herein.

Swabs are extremely useful for collecting specimens. Following collection of a specimen on a swab the swab must be generally protected during subsequent transport and processing for analysis. During initial handling contamination of the external surfaces of the swab collection container by contact with residues of specimen or unrelated patient derived bodily material which may be unhygienic and grossly objectionable is almost inevitable. Gloves are protective only to the hands on which they are worn not to the swab collection container. We see a solution to this problem as an unrecognized and unmet need with significant potential benefits particularly in reduction of nosocomial infections for example and more generally in reduction of disease transmission to health care workers and also in improvement of sample quality which is mandatory for tests such as PCR where false positives due to cross contamination will invalidate any testing system.

Cross contamination by transmission on the surfaces of fomites is a longstanding problem. We find that this problem can be alleviated or significantly reduced by applying a disposable external skin to the collection device and by removing the skin after the risk of exposure to further contamination is ended. Contamination risk is most great during the act of specimen collection itself and decreases greatly after the specimen collection container is removed from the sampling site. Contamination of the external surfaces of an article passed from hand to hand or hand to machine with normal flora and normal squamous epithelial cells is significantly less likely to result in false diagnostic positives for a pathogenic condition.

We disclose a biohazard swab collection device or container comprising a body with external surfaces an internal hollow volume and a sealable closure for separating said external surfaces from said internal hollow volume said external surface further comprising a disposable external skin layer whereby after the biohazardous swab is enclosed and sealed within the internal hollow volume any biohazardous residues accumulated on the external surfaces are removed by removing and disposing of the disposable external skin layer and further optionally comprising a valve separating said internal hollow volume into a swab receiving chamber and a microfluidic assay circuit with a microfluidic channel and an on board liquid reagent.

We further disclose a method wherein the specimen is not limited to a swab and the specimen collection device is not limited to an analytical device. The general method comprises the steps of 

a providing a sample and a specimen collection container with body and with sample receiving orifice said body with external surface and internal hollow volume said external surface with disposable skin or skins said sample receiving orifice with sealable closure 

d removing said disposable skin or skins from said external surface thereby renewing said external surface.

The following definitions are provided as an aid in interpreting the claims and specification herein. Where works are cited or incorporated by reference and any definition contained therein is inconsistent with that supplied here the definition used therein shall not supersede or limit the definition supplied herein.

Fomite An inanimate object or substance such as a doorknob utensil soap bar or specimen container that is capable of transmitting infectious organisms broadly bacterial and viral from one individual to another typically by hand to hand or hand to mouth exposure to a biological residue on the surface of the inanimate object or substance.

Test samples Representative biosamples taken by swab include for example gingival buccal and mucosal epithelial materials saliva wound exudates pus surgical specimens lung and other respiratory secretions nasal secretions sinus drainage sputum blood urine medial and inner ear contents ocular secretions and mucosa cyst contents cerebral spinal fluid stool diarrhoeal fluid tears mammary secretions ovarian contents ascites fluid mucous gastric fluid gastrointestinal contents urethral discharge vaginal discharge vaginal mucosa synovial fluid peritoneal fluid meconium amniotic fluid semen penile discharge or the like may be presented for testing on a swab. Assay from swabs representative of mucosal secretions and epithelia are acceptable for example mucosal swabs of the throat tonsils gingival nasal passages vagina urethra rectum lower colon and eyes. Besides physiological fluids samples of water industrial discharges food products milk air filtrates and so forth are also likely test specimens. Particularly preferred as samples are biosamples collected on swabs or tampons where a tampon is essentially a handleless swab that is sometimes worn internally before testing.

Biohazard A biohazard is a material either biologically active or inanimate that poses a risk or threat to health. Also included in this category as biohazards sensu lato as defined here are materials of likely biological origin that are visually tangibly or odorously objectionable or repulsive and those materials which are not in fact a threat but which potentially are a threat until tested negative. Biohazards include potentially infectious material of any kind and may contain infectious agents from multiple biological categories including but limited to bacteria and viruses either singly or in one or more combinations thereof and microbial products such as toxins.

Bioassay Target Molecule or analyte of interest or target molecule may include a nucleic acid a protein an antigen an antibody a carbohydrate a cell component a lipid a receptor ligand a small molecule such as a drug and so forth. Target nucleic acids include genes portions of genes regulatory sequences of genes mRNAs rRNAs tRNAs siRNAs cDNA and may be single stranded double stranded or triple stranded. Some nucleic acid targets have polymorphisms deletions and alternate splice sequences. Multiple target domains may exist in a single molecule for example an immunogen may include multiple antigenic determinants. An antibody includes variable regions constant regions and the Fc region which is of value in immobilizing antibodies. The microfluidic analytical devices of the present invention are configured to detect a bioassay target molecule of these sorts singly or in combinations.

Such bioassay target molecules may be associated with a pathogenic condition which is taken as a condition of a mammalian host characterized by the absence of health i.e. a disease infirmity morbidity or a genetic trait associated with potential morbidity.

Microfluidic cartridge a device card or chip with fluidic structures and internal channels having microfluidic dimensions. These fluidic structures may include chambers valves vents vias pumps inlets nipples and detection means for example. Generally microfluidic channels are fluid passages having at least one internal cross sectional dimension that is less than about 500 m and typically between about 0.1 m and about 500 m but we extend the upper limit of the range to 600 um because the macroscopic character of the bead suspensions sometimes used as analytical aids require it. Therefore as defined herein microfluidic channels are fluid passages having at least one internal cross sectional dimension that is less than 600 um.

Microfluidic cartridges may be fabricated from various materials using techniques such as laser stenciling embossing stamping injection molding masking etching and three dimensional soft lithography. Laminated microfluidic cartridges are further fabricated with adhesive interlayers or by adhesiveless bonding techniques such by thermal or pressure treatment of oriented polypropylene or by ultrasonic welding. The microarchitecture of laminated and molded microfluidic cartridges can differ according to the limitations of their fabrication methods.

Microfluidic pumps include for example bulbs bellows diaphragms or bubbles intended to force movement of fluids where the substructures of the pump have a thicknesses or other dimension of less than 1 millimeter. Such pumps include the mechanically actuated recirculating pumps described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 743 399 to Weigl and US 2005 0106066 to Saltsman commonly assigned to the applicant. Such pumps may be robotically operated or operated by hand. Electroosmotic pumps are also provided. Such pumps can be used in place of external drives to propulse the flow of solubilized reagents and sample in microfluidic device based assays.

Blister pack an on board reagent pack or sachet under a deformable or elastic diaphragm. Used to deliver reagents by pressurizing the diaphragm and may appose a sharp such as a metal chevron so that pressure on the diaphragm ruptures the pillow see pillow . These may be used with check valves or closable vents to produce directional fluid flow and reagent delivery. Elastic diaphragms are readily obtained from polyurethane polysilicone and polybutadiene and nitrile for example see elastomer . Deformable inelastic diaphragms are made with polyethylene terephthalate PET MYLAR Biaxially oriented polyethylene terephthalate polypropylene polycarbonate or nylon for example. Other suitable materials for the deformable film include PARAFILM i.e. paraffin film latex foil and polyethylene terephthalate Key factors in selecting a deformable film include the yield point and the deformation relaxation coefficient elastic modulus .

Use of these devices permits delivery or acceptance of a fluid while isolating the contents of the microfluidic device from the external environment and protecting the user from exposure to the fluid contents.

Single entry refers to a microfluidic device card or cartridge that requires or permits only a single introduction of sample and the assay is then conducted within a self contained sealed system. Such devices optionally contain a device for sealing or locking the sample port and an on board means for disinfecting the contents of the device and any waste following completion of the assay. In one embodiment the device can be discarded after use without special precautions.

Waste chamber or pack is a cavity or chamber that serves as a receptacle for sequestering discharged sample rinse solution and waste reagents. Typically also includes a wicking material see wick . Waste packs may also be sealed under an elastic isolation membrane sealingly attached to the body of the microfluidic device. This inner membrane expands as the bibulous material expands thus enclosing the waste material. The cavity outside the isolation membrane is vented to atmosphere so that the waste material is contained and isolated. Waste packs may optionally contain dried or liquid sterilants.

Vent a pore intercommunicating between an internal cavity and the atmosphere. A sanitary or isolation vent also contains a filter element that is permeable to gas but is hydrophobic and resists wetting. Optionally these filter elements have pore diameters of 0.45 microns or less. These filters function both in forward and reverse isolation. Filter elements of this type and construction may also be placed internally for example to isolate a valve or bellows pump from the pneumatic manifold controlling it.

Herein where a means for a function is described it should be understood that the scope of the invention is not limited to the mode or modes illustrated in the drawings alone but also encompasses all means for performing the function that are described in this specification and all other means commonly known in the art at the time of filing. A prior art means encompasses all means for performing the function as are known to one skilled in the art at the time of filing including the cumulative knowledge in the art cited herein by reference to a few examples.

Means for extracting refers to various cited elements of a device such as a solid substrate filter filter plug bead bed frit or column for capturing target nucleic acids from a biological sample and includes the cumulative knowledge in the art cited herein. Extracting further comprises methods of solubilizing and relates to the resuspension of cells and tissue from the tip of a swab. This includes methods for example for dissolution of mucous and protein as described in United States Patent Application 2004 0175695 to Debad. Generally extraction means include a mechanical pumping component that promotes physical resuspension by turbulent or near turbulent flow. Such flow may be reciprocating flow and may be pulsatile at varying frequencies to achieve the desired resuspension in a reasonable interval of time. Extraction means also include use of detergent based buffers sulfhydryl reducing agents proteolytics chaotropes passivators and other solubilizing means.

A means for polymerizing for example may refer to various species of molecular machinery described as polymerases and their cofactors and substrates for example reverse transcriptases and TAQ polymerase and includes the cumulative knowledge of enzymology cited herein by reference to a few examples.

Means for Amplifying The grandfather of this art is the polymerase chain reaction referred to as PCR which is described in detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 4 683 202 and 4 800 159 Ausubel et al. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley and Sons Baltimore Md. 1989 and in Innis et al. PCR Protocols Academic Press Inc. San Diego Calif. 1990 . Polymerase chain reaction methodologies require thermocycling and are well known in the art. Briefly in PCR two primer sequences are prepared that are complementary to regions on opposite complementary strands of a target sequence. An excess of deoxynucleoside triphosphates are added to a reaction mixture along with a DNA polymerase e.g. Taq polymerase. If the target sequence is present in a sample the primers will bind to the target and the polymerase will cause the primers to be extended along the marker sequence by adding on nucleotides. By raising and lowering the temperature of the reaction mixture the extended primers will dissociate from the template to form reaction products excess primers will bind to the template and to the reaction products and the process is repeated. By adding fluorescent intercalating agents PCR products can be detected in real time.

Other amplification protocols include LAMP loop mediated isothermal amplification of DNA reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT PCR ligase chain reaction LCR transcription based amplification systems TAS including nucleic acid sequence based amplification NASBA Rolling Circle RACE and one sided PCR .

These various non PCR amplification protocols have various advantages in diagnostic assays but PCR remains the workhorse in the molecular biology laboratory and in clinical diagnostics. Embodiments disclosed here for microfluidic PCR should be considered representative and exemplary of a general class of microfluidic devices capable of executing one or various amplification protocols.

Means for detecting as used herein refers to an apparatus for displaying an endpoint i.e. the result of an assay and may include a detection channel and test pads and a means for evaluation of a detection endpoint. Detection endpoints are evaluated by an observer visually in a test field or by a machine equipped with a spectrophotometer fluorometer luminometer photomultiplier tube photodiode nephlometer photon counter voltmeter ammeter pH meter capacitative sensor radio frequency transmitter magnetoresistometer or Hall effect device. Magnetic particles beads and microspheres haing or impregnated color or having a higher diffraction index may be used to facilitate visual or machine enhanced detection of an assay endpoint. Magnifying lenses in the cover plate optical filters colored fluids and labeling may be used to improve detection and interpretation of assay results. Means for detection of magnetic particles beads and microspheres may also include embedded or coated labels or tags such as but not limited to dyes such as chromophores and fluorophores radio frequency tags plasmon resonance spintronic radiolabel Raman scattering chemoluminescence or inductive moment as are known in the prior art. Colloidal particles with unique chromogenic signatures depending on their self association are also anticipated to provide detectable endpoints. QDots such as CdSe coated with ZnS decorated on magnetic beads or amalgamations of QDots and paramagnetic Fe3O4 microparticles optionally in a sol gel microparticulate matrix or prepared in a reverse emulsion are a convenient method of improving the sensitivity of an assay of the present invention thereby permitting smaller test pads and larger arrays. Fluorescence quenching detection endpoints are also anticipated. A variety of substrate and product chromophores associated with enzyme linked immunoassays are also well known in the art and provide a means for amplifying a detection signal so as to improve the sensitivity of the assay for example up converting fluorophores. Detection systems are optionally qualitative quantitative or semi quantitative. Visual detection is preferred for its simplicity however detection means can involve visual detection machine detection manual detection or automated detection.

Means for isolation include impermeable cartridge body gas permeable hydrophobic venting bibulous padding in waste chamber disinfectant in waste chamber elastomeric membrane separating pneumatic actuator from blister pack valve with elastomeric membrane actuated by suction pressure suction pressure in said sample entry port on board reagent pack self locking single entry sample port gasketed closure and disposable external skin or skins. Isolation refers both to the protection of the user from potentially biohazardous specimens and to the protection of the specimen from contamination by the user or by foreign environmental materials. Closure means or means for sealingly closing include caps lids threaded closures ziplock closures ball valves gasketed closures gaskets seals snap caps of all sorts bungs corks stoppers lip seals press seals adhesive seals waterproof seals single entry seals tamper proof seals locking seals track slidable sealable covers compression seals one way valves spring loaded valves spring loaded lids septa tee valves snap locking closures in general piston valves double reed valves diaphragm closures hinged closures folding closures Luer lock closures and so forth.

Unless the context requires otherwise throughout the specification and claims which follow the word comprise and variations thereof such as comprises and comprising are to be construed in an open inclusive sense that is as including but not limited to .

 Conventional is a term designating that which is known in the prior art to which this invention relates.

 About and generally are broadening expressions of inexactitude describing a condition of being more or less approximately or almost in the sense of just about where variation would be insignificant obvious or of equivalent utility or function and further indicating the existence of obvious minor exceptions to a norm rule or limit.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Turning now to the figures is a conceptual view of a microfluidic analytical device with integrated sanitary swab collection features. The device which is hand sized is provided with upper and lower disposable external skins lower not shown . Tabs assist in peeling off the skins. These skins are removed after the specimen collection process is completed. Also shown is the swab receiving orifice and sliding closure in the open position for receiving a swab. The closure is provided with a seal and track guide whereby the closure is slid into position sealingly covering the swab receiving orifice. The closure is textured with ribs to aid the thumb in moving from left to right as shown here in order to effectuate swab capture within the device. The card body is bounded by external surfaces .

The tip may be of various shapes or materials. Preferred swab shapes include a pipe cleaner shape of bristles a spade shape with sponge pad and a bud shape with fiber bat. Non limiting examples of synthetic fiber materials useful in forming swabs include acetate fibers aramide fibers polyamide fibers e.g. nylons polyester fibers e.g. polyethylene terephthalate fibers PET polyolefin fibers e.g. polypropylene and polyethylene fibers polyvinyl alcohol fibers polyurethane fibers or foams and mixtures thereof. Further suitable synthetic fibers include bi or tricomponent fibers such as PE PET or PP PE fibers. These fibers can for example be so called core sheath side by side or island in the sea type fibers as may be useful in selected applications. Lyocell fibers are also useful. Non synthetic materials include woven paper or cotton. Fiber chemistry is generally chosen to be compatible with extraction or analytical chemistries.

Swab fibers may be interlaid either knitted or randomly entwined. Interlaid webs or fabrics have been formed from many processes such as for example meltblowing processes spunbonding processes and bonded carded web processes. In particular embodiments interlaid swab materials as utilized in the present invention are produced from polymers such as for example polyethylene or polypropylene. The swab fibers optionally may be made from interbonded fibers for example as of thermoplastic fibers. The term fibers as used herein refers to a broad range of thermoplastic members that can be used to form a nonwoven fabric including members having defined lengths like staple fibers meltblown fibers that show a beginning and an end filaments having endless or continuous lengths and the like. For example and without limiting the generality of the foregoing thermoplastic polymers such as polyolefins including polyethylene polypropylene as well as polystyrene can be used as may be polyesters including polyethylene terephthalate and polyamides including nylons. Also useful are other thermoplastic polymers such as those which are elastomeric including elastomeric polyurethanes and block copolymers. Compatible blends of any of the foregoing may also be used. In addition additives such as wax fillers and the like may be incorporated in amounts consistent with the fiber forming process used to achieve desired results. Other fiber or filament forming materials will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art. Bicomponent fibers may be also used. The fibers may also be formed from solution and examples include viscose. It is only essential that the composition be capable of spinning into filaments or fibers of some form that can be deposited onto a forming surface and thermally formed or interbonded in a manner dependent upon the forming surface. The swab tip may comprise a sponge element.

Sealing closure comprises a gasket or gasket layer . In this embodiment the guide track serves also to force a tight seal between the gasket material and the swab receiving orifice thus forming a fluid tight seal over swab capture chamber . Following capture the swab is treated by flowing extraction reagent or buffer in and out of the swab receiving chamber. The extraction buffer may include detergents solvents such as water and water in combination with DMSO NMP DMF Formamide THF and detergents co detergents cosolvents proteolytics sulfhydryl reducing agents such as n acetyl cysteine and dithiothreitol selective nucleases mucopolysaccharidases cellulases proteases and the like. A discussion of mucolytics is provided in United States Patent Application 2004 0175695 to Debad. Mechanical agitation is important and may be enhanced by sonication such as with piezoelectric transducers. For reciprocal flow air in the chamber can be vented through the waste sequestration chamber or at a secondary vent site. Optionally the swab receiving chamber may contain active pump elements in tandem pairs operating in alternation by positive and negative displacement so that venting is not required. The structure of these paired pump elements consists of elastomeric or flexible diaphragms and the operation requires merely that as the diaphragm of one pump element is compressed the other diaphragm is distended so that the fluid is forced back and forth between the two pump elements. The diaphragms may be operated manually hydraulically electrostatically magnetically or pneumatically as is known in the art.

An important capacity of any such device is the sequestration of medical waste. The device will typically contain buffer and bioactive reagents for sample processing and analysis and all such material is best viewed as biohazardous. Ideally all such waste is retained in the sealed body of the device and can be disposed of without hazard by autoclaving or incinerating the device itself. Shown here is a waste chamber that would in operation be vented. Such vents as are permeable to air but not to liquid are well known. Added isolation is possible using a flexible diaphragm as described in co assigned US Patent Document Integrated Nucleic Acid Assays where fully operative details of assay systems of this sort are disclosed and which is herein incorporated in full by reference. Also useful are absorbent bats.

Preferably the devices are self contained and contain at least on board reagent for conducting the analysis. In some cases the reagent is a fluid for example an extraction buffer or a lysis reagent but in other cases the reagent is a dried biological for example a primer mix an antibody a polymerase a divalent cation or a dried weak acid and its salt. By designing the device to be self contained single entry use at the point of care is enabled. Liquid reagent storage may be achieved by supplying the reagents in sachets which are ruptured when needed by methods known in the art. These methods typically supply a sharp upon which the sachet is compressed so that it ruptures. Compression of the sachet may be by manual means or by pneumatic means.

The theme is repeated in the composite device of . Here the disposable outer skin consists of a Styrofoam block or similar expanded material formed by molding which is fabricated to fit the lower half of the device and a partial lid fitted to the upper half of the device leaving the swab receiving orifice exposed. A tearstrip serves the dual function of adhering the two halves of the outer skin together during sample collection and is then torn or peeled away so that the halves can be separated and the device removed for further processing or analysis. The tearstrip typically includes a freehanging tab to facilitate this. The lower block and upper lid are discarded after the device is removed.

Note that the shape of the blocks forming the outer skin is variable. A clamshell formed of right and left halves is equally suitable as are more complex interdigitated two part blocks. A single block is useful. The dual block system has the advantage that squeezing pressure applied to the lower block has the effect of holding the device in place while the tear strip and upper lid are removed. The device can then be pulled out of the lower block with clean hands and presents an uncontaminated exterior the closure having been pulled over the swab receiving orifice from its protected position under the upper lid.

Note that the order of the steps is not strictly followed if the swab handle is broken off and the device sealed after the external skins are removed and it may be that handling the device in this way is more convenient. However the preferred method is to capture the swab and seal the device before removing and discarding the external protective skins. As claimed the invention is not limited by the order of these steps.

In use the body of the sample collection device is encased in an outer sleeve member and cap member . The outer sleeve member is supplied with an endwise swab receiving orifice and internal swab receiving chamber for collecting the swab. A ball valve type closure is used to capture and seal the swab in the device and a knob is provided for rotating the ball valve from open to closed. The control head may also be rotated and serves to power a spring driven pressure source for the pumps and to initiate the assay protocol. Assay status is shown in the leftmost window . Assay results are shown in the rightmost window .

After the sample is collected the outside protective sleeve is removed and the sample receiving chamber is closed with the ball valve . The cap can then be removed and the apparatus is generally free of external contamination. The sample entry end can be covered. The control head is then rotated and the assay commenced. In a few minutes the assay result is read in the display window. Status and validity of the assay is displayed in the left panel. Optionally the device can be inserted into a machine and the assay conducted by machine aided power and control. The outer sleeve and cap are discarded as contaminated medical waste. At the completion of the assay the device is also discarded along with its entrained specimen.

Note that the embodiment is illustrative of a general concept and is not limited by its specificity. The outside protective sleeves are disposable external skins. The sleeves may be replaced by decals as described in wherein the decals are adapted for a cylindrical body form. Similarly the disposable protective overlayer may be as provided in .

This device is also suitable for collection of tampons which lack the handle characteristic of swabs. The tampon however must be inserted into the swab receiving orifice with tweezers or by other means and the orifice must be dimensioned appropriately. Tampons are useful sample collection devices and their use is hereby taken within the scope of the invention described herein.

This device is conceived as part of a kit the kit consisting of a sterile swab the combination specimen collection device and sheath and a tray. The tray optionally may also contain surgical gloves instructions and labeling aids.

A variation of composite device is shown in . Here the sample is inserted through orifice in external disposable cap into device the body of which contains a sample receiving chamber with threaded neck . After the sample is deposited in the device the cap is immediately removed and a clean sterile lid not shown is threaded onto the neck. The device body thus functions as bottle. Holding the assembly by the clean lid the lower outside protective sheath is then removed.

The external surfaces of the device are now clean and safely handled without gloves. Objectionable materials deposited on the outside sheath are discarded along with the disposable sheaths which function as an external protective skin.

In this embodiment the operator then presses the start button the instrument cycles its status continuously displayed in status bar and the raw data is read from nucleic acid hybridization array . The machine is placed under a modified bar code reader or strip reader and the data is electronically displayed on the reader and transmitted as an electronic medical record to the patient s chart.

These various analytical features are not presently viewed as limitations of the present invention. The present invention relates to methods and devices for collecting specimens and for analyzing specimens in which a pre formed disposable external skin is removed from the collection device or sample holder after the specimen is deposited in it.

Thus in a swab collection container is shown with no analytical capabilities. The composite swab holder consists of an internal bottle and an external skin or sheath so that after the swab is collected and sealed within the internal bottle the external sheath is removed and the swab in its bottle or other sealed vessel is safely transported and handled with the assurance that any biohazardous external residues have been disposed of with the external sheath.

Swab collection container is shown in . Internal swab collection container is shown in . The two figures illustrate essentially a before and after wherein the device is supplied as shown in without collected swab and in with collected swab. The steps involve capturing the swab and removal of the external skins so that the product of the method is the slender clean swab holder shown in .

As supplied the swab collection container has a swab receiving port formed of disposable funnel and barbed lip of the internal swab receiving channel also termed herein an internal hollow volume . The temporary shipping cap is first removed and the swab is inserted tip down into the internal hollow volume . Note that the disposable funnel serves to protect the barbed rim of the internal sheathed tube from contamination with specimen residues. Following collection of the swab and placement within the inner tube the sealing strip or tear strip is removed and the upper protective skin is lifted up and away from the device along with the disposable funnel both of which are discarded. This exposes the uppermost bezeled rim of the inner cylinder. Now as shown in a sealing closure with locking lip or flange and plug can be locked in place over the barbed bezel of the inner cylinder and the outer lower protective sheath is slid off the inner cylinder and discarded. The sealing closure is supplied separately. After these steps the swab is now isolated within the internal hollow volume separated from the external surfaces by closure and the external surfaces are as clean as supplied by the factory.

Note that the removal of the outer shells is a two part process. With a gloved hand the contaminated outer shell is grasped and the upper shell is removed. A clean hand is then used to install the closure and the upper part of the inner cylinder is held while the lower shell is removed. The final specimen container is now free of contamination and can be handled without gloves. To later gain access to the swab fracture lines such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 516 947 may be formed in the internal cylinder which can be formed generally as described in of that publication. In that way it is never necessary to touch the directly swab again. Alternatively the closure of the device of can be a threaded closure and the internal cylinder may be formed with a mating threaded rim and sealing flange. Various combinations are anticipated.

If a patient were to collect the sample we envisage that the patient will place the swab in the device and return it outer shell intact to a healthcare professional or laboratory technician. The technician will then complete the steps of removing the upper shell inserting and sealing the cap and then removing the lower shell taking care to avoid contaminating the external surfaces of the inner cylinder during the process. Between steps of the process the device may be stood on its base which can be formed with a foot as would be useful for stability.

A kit for this process may contain in a tray the device a swab and a closure along with any instructions and labeling.

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations combinations of elements and or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

A swab is provided in a sterile packet the shaft of the swab being formed with a notch separating the handle from the sampling tip. The swab is rubbed in the gingiva separating the teeth from the gums of a child and inserted into a collection device of the invention. The swab handle is bent vigorously so that it breaks at the notch releasing the swab tip with specimen into the device. The swab insertion channel is then covered with a sliding closure that rides in tracks in the housing and sealed irreversibly the sliding closure having a ratcheted underside which mates and locks over a locking tooth or spur on the body of the device. The professional then removes a protective external skin from the device taking care not to contaminate the freshly exposed surfaces and hands the device to an aide for processing.

A swab is provided in a sterile envelope the shaft of the swab being formed of a material suitable for cutting with a blade. The patient is asked to provide a self collected specimen of the vaginal mucosa and is given instructions. The patient collects the sample and inserts the soft tip of the swab into the sample collection device that was provided. The patient hands the device to a health professional who takes it with gloved hands. The health professional closes the cover of the device cutting free the swab handle and discarding it and then removes the disposable external skins on the device taking care not to contaminate the freshly exposed surfaces. After removing the skins the health professional inserts the device into a semi automated analytical apparatus and completes the assay. The result is read and the device with sample is then discarded. The analytical apparatus is equipped with networking capability so as to transmit identifying and smart electronic data as an electronic medical record to a database on a server.

