---

title: Pyrimidine inhibitors of kinase activity
abstract: 

wherein G, L, R, R, n, p, Ar, and Arare defined in the description. Methods of making said compounds, and compositions comprising said compounds which are useful for inhibiting kinases such as IGF-1R are also disclosed.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08536180&OS=08536180&RS=08536180
owner: AbbVie Inc.
number: 08536180
owner_city: North Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100526
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 181 555 which was filed on May 27 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Provided herein are compounds that inhibit protein kinases such as IGF 1R compositions comprising the compounds and methods of treating diseases using the compounds and said compositions.

Receptor tyrosine kinases RTKs have been implicated in cellular signaling pathways that control various cellular functions including cell division growth metabolism differentiation and survival through reversible phosphorylation of the hydroxyl groups of tyrosine residues in proteins. Extracellular signals are transduced via activation of the cell surface receptors with amplification and propagation using a complex choreography of cascades of protein phosphorylation and protein dephosphorylation events to avoid uncontrolled signaling. These signaling pathways are highly regulated often by complex and intermeshed kinase pathways where each kinase may itself be regulated by one or more other kinases and protein phosphatases. The biological importance of these finely tuned systems is such that a variety of cell proliferative disorders have been linked to defects in one or more of the various cell signaling pathways mediated by tyrosine or serine threonine kinases.

Receptor tyrosine kinases RTKs catalyze phosphorylation of certain tyrosyl amino acid residues in various proteins including themselves which govern cell growth proliferation and differentiation. Insulin like growth factor 1 receptor IGF 1R is a transmembrane tyrosine kinase ubiquitous among fetal and post natal cell types. The IGF signaling axis is made up of multiple ligands IGF 1 IGF 2 and Insulin at least six high affinity ligand binding proteins and proteases multiple receptors IGF 1R IGF 2R IR and IRR and many other down stream signaling proteins Pollak M N et al. Nature Reviews Cancer 2004 4 7 505 518 . The structure and function of the IGF 1R has been reviewed by Adams et al. Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 2000 57 1050 1093 and Benito M et al. Int J Biochem Cell Biol 1996 28 5 499 510. The receptor is activated by the ligands IGF 1 and IGF 2 which are mitogenic proteins that signal through the IGF 1R and IR in an endocrine paracrine or autocrine manner. Activation of the IGF 1 receptor tyrosine kinase elicits cellular responses which include cellular proliferation and protection of cells from apoptosis. Id. Over expression of IGF 1R leads to malignant transformation of cultured cells while down regulation can reverse the transformed phenotype of tumor cells and potentially render them susceptible to apoptosis. Id. There are two splice variants of the IR gene the IR isoform which regulates glucose uptake and is expressed in liver muscle and adipose tissue and the exon 11 variant human insulin receptor isoform A IR A binds IGF 2 with high affinity and promotes proliferation and protection from apoptosis Sciacca L. Oncogene 2002 21 54 8240 8250 . IR A is predominantly expressed in fetal tissue and malignancies and at this receptor IGF 2 is more potent than insulin in stimulating cancer cell migration. Sciacca Oncogene 2002 supra . Insulin receptor related receptor tyrosine kinase IRR has 79 homology with the kinase domain of IR and is expressed only in a few limited cell types Dandekar A A et al. Endocrinology 1998 139 8 3578 3584 .

IGF 1R is a hetero tetrameric transmembrane cell surface receptor tyrosine kinase. Benito Int J Biochem Cell Biol 1996 An IGF 1 binding domain is part of the extracellular alpha chain of IGF 1R whereas the intracellular beta chain contains the tyrosine kinase domain. Three tyrosine residues represent autophosphorylation sites specifically Tyr Tyr and Tyrwithin the activation loop of the IGF 1R beta catalytic domain Li W et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2006 281 33 23785 23791 . Phosphorylation of all three is required for full receptor activation and precedes phosphorylation of juxtamembrane tyrosines and carboxy terminus serines. The insulin receptor has three similar autophosphorylation sites on the activation loop and juxtamembrane region. Activation and autophosphorylation results in the recruitment of multiple docking proteins and the generation of intracellular signaling Benito Int J Biochem Cell Biol 1996 . Once activated IGF 1R and IR can phosphorylate or interact directly with a number of intracellular protein substrates including IRS 1 IRS 2 Grb2 Grb10 Grb14 Shc SOC 14.3.3 FAK or indirectly with other proteins like PI3K and MAPK Benito M et al. Int J Biochem Cell Biol 1996 28 5 499 510 Brown G C et al. Biochem. J 1992 284 1 13 Bruning J C et al. Mol. Cell 1998 2 5 559 569 . Focal adhesion kinase FAK is of particular interest because of its role as a regulator of cell survival proliferation migration and invasion. FAK is activated by growth factor receptors such as IGF 1R by binding through its N terminal domain and autophosphorylation at Tyr. Activated or over expressed FAK is common in a wide variety of cancers and may play a role in human carcinogenesis van Nimwegen M J et al. Biochem. Pharmacol. 2007 73 5 597 609 .

In addition to its role in cancers the IGF receptor plays important and diverse roles in growth and development Benito M et al. Int J Biochem Cell Biol 1996 28 5 499 510 . IGF 1R has been implicated in several metabolic and immunological diseases Walenkamp M J et al. Horm. Res. 2006 66 5 221 230 Kurmasheva R. T et al. Biochim. Biophys. Acta Rev on Cancer 2006 1766 1 1 22 Bateman J M et al. Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 2006 63 15 1701 1705 LeRoith D et al. Can. Lett. 2003 195 127 137 and Samani A et al. Endocrine Reviews 28 1 20 47. 

The role of the IGF IGF 1R signaling system in cancer has been thoroughly examined over the last 15 years. In particular the implication of IGF 1R in human cancer stems from its roles in stimulating mitogenesis mobility and metastasis and in protecting against apoptosis. Kurmasheva Biochim. Biophys. Acta 2006 . Interest has grown with the understanding that in addition to its antiapoptotic and mitogenic roles IGF IGF 1R signaling seems to be necessary for the establishment and continuation of a transformed phenotype. It has been well established that constitutive activation or over expression often results in non adherent cell growth even under serum depleted conditions in vitro and is associated with the formation of tumors in nude mice. Kaleko M et al Mol Cell Biol. 1990 10 2 464 473 . Perhaps even more importantly it has been firmly established that cells in which the gene encoding for IGF 1R has been deactivated are totally resistant to transformation by agents which are normally capable of immortalizing normal cells such as over expression of PDGFR or EGFR the T antigen of the SV40 virus the ES protein of bovine papilloma virus and activated ras. DeAngelis T et al. Cell. Physiol. 1995 1640 214 221 Coppola D et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 1994 14 7 4588 4595 Morrione A J Virol. 1995 695300 5303 Sell C et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 1994 14 6 3604 3612 Sell C et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1993 90 23 11217 11221 . Thus IGF 1R has been identified as the major survival factor that protects from oncogene induced cell death Harrington et al. EMBO J. 1994 13 3286 3295 . IGF 1R is expressed in a large number and variety of tumors and the IGFs amplify the tumor growth through their interaction with the receptor. Evidence supporting the role of IGF 1R in carcinogenesis can be found in studies using monoclonal antibodies directed towards the receptor which inhibit the proliferation of numerous cell lines in culture and in vivo Arteaga C et al. Cancer Res. 1989 49 22 6237 6241 Li et al. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Com. 1993 196 1 92 98 Scotlandi K et al. Cancer Res. 1998 58 18 4127 4131 . Dominant negative IGF 1R is capable of inhibiting tumor proliferation Jiang et al. Oncogene 1999 18 44 6071 6077 . The IGF signaling axis is implicated in various tumor types including 

breast cancer Surmacz J. Mammary Gland Bio. Neoplasia 2000 5 1 95 105 LeRoith Can. Lett. 2003 and Artega Cancer Res. 1989 

sarcoma including soft tissue sarcoma e.g. cartilage sarcoma connective tissue chondrosarcoma and fibrous matrix fibrosarcoma and hard bony sarcomas e.g. Ewing s sarcoma osteosarcoma and giant cell tumor of bone Scotlandi Cancer Res. 1998 

lung cancer including non small cell and small cell lung carcinomas and mesotheliomas Jiang Y et al. Oncogene 1999 18 6071 6077 and LeRoith Can. Lett. 2003 

prostate cancer Djavan et al. World J Urol. 2001 19 4 225 233 O Brien et al. Urology 2001 58 1 1 7 and LeRoith Can. Lett. 2003 

colorectal cancer Guo et al. Gastroenterology 1992 102 1101 1108 Durai R et al. Int. J Colorectal Dis. 2005 20 3 203 220 and LeRoith Can. Lett. 2003 

hematologic cancers including lymphoblastic T cell leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia hairy cell leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia chronic neutrophilic leukemia acute lymphoblastic T cell leukemia plasmacytoma immunoblastic large cell leukemia mantle cell leukemia multiple myeloma megakaryoblastic leukemia acute megakaryocytic leukemia promyelocytic leukemia erythroleukemia malignant lymphoma Hodgkins lymphoma non Hodgkins lymphoma lymphoblastic T cell lymphoma Burkitt s lymphoma follicular lymphoma myelodysplastic syndromes Zumkeller W et al. Leuk. Lymph 2002 43 3 487 491 and Qi Ann Hematol. 2006 85 95 101. 

primary CNS tumors including astrocytomas also known as gliomas including glioblastoma multiforme meningiomas and medulloblastomas Zumkeller W et al. Mol. Pathol. 2001 54 4 227 229 Del Valle L et al. Clin. Cancer Res. 2002 8 1822 1830 and Trojan et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1992 89 4874 4878. 

secondary CNS tumors i.e. metastases in the central nervous system e.g. the brain of a tumor originating outside of the central nervous system Burfeind P et al PNAS 1996 93 7263 7268 

thyroid cancer Vella V et al. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 2002 87 245 254 Vella V et al. Mol. Pathol. 2001 54 3 121 124 

buccal cancer cancer of the mouth Brady G et al. Int. J. of Oral Maxillofacial Surg. 2007 36 259 62 .

Thus in virtually all types of human cancers there is a strong association between dysregulation of IGF signaling and carcinogenesis Bohula E A et al. Anticancer Drugs 2003 14 9 669 682 . Inhibition of IGF 1R and or IR expression or function has been shown to block tumor growth and metastasis and also enhance sensitivity to other anti neoplastic therapies including cytotoxic drugs and radiation. Bohula Anticancer Drugs 2003 .

The identification of effective small compounds which specifically inhibit signal transduction and cellular proliferation by modulating the activity of tyrosine kinases to regulate and modulate abnormal or inappropriate cell proliferation differentiation or metabolism is therefore desirable. In particular the identification of methods and compounds that specifically inhibit the function of a tyrosine kinase which is essential for angiogenic processes or the formation of vascular hyperpermeability leading to edema ascites effusions exudates and macromolecular extravasation and matrix deposition as well as associated disorders would be beneficial.

R R and Rare optional substituents and when present are each independently alkyl halogen O alkyl O haloalkyl or haloalkyl 

Aris aryl or heteroaryl each of which is independently unsubstituted or substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents as represented by T wherein each T is selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogen haloalkyl oxo CN NO G OR OC O R SR S O R S O R S O N R R N R R N R C O R N R C O OR N R S O R N R C O N R R N R C O Calkylenyl N R R N R S O N R R C O R C O OR C O N R R Calkylenyl G Calkylenyl OR Calkylenyl OC O R Calkylenyl SR Calkylenyl S O R Calkylenyl S O R Calkylenyl S O N R R Calkylenyl N R R Calkylenyl N R C O R Calkylenyl N R C O OR Calkylenyl N R S O R Calkylenyl N R C O N R R Calkylenyl N R S O N R R Calkylenyl C O R Calkylenyl C O OR and Calkylenyl C O N R R 

two substituents on the vicinal carbon atoms of Ar together with the carbon atoms to which they are attached optionally form a monocyclic 5 or 6 membered heterocycle containing one or two heteroatoms selected from N H O S S O or S O wherein each of the monocyclic heterocycle is optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 alkyl groups 

each occurrence of Rand Rare each independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl Calkylenyl CN Calkylenyl OH Calkylenyl C O OH G or Calkylenyl G 

each occurrence of Gis independently aryl heteroaryl heterocycle cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl each of which is independently unsubstituted or substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents selected from the group consisting of G Calkylenyl G and R 

each occurrence of Gis independently aryl heteroaryl heterocycle cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl each of which is independently unsubstituted or substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 Rgroups 

Aris aryl or heteroaryl each of which is independently unsubstituted or substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 Rgroups 

each occurrence of Ris independently alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogen haloalkyl oxo CN NO OR OC O R SR S O R S O R S O N R R N R R N R C O R N R C O OR N R S O R N R C O N R R N R S O N R R C O R C O OR C O N R R Calkylenyl OR Calkylenyl OC O R Calkylenyl SR Calkylenyl S O R Calkylenyl S O R Calkylenyl S O N R R Calkylenyl N R R Calkylenyl N R C O R Calkylenyl N R C O OR Calkylenyl N R S O R Calkylenyl N R C O N R R Calkylenyl N R S O N R R Calkylenyl C O R Calkylenyl C O OR or Calkylenyl C O N R R 

Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions comprising therapeutically effective amounts of one or more compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These pharmaceutical compositions are useful for the treatment of diseases or conditions described herein.

One embodiment is directed to methods for treating cancers in mammals comprising administering thereto therapeutically effective amounts of one or more compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof alone or in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.

Yet another embodiment pertains to methods of decreasing tumor volume in mammals comprising administering thereto therapeutically effective amounts of one or more compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof alone or in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.

Still another embodiment pertains to methods of treating bladder cancer breast cancer cervical cancer colon cancer endometrial cancer esophageal cancer lung cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer skin cancer stomach cancer or thyroid cancer in mammals or combinations thereof the methods comprising administering thereto therapeutically effective amounts of one or more compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof with or without also administering radiotherapy thereto and alone or in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.

Provided herein are also the use of one or more compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof for the preparation of medicaments for use in the treatment of diseases or conditions described herein particularly for use in the treatment of bladder cancer breast cancer cervical cancer colon cancer endometrial cancer esophageal cancer lung cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer skin cancer stomach cancer or thyroid cancer or combinations thereof in mammals e.g. human in need thereof.

The compounds compositions comprising the compounds and methods for treating or preventing conditions and disorders by administering the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are further described herein.

These and other objectives of the invention are described in the following paragraphs. These objectives should not be deemed to narrow the scope of the invention.

This detailed description is intended only to acquaint others skilled in the art with Applicants invention its principles and its practical application so that others skilled in the art may adapt and apply the invention in its numerous forms as they may be best suited to the requirements of a particular use. This description and its specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only. This invention therefore is not limited to the embodiments described in this patent application and may be variously modified.

In various embodiments there may be variables that occur more than one time in any substituent or in the compound or any other formulae herein. Definition of a variable on each occurrence is independent of its definition at another occurrence. Further combinations of variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. Stable compounds are compounds that can be isolated from a reaction mixture.

As used in the specification and the appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

The term alkenyl as used herein means a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain containing from 2 to 10 carbons and containing at least one carbon carbon double bond. Representative examples of alkenyl include but are not limited to ethenyl 3 methylbut 2 enyl prop 1 enyl 2 propenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyl 3 butenyl 4 pentenyl 5 hexenyl 2 heptenyl 2 methyl 1 heptenyl and 3 decenyl.

The term alkyl as used herein means a saturated straight or branched hydrocarbon chain containing from 1 to 10 carbon atoms. The term Calkyl as used herein means a saturated straight or branched hydrocarbon chain containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Representative examples of alkyl include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl sec butyl iso butyl tert butyl n pentyl isopentyl neopentyl n hexyl 1 methylbutyl 2 methylbutyl 3 methylbutyl 1 1 dimethylpropyl 1 2 dimethylpropyl 2 2 dimethylpropyl 1 methylpropyl 1 ethylpropyl 1 2 2 trimethylpropyl 2 ethylhexyl 3 methylhexyl 2 2 dimethylpentyl 2 3 dimethylpentyl n heptyl n octyl n nonyl and n decyl.

The term alkylene or alkylenyl means a divalent group derived from a saturated straight or branched hydrocarbon chain of from 1 to 10 carbon atoms. The term Calkylenyl means a divalent group derived from a saturated straight or branched chain hydrocarbon of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Representative examples of alkylene include but are not limited to CH CH CH CHC CH CH CH CH CH CH CH C H CH CHCH C CH CHCH CHCHCH CHCHCHCH and CHCH CH CH .

The term alkynyl as used herein means a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and containing at least one carbon carbon triple bond. Representative examples of alkynyl include but are not limited to acetylenyl 1 propynyl 2 propynyl 1 1 dimethylprop 2 ynyl 1 propyl pent 3 ynyl 3 butynyl 2 pentynyl and 1 butynyl.

The term aryl as used herein means phenyl or a bicyclic aryl. The bicyclic aryl is naphthyl or a phenyl fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl or a phenyl fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl. Representative examples of the bicyclic aryl include but are not limited to dihydroindenyl indenyl naphthyl dihydronaphthalenyl and tetrahydronaphthalenyl. The phenyl and the bicyclic aryls with the exception of the bicyclic aryls represented by Arand Ar are attached to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom contained within the phenyl and the bicyclic aryls respectively. The bicyclic aryls represented by Arand Arare attached to the parent moiety through any substitutable carbon atoms within the phenyl moiety of the bicyclic aryls.

The term cycloalkenyl as used herein means a monocyclic or bicyclic ring system containing zero heteroatoms in the ring. The monocyclic cycloalkenyl has three four five six seven or eight carbon atoms and zero heteroatoms. The three or four membered ring systems have one double bond the five or six membered ring systems have one or two double bonds and the seven or eight membered ring systems have one two or three double bonds. Representative examples of monocyclic cycloalkenyls include but are not limited to 2 cyclohexen 1 yl 3 cyclohexen 1 yl 2 4 cyclohexadien 1 yl and 3 cyclopenten 1 yl. Bicyclic cycloalkenyls are exemplified by a monocyclic cycloalkenyl fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl or a monocyclic cycloalkenyl fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl. Representative examples of bicyclic ring systems include but are not limited to 3a 4 5 6 7 7a hexahydro 1H indenyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 3aH indene and octahydronaphthalenyl. The cycloalkenyl groups are appended to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable carbon atom within the groups and may contain one or two alkylene bridges of 1 2 3 or 4 carbon atoms wherein each bridge links two non adjacent atoms within the groups.

The term cycloalkyl as used herein means a monocyclic or a bicyclic cycloalkyl or a spirocyclic cycloalkyl. The monocyclic cycloalkyl is a carbocyclic ring system containing 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 carbon atoms and zero heteroatoms as ring atoms and zero double bonds. Examples of monocyclic cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl. Bicyclic cycloalkyl is exemplified by a monocyclic cycloalkyl fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl. Representative examples of bicyclic cycloalkyls include but are not limited to bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane bicyclo 6.1.0 nonane octahydroindene and decahydronaphthalene. The monocyclic and the bicyclic cycloalkyl groups may contain one or two alkylene bridges of 1 2 3 or 4 carbon atoms wherein each bridge links two non adjacent atoms within the groups. Examples of such bridged cycloalkyls include but are not limited to bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl bicyclo 3.1.1 heptyl bicyclo 2.2.2 octyl bicyclo 3.3.1 nonyl adamantyl tricyclo 3.3.1.1 decane and noradamantyl octahydro 2 5 methanopentalene . Spirocyclic cycloalkyl is exemplified by a monocyclic or a bicyclic cycloalkyl wherein two of the substituents on the same carbon atom of the ring together with said carbon atom form a 3 4 5 or 6 membered monocyclic cycloalkyl. An example of a spirocyclic cycloalkyl is spiro 2.5 octane. The monocyclic bicyclic and spirocyclic cycloalkyl groups can be appended to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable carbon atom of the groups.

The term Ccycloalkyl as used herein means a 3 4 5 or 6 membered monocyclic cycloalkyl as defined herein.

The term haloalkyl as used herein means an alkyl group as defined herein in which one two three four five six or seven hydrogen atoms are replaced by halogen. Representative examples of haloalkyl include but are not limited to chloromethyl 2 fluoroethyl 2 fluoropropyl 2 fluoro 1 methylethyl 2 2 difluoroethyl trifluoromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 dimethylethyl difluoromethyl 3 fluoro 3 methylbutyl 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl pentafluoroethyl 2 chloro 3 fluoropentyl and 2 iodoethyl.

The term Chaloalkyl as used herein means a Calkyl group as defined herein in which one two three four five six or seven hydrogen atoms are replaced by halogen.

The term heteroaryl as used herein means a monocyclic heteroaryl or a bicyclic heteroaryl. The monocyclic heteroaryl is a 5 or 6 membered ring containing at least one heteroatom independently selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The 5 membered ring contains two double bonds and one two three or four heteroatoms. The 6 membered ring contains three double bonds and one two three or four heteroatoms. Representative examples of monocyclic heteroaryl include but are not limited to furanyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl tetrazolyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thienyl triazolyl and triazinyl. The bicyclic heteroaryl is exemplified by a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to phenyl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a monocyclic heteroaryl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a monocyclic heterocycle. Non limiting examples of bicyclic heteroaryls include but are not limited to benzofuranyl benzoxadiazolyl 1 3 benzothiazolyl benzimidazolyl benzodioxolyl benzothienyl chromenyl cinnolinyl furopyridine indolyl indazolyl isoindolyl isoquinolinyl naphthyridinyl oxazolopyridine quinolinyl and thienopyridinyl. The monocyclic and the bicyclic heteroaryl groups with the exception of the bicyclic heteroaryls represented by Arand Ar are connected to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable carbon atom or any substitutable nitrogen atom contained within the groups. The bicyclic heteroaryls represented by Arand Arare connected to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable carbon atoms of the monocyclic heteroaryl moiety of the group. The nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms of the heteroaryl rings of present compounds may optionally be oxidized and are contemplated within the scope of the invention.

The term heterocycle or heterocyclic as used herein means a monocyclic or a bicyclic or a spirocyclic ring system containing at least one heteroatom. The monocyclic heterocycle is a 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 membered monocyclic ring containing at least one heteroatom independently selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The 3 or 4 membered ring contains 1 heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O N and S and optionally one double bond. The 5 membered ring contains zero or one double bond and one two or three heteroatoms in the ring selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The 6 7 or 8 membered ring contains zero one or two double bonds and one two or three heteroatoms in the ring selected from the group consisting of O N and S. Non limiting examples of monocyclic heterocycles include but are not limited to azetidinyl azepanyl aziridinyl diazepanyl 1 3 dioxanyl 1 4 dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl 4 5 dihydroisoxazol 5 yl 3 4 dihydropyran 6 yl 1 3 dithiolanyl 1 3 dithianyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl oxadiazolinyl oxadiazolidinyl oxazolinyl oxazolidinyl oxetanyl piperazinyl piperidinyl pyranyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrothienyl thiadiazolinyl thiadiazolidinyl thiazolinyl thiazolidinyl thiomorpholinyl thiopyranyl and trithianyl. The bicyclic heterocycle is exemplified by a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl group or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl group or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle group. Non limiting examples of bicyclic heterocycle include but are not limited to 1 3 benzodioxol 4 yl 1 3 benzodithiolyl 2 3 dihydro 1 4 benzodioxinyl dihydrobenzofuranyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzothienyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indolyl and 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolinyl. Spirocyclic heterocycle means a monocyclic or bicyclic heterocycle ring wherein two substituents on the same carbon atom together with said carbon atom form a 3 4 5 or 6 membered monocyclic cycloalkyl or monocyclic heterocycle. One example of a spiroheterocycle is 5 oxaspiro 3 4 octane. The monocyclic bicyclic and spirocyclic heterocycle groups are connected to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable carbon atom or any substitutable nitrogen atom contained within the group. The monocyclic or bicyclic heterocycle groups may contain an alkenylene bridge of 2 3 or 4 carbon atoms or one or two alkylene bridges of 1 2 3 or 4 carbon atoms wherein each bridge links two non adjacent carbon atoms within the groups. Examples of such bridged heterocycles include but are not limited to oxaadamantane 2 oxatricyclo 3.3.1.1 decane octahydro 2 5 epoxypentalene hexahydro 2H 2 5 methanocyclopenta b furan hexahydro 1H 1 4 methanocyclopenta c furan oxabicyclo 2.2.1 heptane and 2 4 dioxabicyclo 4.2.1 nonane. The nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms in the heterocycle rings may optionally be oxidized e.g. 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholinyl thiomorpholine sulfone and the nitrogen atoms may optionally be quarternized.

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with up to a particular number of non hydrogen radicals that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to that particular number of non hydrogen radicals or by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent whichever is less. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with up to 5 non hydrogen radicals then any heteroaryl with less than 5 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by up to only as many non hydrogen radicals as the heteroaryl has substitutable positions. To illustrate tetrazolyl which has only one substitutable position would be optionally substituted with up to one non hydrogen radical.

The terms treat treating and treatment refer to a method of alleviating or abrogating a disease and or its attendant symptoms.

The terms prevent preventing and prevention refer to a method of preventing the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms or barring a subject from acquiring a disease. As used herein prevent preventing and prevention also include delaying the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms and reducing a subject s risk of acquiring a disease.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of the compound being administered sufficient to prevent development of or alleviate to some extent one or more of the symptoms of the condition or disorder being treated.

The term modulate refers to the ability of a compound to increase or decrease the function or activity of a kinase. Modulation as used herein in its various forms is intended to encompass antagonism agonism partial antagonism and or partial agonism of the activity associated with kinase. Kinase inhibitors are compounds that e.g. bind to partially or totally block stimulation decrease prevent delay activation inactivate desensitize or down regulate signal transduction. Kinase activators are compounds that e.g. bind to stimulate increase open activate facilitate enhance activation sensitize or up regulate signal transduction.

The term composition as used herein is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts. By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

The subject is defined herein to include animals such as mammals including but not limited to primates e.g. humans cows sheep goats horses dogs cats rabbits rats mice and the like. In preferred embodiments the subject is a human.

Particular values of variable groups in compounds of formula I are as follows. Such values may be used where appropriate with any of the other values definitions claims or embodiments defined hereinbefore or hereinafter.

In certain embodiments ring Gis formula i . Thus examples of compounds include herein but not limited to are those of formula I i 

Other embodiments provide compounds of formula I wherein Gis formula ii . Examples include but not limited to are those having formula I ii 

Still another class of compounds of formula I include those wherein Gis formula Iv such as those of formula I iv 

Variables Ar Ar R R R m m n p and Lfor compounds of formula I i I ii I iii and I iv are as disclosed above in the Summary and below in the Detailed Description sections.

R R and Rare optional substituents on any substitutable atoms within the rings unless noted otherwise.

In conjunction with any above or below embodiments the variable m for compounds of formula I I i and I iv has meanings as provided for in the Summary section. For example one embodiment pertains to compounds of formula I I i or I iv wherein m is 0. In one embodiment of compounds of formula I I i or I iii m is 1 or 2.

In conjunction with any above or below embodiments m for compounds of formula I I ii and I iii has meanings as provided for in the Summary section. For example one class of compounds of formula I I ii and I iii include those defined wherein m is 0 or 1.

One class of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv includes those defined wherein each of the optional substituent R when present is independently Calkyl halogen or Chaloalkyl. In one embodiment each of the optional substituent R when present is Calkyl. For example R when present is methyl or ethyl.

In conjunction with any above or below embodiments the variable n for compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv has meanings as disclosed in the Summary for example n is 0. In certain class of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv n is 1 or 2.

In the class of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein n is 1 or 2 Ris as defined in the Summary. In certain embodiments each R when present is independently Calkyl halogen or Chaloalkyl. In one embodiment the optional substituent R when present is Calkyl. For example Ris methyl.

In one class of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv p is 0. In another class of compounds p is 1 or 2.

In the class of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein p is 1 or 2 Ris substituted on the phenyl ring of the benzimidazoyly moiety and has meanings as defined in the Summary. For example in certain embodiments each of the optional substituents R when present is independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl halogen O Calkyl O Chaloalkyl and Chaloalkyl. For example when present each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of methyl ethyl F Cl O methyl O trifluoromethyl and trifluoromethyl.

Lfor compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv has meanings as set forth in the Summary. In one class of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv Lis a bond. In certain embodiments Lis N H . In other embodiments Lis CRR wherein R R and q are as described in the Summary and embodiments herein.

One class of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv includes those wherein q is 1 or 2. In certain embodiments q is 1.

Rand Rhave values as disclosed in the Summary. In conjunction with any above or below embodiments of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv Rand Rare the same or different and are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl for example Calkyl such as but not limited to methyl . In one embodiment Rand Rare both hydrogen. In another embodiment one of Rand Ris hydrogen and the other is Calkyl such as but not limited to methyl.

Arhas values as described in the Summary. In one embodiment Aris optionally substituted aryl. In another embodiment Aris optionally substituted heteroaryl. In yet another embodiment Aris optionally substituted phenyl. In a further embodiment Aris optionally substituted monocyclic heteroaryl.

The optional substituents of Arare as defined in the Summary. In conjunction with any above or below embodiments of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv each of these optional substituents of Arcan be the same or different and are for example independently alkyl e.g. Calkyl such as but not limited to methyl halogen e.g. Cl F and the like haloalkyl e.g. Chaloalkyl such as but not limited to trifluoromethyl or OR wherein Ris as disclosed in the Summary. In certain embodiments Ris Calkyl such as but not limited to methyl.

Arhas values as described in the Summary. For example in conjunction with any above or below embodiments of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or 1 iv Aris phenyl or monocyclic heteroaryl each of which is optionally substituted as described in the Summary and Detailed Description sections. In one embodiment Aris optionally substituted aryl. In another embodiment Aris an optionally substituted heteroaryl for example an optionally substituted monocyclic heteroaryl. In yet another embodiment Aris optionally substituted phenyl. In still another embodiment Aris optionally substituted pyrazolyl or pyridinyl.

The optional substituents of Arare as defined in the Summary. For example in conjunction with any above or below embodiments of compounds of formula I I i 1 ii I iii or I iv each of the optional substituents of Arare the same or different and when present are each independently alkyl e.g. Calkyl such as but not limited to methyl halogen e.g. F Cl and the like haloalkyl e.g. Chaloalkyl such as but not limited to trifluoromethyl G e.g. heterocycle such as but not limited to morpholinyl piperazinyl pyrrolidinyl thiomorpholinyl piperidinyl and the like and Cmonocyclic cycloalkyl such as but not limited to cyclopropyl each of these rings is optionally substituted as described in the Summary OR S O R S O N R R N R R N R C O Calkylenyl N R R Calkylenyl G G for example is heterocycle such as but not limited to morpholinyl piperazinyl pyrrolidinyl thiomorpholinyl piperidinyl each of which is optionally substituted as described in the Summary Calkylenyl OR or Calkylenyl N R R wherein R R R and Rare as described in the Summary. When Aris phenyl two substituents on the vicinal carbon atoms of Ar together with the carbon atoms to which they are attached may form a monocyclic heterocycle ring as described in the Summary for example they may form a monocyclic heterocycle such as

It is appreciated that compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii and I iv with combinations of the above embodiments and subsets of the particular groups defined including particular more particular and preferred embodiments are contemplated.

Accordingly one aspect relates to a group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein Lis a bond and Aris optionally substituted aryl.

Another aspect relates to a group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein Lis N H and Aris optionally substituted aryl.

Yet another aspect relates to a group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein Lis CRR and Aris optionally substituted aryl.

Still another aspect relates to a group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein Lis a bond and Aris optionally substituted heteroaryl.

Another aspect relates to a group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein Lis N H and Aris optionally substituted heteroaryl.

Yet another aspect relates to a group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein Lis CRR and Aris optionally substituted heteroaryl.

Still another aspect relates to a group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein Lis a bond and Aris optionally substituted phenyl.

Another aspect relates to a group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein Lis N H and Aris optionally substituted phenyl.

Yet another aspect relates to a group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv wherein Lis CRR and Aris optionally substituted phenyl.

Within each group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv as described in the preceding paragraphs Ar R R R R R m m n p q and the optional substituents of Arand Ar are as described in the Summary and Detailed Description.

Thus of each group of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv as described in the preceding paragraphs examples of a subgroup include those wherein Aris phenyl or monocyclic heteroaryl each of which is optionally substituted.

Examples of another subgroup of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv include those wherein Aris optionally substituted aryl.

Examples of another subgroup of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv include those wherein Aris optionally substituted phenyl.

Yet other examples of a subgroup of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv include those wherein Aris optionally substituted heteroaryl.

Further examples of a subgroup of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv include those wherein Aris optionally substituted monocyclic heteroaryl for example but not limited thereto pyrazolyl pyridinyl each of which is optionally substituted .

For each of the groups and subgroups of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv described above R R R R R m m n p q and the optional substituents of Arand Ar are as described in the Summary and Detailed Description. For example in one embodiment n m and p are 0 and m is 0 or 1. In other embodiments examples include but are not limited to those wherein m and n are 0 p is 1 or 2 m is 0 or 1 Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl halogen O Calkyl O Chaloalkyl and Chaloalkyl. For example Ris selected from the group consisting of methyl ethyl F Cl O methyl O trifluoromethyl and trifluoromethyl. Yet other examples include but are not limited to those wherein m and n are 0 p is 1 m is 0 or 1 and Ris O Calkyl e.g. O methyl .

For each of the groups and subgroups of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii or I iv described above R R and q are as described in the Summary and Detailed description. For example q is 1 or 2. In certain embodiments q is 1. For example Rand Rare the same or different and are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl for example Calkyl such as but not limited to methyl . In other embodiment Rand Rare both hydrogen. In another embodiment one of Rand Ris hydrogen and the other is Calkyl such as but not limited to methyl.

Non limiting examples of compounds of formula I I i I ii I iii and I iv include but are not limited to 

Compounds of the present application may exist as stereoisomers wherein asymmetric or chiral centers are present. These stereoisomers are R or S depending on the configuration of substituents around the chiral carbon atom. The terms R and S used herein are configurations as defined in IUPAC 1974 Recommendations for Section E Fundamental Stereochemistry Pure Appl. Chem. 1976 45 13 30.

It will be appreciated that two or more asymmetric centers may be present in the present compounds hence several diastereomers and enantiomers of the exemplified structures will often be possible. It is intended that pure diasteromers pure enantiomers and mixtures thereof are within the scope of the invention.

Various stereoisomers including enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures thereof including racemates are contemplated. Individual stereoisomers of present compounds may be prepared synthetically from commercially available starting materials that contain asymmetric or chiral centers or by preparation of racemic mixtures followed by resolution of the individual stereoisomer using methods that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Examples of resolution are for example i attachment of a mixture of enantiomers to a chiral auxiliary separation of the resulting mixture of diastereomers by recrystallization or chromatography followed by liberation of the optically pure product or ii separation of the mixture of enantiomers or diastereomers on chiral chromatographic columns.

Geometric isomers may exist in the present compounds. Thus various geometric isomers and mixtures thereof resulting from the disposition of substituents around a carbon carbon double bond a carbon nitrogen double bond a cycloalkyl group or a heterocycle group are part of the invention. Substituents around a carbon carbon double bond or a carbon nitrogen bond are designated as being of Z or E configuration and substituents around a cycloalkyl or a heterocycle are designated as being of cis or trans configuration.

Within the present application it is to be understood that compounds disclosed hererin may exist as individual tautomers or equilibrium mixtures thereof wherein a proton of a compound shifts from one atom to another.

Though structural representations within this specification may show only one of the possible tautomeric or stereoisomeric forms it is to be understood that the invention encompasses any tautomeric or stereoisomeric form and mixtures thereof and is not to be limited merely to any one tautomeric or stereoisomeric form utilized within the naming of the compounds or drawings.

The present compounds can exist in radiolabeled or isotope labeled form containing one or more atoms having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number most abundantly found in nature. Isotopes of atoms such as hydrogen carbon phosphorous sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine include but are not limited to H H C P S F Cl and I. Compounds that contain other radioisotopes of these and or other atoms are within the scope of this invention. In one embodiment the isotope labeled compounds contain deuterium H tritium H or C radioisotopes. Isotope and radiolabeled compounds of this invention can be prepared by the general methods well known to persons having ordinary skill in the art. Such isotope and radiolabeled compounds can be conveniently prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the above Examples and Schemes by substituting a readily available isotope or radiolabeled reagent for a non labeled reagent. The isotope and radiolabeled compounds of the invention may be used as standards to determine the effectiveness of IGF IR ligands or modulators in the binding assays. The isotope and radiolabeled compounds of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof may also be used for treating or preventing diseases or conditions described herein.

The following example describes the assay that may be used to identify compounds having kinase activity.

IGF 1R kinase activity was assayed by a homogenous time resolved fluorescence HTRF in vitro kinase assay Mathis G. . J Biomol Screen 1999. 4 6 p. 309 314 . Specifically 10 L C terminal GST tagged recombinant human IGF 1R amino acids 954 1367 expressed by baculovirus in Sf21 cells Cell Signaling Technology was mixed with 10 L inhibitor various concentrations 2 final DMSO and 10 L of ATP 50 M final concentration in reaction buffer 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 10 mM MgCl 2 mM MnCl 0.1 BSA and 1 mM DTT 40 L final volume . The reaction was initiated by addition of 10 L of biotinylated peptide substrate Biotin Ahx AEEEYFFLFA 0.5 M final concentration in a black 384 well plate Packard . After 60 minutes incubation at room temperature the reaction was quenched by addition of 60 L stop revelation buffer to give 30 mM EDTA 1 g mL streptavidin APC Prozyme 50 ng mL anti phosphotyrosine mAb PT66 K Europium Cryptate 30 mM HEPES pH 7.5 120 mM KF 0.005 Tween 20 0.05 BSA . The quenched reaction was allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 hour and then read in a time resolved fluorescence detector Envision Perkin Elmer at 615 nm and 665 nm simultaneously. The ratio between the signal of 615 nm and 665 nm was used in the calculation of the IC.

Table 1 demonstrates the utility of the representative examples of compounds described herein as inhibitors of IGF 1R kinases. In Table 1 A represents ICof less than 10 nM B represents ICof between 10 nM and 50 nM C represents ICof between 51 nM and 100 nM D represents ICof between 101 nM and 500 nM and E represents ICof greater than 500 nM.

In one aspect the present invention provides methods of using one or more compounds or composition described herein to treat or prevent a disease or condition involving mediation overexpression or disregulation of IGF 1R kinases in a mammal. In particular compounds described herein are expected to have utility in treatment of diseases or conditions during which protein kinases such as IGF 1R kinase family members are expressed.

In one group of embodiments diseases and conditions of humans or other animals that can be treated with inhibitors of IGF 1R kinases include but are not limited to diseases involving overexpression or unregulation of a protein kinase family member such as but not limited to cancer. Cancers include but are not limited to hematologic and solid tumor types such as acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia monocytic myeloblastic adenocarcinoma angiosarcoma astrocytoma myelomonocytic and promyelocytic acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer including estrogen receptor positive breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma Burkitt s lymphoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma dysproliferative changes dysplasias and metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma gastric carcinoma germ cell testicular cancer gestational trophobalstic disease glioblastoma head and neck cancer heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma liposarcoma lung cancer including small cell lung cancer and non small cell lung cancer lymphangioendothelio sarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma lymphoma including diffuse large B cell lymphoma follicular lymphoma Hodgkin s lymphoma and non Hodgkin s lymphoma malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma peripheral T cell lymphoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer including hormone insensitive refractory prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors carcinomas and sarcomas stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma testicular cancer including germ cell testicular cancer thyroid cancer Waldenstr m s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer Wilms tumor and the like.

It is also expected that compounds described herein would be useful in treating pediatric cancers or neoplasms including embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia pediatric acute myelogenous leukemia pediatric alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma pediatric anaplastic ependymoma pediatric anaplastic large cell lymphoma pediatric anaplastic medulloblastoma pediatric atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor of the central nervous system pediatric biphenotypic acute leukemia pediatric Burkitts lymphoma pediatric cancers of Ewing s family of tumors such as primitive neuroectodermal rumors pediatric diffuse anaplastic Wilm s tumor pediatric favorable histology Wilm s tumor pediatric glioblastoma pediatric medulloblastoma pediatric neuroblastoma pediatric neuroblastoma derived myelocytomatosis pediatric pre B cell cancers such as leukemia pediatric osteosarcoma pediatric rhabdoid kidney tumor pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma and pediatric T cell cancers such as lymphoma and skin cancer and the like.

The methods of the present invention typically involve administering to a subject in need of therapeutic treatment therapeutically effective amounts of one or more compound of formula I . Therapeutically effective amounts of a compound having formula I depend on recipient of treatment disease treated and severity thereof composition comprising it time of administration route of administration duration of treatment potency rate of clearance and whether or not another drug is co administered. The amount of a compound having formula I used to make a composition to be administered daily to a patient in a single dose or in divided doses is from about 0.03 to about 200 mg kg body weight. Single dose compositions contain these amounts or a combination of submultiples thereof.

Further provided herein are methods of using one or more compounds or composition of the invention in combination with one or more additional active agents. Compounds described herein are expected to be useful when used with 

alkylating agents angiogenesis inhibitors antibodies antimetabolites antimitotics antiproliferatives aurora kinase inhibitors other apoptosis promoters for example Bcl xL Bcl w and Bfl 1 inhibitors Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors BiTE Bi Specific T cell Engager antibodies biologic response modifiers cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors cell cycle inhibitors cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors DVD Ig s leukemia viral oncogene homolog ErbB2 receptor inhibitors growth factor inhibitors heat shock protein HSP 90 inhibitors histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors hormonal therapies immunologicals inhibitors of apoptosis proteins IAP s intercalating antibiotics kinase inhibitors mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors microRNA s mitogen activated extracellular signal regulated kinase inhibitors multivalent binding proteins non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs poly ADP adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase PARP inhibitors platinum chemotherapeutics polo like kinase Plk inhibitors proteosome inhibitors purine analogs pyrimidine analogs receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors retinoids deltoids plant alkaloids small inhibitory ribonucleic acids siRNA s topoisomerase inhibitors combinations thereof and the like.

A BiTE antibody is a bi specific antibody that directs T cells to attach cancer cells by simultaneously binding the two cells. The T cell then attacks the target cancer cell. Exemplary BiTE antibodies include adecatumumab Micromet MT201 blinatumomab Micromet MT103 and the like.

SiRNA s are molecules having endogenous RNA bases or chemically modified nucleotides. The modifications shall not abolish cellular activity but rather impart increased stability and or increased cellular potency. Examples of chemical modifications include phosphorothioate groups 2 deoxynucleotide 2 OCH containing ribonucleotides 2 F ribonucleotides 2 methoxyethyl ribonucleotides or a combination thereof. The siRNA can have varying lengths 10 200 bps and structures hairpins single double strands bulges nicks gaps mismatches and processed in the cell to provide active gene silencing. In certain embodiments a double stranded siRNA dsRNA can have the same number of nucleotides on each strand blunt ends or asymmetric ends overhangs . The overhang of 1 2 nucleotides can be present on the sense and or the antisense strand as well as present on the 5 and or the 3 ends of a given strand.

Multivalent binding proteins are binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. The multivalent binding protein is preferably engineered to have the three or more antigen binding sites and is generally not a naturally occurring antibody. The term multispecific binding protein means a binding protein capable of binding two or more related or unrelated targets. Dual variable domain DVD binding proteins are tetravalent or multivalent binding proteins binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Such DVDs may be monospecific i.e. capable of binding one antigen or multispecific i.e. capable of binding two or more antigens. DVD binding proteins comprising two heavy chain DVD polypeptides and two light chain DVD polypeptides are referred to as DVD Ig. Each half of a DVD Ig comprises a heavy chain DVD polypeptide a light chain DVD polypeptide and two antigen binding sites. Each binding site comprises a heavy chain variable domain and a light chain variable domain with a total of 6 CDRs involved in antigen binding per antigen binding site.

Alkylating agents include altretamine AMD 473 AP 5280 apaziquone bendamustine brostallicin busulfan carboquone carmustine BCNU chlorambucil CLORETAZINE laromustine VNP 40101M cyclophosphamide decarbazine estramustine fotemustine glufosfamide ifosfamide KW 2170 lomustine CCNU mafosfamide melphalan mitobronitol mitolactol nimustine nitrogen mustard N oxide ranimustine temozolomide thiotepa TREANDA bendamustine treosulfan rofosfamide and the like.

Angiogenesis inhibitors include endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase Tie 2 inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitors insulin growth factor 2 receptor IGFR 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 9 MMP 9 inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors thrombospondin analogs vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase VEGFR inhibitors and the like.

Antimetabolites include ALIMTA metrexed disodium LY231514 MTA 5 azacitidine XELODA capecitabine carmofur LEUSTAT cladribine clofarabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate cytosine arabinoside decitabine deferoxamine doxifluridine eflornithine EICAR 5 ethynyl 1 D ribofuranosylimidazole 4 carboxamide enocitabine ethylcytidine fludarabine 5 fluorouracil alone or in combination with leucovorin GEMZAR gemcitabine hydroxyurea ALKERAN melphalan mercaptopurine 6 mercaptopurine riboside methotrexate mycophenolic acid nelarabine nolatrexed ocfosfate pelitrexol pentostatin raltitrexed Ribavirin triapine trimetrexate S 1 tiazofurin tegafur TS 1 vidarabine UFT and the like.

Bcl 2 proteins inhibitors include AT 101 gossypol GENASENSE G3139 or oblimersen Bcl 2 targeting antisense oligonucleotide IPI 194 IPI 565 N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide ABT 737 N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide ABT 263 GX 070 obatoclax and the like.

CDK inhibitors include AZD 5438 BMI 1040 BMS 032 BMS 387 CVT 2584 flavopyridol GPC 286199 MCS 5A PD0332991 PHA 690509 seliciclib CYC 202 R roscovitine ZK 304709 and the like.

COX 2 inhibitors include ABT 963 ARCOXIA etoricoxib BEXTRA valdecoxib BMS347070 CELEBREX celecoxib COX 189 lumiracoxib CT 3 DERAMAXX deracoxib JTE 522 4 methyl 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl 1H pyrrole MK 663 etoricoxib NS 398 parecoxib RS 57067 SC 58125 SD 8381 SVT 2016 S 2474 T 614 VIOXX rofecoxib and the like.

EGFR inhibitors include ABX EGF anti EGFR immunoliposomes EGF vaccine EMD 7200 ERBITUX cetuximab HR3 IgA antibodies IRESSA gefitinib TARCEVA erlotinib or OSI 774 TP 38 EGFR fusion protein TYKERB lapatinib and the like.

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include CP 724 714 CI 1033 canertinib HERCEPTIN trastuzumab TYKERB lapatinib OMNITARG 2C4 petuzumab TAK 165 GW 572016 ionafarnib GW 282974 EKB 569 PI 166 dHER2 HER2 vaccine APC 8024 HER 2 vaccine anti HER 2neu bispecific antibody B7.her2IgG3 AS HER2 trifunctional bispecific antibodies mAB AR 209 mAB 2B 1 and the like. Histone deacetylase inhibitors include depsipeptide LAQ 824 MS 275 trapoxin suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA TSA valproic acid and the like. HSP 90 inhibitors include 17 AAG nab 17 AAG CNF 101 CNF 1010 CNF 2024 17 DMAG geldanamycin IPI 504 KOS 953 MYCOGRAB human recombinant antibody to HSP 90 NCS 683664 PU24FCl PU 3 radicicol SNX 2112 STA 9090 VER49009 and the like.

Inhibitors of apoptosis proteins include ApoMab a fully human affinity matured IgG1 monoclonal antibody antibodies that target TRAIL or death receptors e.g. pro apoptotic receptor agonists DR4 and DR5 conatumumab ETR2 ST01 GDC0145 lexatumumab HGS 1029 LBY 135 PRO 1762 and tratuzumab.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs include AMIGESIC salsalate DOLOBID diflunisal MOTRIN ibuprofen ORUDIS ketoprofen RELAFEN nabumetone FELDENE piroxicam ibuprofen cream ALEVE naproxen and NAPROSYN naproxen VOLTAREN diclofenac INDOCIN indomethacin CLINORIL sulindac TOLECTIN tolmetin LODINE etodolac TORADOL ketorolac DAYPRO oxaprozin and the like.

PDGFR inhibitors include C 451 CP 673 CP 868596 and the like. Platinum chemotherapeutics include cisplatin ELOXATIN oxaliplatin eptaplatin lobaplatin nedaplatin PARAPLATIN carboplatin satraplatin and the like. Polo like kinase inhibitors include BI 2536 and the like.

VEGFR inhibitors include AVASTIN bevacizumab ABT 869 AEE 788 ANGIOZYME a ribozyme that inhibits angiogenesis Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. axitinib AG 13736 AZD 2171 CP 547 632 IM 862 MACUGEN pegaptamib NEXAVAR sorafenib BAY43 9006 pazopanib GW 786034 vatalanib PTK 787 ZK 222584 SUTENT sunitinib SU 11248 VEGF trap ZACTIMA vandetanib ZD 6474 and the like.

Antibiotics include intercalating antibiotics aclarubicin actinomycin D amrubicin annamycin adriamycin BLENOXANE bleomycin daunorubicin CAELYX or MYOCET liposomal doxorubicin elsamitrucin epirbucin glarbuicin ZAVEDOS idarubicin mitomycin C nemorubicin neocarzinostatin peplomycin pirarubicin rebeccamycin stimalamer streptozocin VALSTAR valrubicin zinostatin and the like.

Topoisomerase inhibitors include aclarubicin 9 aminocamptothecin amonafide amsacrine becatecarin belotecan BN 80915 CAMPTOSAR irinotecan hydrochloride camptothecin CARDIOXANE dexrazoxine diflomotecan edotecarin ELLENCE or PHARMORUBICIN epirubicin etoposide exatecan 10 hydroxycamptothecin gimatecan lurtotecan mitoxantrone orathecin pirarbucin pixantrone rubitecan sobuzoxane SN 38 tafluposide topotecan and the like.

Antibodies include AVASTIN bevacizumab CD40 specific antibodies chTNT 1 B denosumab ERBITUX cetuximab HUMAX CD4 zanolimumab IGF1R specific antibodies lintuzumab PANOREX edrecolomab RENCAREX WX G250 RITUXAN rituximab ticilimumab trastuzimab and the like.

Hormonal therapies include ARIMIDEX anastrozole AROMASIN exemestane arzoxifene CASODEX bicalutamide CETROTIDE cetrorelix degarelix deslorelin DESOPAN trilostane dexamethasone DROGENIL flutamide EVISTA raloxifene AFEMA fadrozole FARESTON toremifene FASLODEX fulvestrant FEMARA letrozole formestane glucocorticoids HECTOROL doxercalciferol RENAGEL sevelamer carbonate lasofoxifene leuprolide acetate MEGACE megesterol MIFEPREX mifepristone NILANDRON nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate PLENAXIS abarelix prednisone PROPECIA finasteride rilostane SUPREFACT buserelin TRELSTAR luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH VANTAS Histrelin implant VETORYL trilostane or modrastane ZOLADEX fosrelin goserelin and the like.

Deltoids and retinoids include seocalcitol EB1089 CB1093 lexacalcitrol KH1060 fenretinide PANRETIN aliretinoin ATRAGEN liposomal tretinoin TARGRETIN bexarotene LGD 1550 and the like.

PARP inhibitors include ABT 888 olaparib KU 59436 AZD 2281 AG 014699 BSI 201 BGP 15 INO 1001 ONO 2231 and the like.

Plant alkaloids include but are not limited to vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine and the like.

Examples of immunologicals include interferons and other immune enhancing agents. Interferons include interferon alpha interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon beta interferon gamma 1a ACTIMMUNE interferon gamma 1b or interferon gamma n1 combinations thereof and the like. Other agents include ALFAFERONE IFN BAM 002 oxidized glutathione BEROMUN tasonermin BEXXAR tositumomab CAMPATH alemtuzumab CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 decarbazine denileukin epratuzumab GRANOCYTE lenograstim lentinan leukocyte alpha interferon imiquimod MDX 010 anti CTLA 4 melanoma vaccine mitumomab molgramostim MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogamicin NEUPOGEN filgrastim OncoVAC CL OVAREX oregovomab pemtumomab Y muHMFG1 PROVENGE sipuleucel T sargaramostim sizofilan teceleukin THERACYS Bacillus Calmette Guerin ubenimex VIRULIZIN immunotherapeutic Lorus Pharmaceuticals Z 100 Specific Substance of Maruyama SSM WF 10 Tetrachlorodecaoxide TCDO PROLEUKIN aldesleukin ZADAXIN thymalfasin ZENAPAX daclizumab ZEVALIN 90Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and the like.

Biological response modifiers are agents that modify defense mechanisms of living organisms or biological responses such as survival growth or differentiation of tissue cells to direct them to have anti tumor activity and include krestin lentinan sizofiran picibanil PF 3512676 CpG 8954 ubenimex and the like. Pyrimidine analogs include cytarabine ara C or Arabinoside C cytosine arabinoside doxifluridine FLUDARA fludarabine 5 FU 5 fluorouracil floxuridine GEMZAR gemcitabine TOMUDEX ratitrexed TROXATYL triacetyluridine troxacitabine and the like.

Antimitotic agents include batabulin epothilone D KOS 862 N 2 4 hydroxyphenyl amino pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide ixabepilone BMS 247550 paclitaxel TAXOTERE docetaxel PNU100940 109881 patupilone XRP 9881 larotaxel vinflunine ZK EPO synthetic epothilone and the like.

Compounds described herein can also be used as radiosensitizeser that enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy. Examples of radiotherapy include external beam radiotherapy teletherapy brachtherapy and sealed unsealed source radiotherapy and the like.

Additionally compounds described herein may be combined with other chemptherapeutic agents such as ABRAXANE ABI 007 ABT 100 farnesyl transferase inhibitor ADVEXIN Ad5CMV p53 vaccine ALTOCOR or MEVACOR lovastatin AMPLIGEN poly I poly C12U a synthetic RNA APTOSYN exisulind AREDIA pamidronic acid arglabin L asparaginase atamestane 1 methyl 3 17 dione androsta 1 4 diene AVAGE tazarotene AVE 8062 combreastatin derivative BEC2 mitumomab cachectin or cachexin tumor necrosis factor canvaxin vaccine CEAVAC cancer vaccine CELEUK celmoleukin CEPLENE histamine dihydrochloride CERVARIX human papillomavirus vaccine CHOP C CYTOXAN cyclophosphamide H ADRIAMYCIN hydroxydoxorubicin O Vincristine ONCOVIN P prednisone CYPAT cyproterone acetate combrestatin A4P DAB 389 EGF catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria toxin fused via a His Ala linker to human epidermal growth factor or TransMID 107R diphtheria toxins dacarbazine dactinomycin 5 6 dimethylxanthenone 4 acetic acid DMXAA eniluracil EVIZON squalamine lactate DIMERICINE T4N5 liposome lotion discodermolide DX 8951f exatecan mesylate enzastaurin EP0906 epithilone B GARDASIL quadrivalent human papillomavirus Types 6 11 16 18 recombinant vaccine GASTRIMMUNE GENASENSE GMK ganglioside conjugate vaccine GVAX prostate cancer vaccine halofuginone histerelin hydroxycarbamide ibandronic acid IGN 101 IL 13 PE38 IL 13 PE38QQR cintredekin besudotox IL 13 pseudomonas exotoxin interferon interferon JUNOVAN or MEPACT mifamurtide lonafarnib 5 10 methylenetetrahydrofolate miltefosine hexadecylphosphocholine NEOVASTAT AE 941 NEUTREXIN trimetrexate glucuronate NIPENT pentostatin ONCONASE a ribonuclease enzyme ONCOPHAGE melanoma vaccine treatment ONCOVAX IL 2 Vaccine ORATHECIN rubitecan OSIDEM antibody based cell drug OVAREX MAb murine monoclonal antibody paditaxel PANDIMEX aglycone saponins from ginseng comprising 20 S protopanaxadiol aPPD and 20 S protopanaxatriol aPPT panitumumab PANVAC VF investigational cancer vaccine pegaspargase PEG Interferon A phenoxodiol procarbazine rebimastat REMOVAB catumaxomab REVLIMID lenalidomide RSR13 efaproxiral SOMATULINE LA lanreotide SORIATANE acitretin staurosporine talabostat PT100 TARGRETIN bexarotene TAXOPREXIN DHA paclitaxel TELCYTA canfosfamide TLK286 temilifene TEMODAR temozolomide tesmilifene thalidomide THERATOPE STn KLH thymitaq 2 amino 3 4 dihydro 6 methyl 4 oxo 5 4 pyridylthio quinazoline dihydrochloride TNFERADE adenovector DNA carrier containing the gene for tumor necrosis factor TRACLEER or ZAVESCA bosentan tretinoin Retin A tetrandrine TRISENOX arsenic trioxide VIRULIZIN ukrain derivative of alkaloids from the greater celandine plant vitaxin anti alphavbeta3 antibody XCYTRIN motexafin gadolinium XINLAY atrasentan XYOTAX paclitaxel poliglumex YONDELIS trabectedin ZD 6126 ZINECARD dexrazoxane ZOMETA zolendronic acid zorubicin and the like.

Combination therapy includes administration of a single pharmaceutical dosage formulation containing one or more of the compounds and one or more additional pharmaceutical agents as well as administration of the compounds and each additional pharmaceutical agent in its own separate pharmaceutical dosage formulation. For example one or more active ingredients including present compounds and additional pharmaceutical agents may be administered to the patient together in a single oral dosage composition having a fixed ratio of each active ingredient such as a tablet or capsule or each active ingredient may be administered in separate oral dosage formulations.

Separate dosage formulations may be administered at essentially the same time e.g. concurrently or at separately staggered times e.g. sequentially .

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof are also provided. The pharmaceutical compositions comprise compounds of interest formulated together with one or more non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.

Another aspect relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising compounds described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers alone or in combination with one or more additional active agents.

The pharmaceutical compositions can be administered to humans and other mammals orally rectally parenterally intracisternally intravaginally intraperitoneally topically as by powders ointments or drops bucally or as an oral or nasal spray. The term parenterally as used herein refers to modes of administration which include intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal intrasternal subcutaneous and intraarticular injection and infusion.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein means a non toxic inert solid semi solid or liquid filler diluent encapsulating material or formulation auxiliary of any type. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sugars such as but not limited to lactose glucose and sucrose starches such as but not limited to corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as but not limited to sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate powdered tragacanth malt gelatin talc excipients such as but not limited to cocoa butter and suppository waxes oils such as but not limited to peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil glycols such a propylene glycol esters such as but not limited to ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate agar buffering agents such as but not limited to magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide alginic acid pyrogen free water isotonic saline Ringer s solution ethyl alcohol and phosphate buffer solutions as well as other non toxic compatible lubricants such as but not limited to sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate as well as coloring agents releasing agents coating agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the composition according to the judgment of the formulator.

Pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral injection comprise pharmaceutically acceptable sterile aqueous or nonaqueous solutions dispersions suspensions or emulsions as well as sterile powders for reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers diluents solvents or vehicles include water ethanol polyols such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and the like vegetable oils such as olive oil injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate and suitable mixtures thereof. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of coating materials such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants.

These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as preservatives wetting agents emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example paraben chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents such as sugars sodium chloride and the like. Prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

In some cases in order to prolong the effect of the drug it is desirable to slow the absorption of the drug from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This can be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material with poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of the drug then depends upon its rate of dissolution which in turn may depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively delayed absorption of a parenterally administered drug form is accomplished by dissolving or suspending the drug in an oil vehicle.

Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsule matrices of the drug in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide. Depending upon the ratio of drug to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of drug release can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions which are compatible with body tissues.

The injectable formulations can be sterilized for example by filtration through a bacterial retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable medium just prior to use.

Solid dosage forms for oral administration include capsules tablets pills powders and granules. In such solid dosage forms the active compound may be mixed with at least one inert pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate and or a fillers or extenders such as starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and silicic acid b binders such as carboxymethylcellulose alginates gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone sucrose and acacia c humectants such as glycerol d disintegrating agents such as agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain silicates and sodium carbonate e solution retarding agents such as paraffin f absorption accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds g wetting agents such as cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate h absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite clay and i lubricants such as talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate and mixtures thereof. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage form may also comprise buffering agents.

Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules using such carriers as lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.

The solid dosage forms of tablets dragees capsules pills and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may optionally contain opacifying agents and may also be of a composition such that they release the active ingredient s only or preferentially in a certain part of the intestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include polymeric substances and waxes.

The active compounds can also be in micro encapsulated form if appropriate with one or more of the above mentioned carriers.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active compounds the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as for example water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol dimethyl formamide oils in particular cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof.

Besides inert diluents the oral compositions may also include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents.

Suspensions in addition to the active compounds may contain suspending agents as for example ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters microcrystalline cellulose aluminum metahydroxide bentonite agar agar tragacanth and mixtures thereof.

Compositions for rectal or vaginal administration are preferably suppositories which can be prepared by mixing the compounds of this invention with suitable non irritating carriers or carriers such as cocoa butter polyethylene glycol or a suppository wax which are solid at room temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active compound.

Present compounds can also be administered in the form of liposomes. As is known in the art liposomes are generally derived from phospholipids or other lipid substances. Liposomes are formed by mono or multi lamellar hydrated liquid crystals which are dispersed in an aqueous medium. Any non toxic physiologically acceptable and metabolizable lipid capable of forming liposomes can be used. The present compositions in liposome form can contain in addition to a compound of the present invention stabilizers preservatives excipients and the like. The preferred lipids are natural and synthetic phospholipids and phosphatidyl cholines lecithins used separately or together.

Methods to form liposomes are known in the art. See for example Prescott Ed. Methods in Cell Biology Volume XIV Academic Press New York N.Y. 1976 p. 33 et seq.

Dosage forms for topical administration include powders sprays ointments and inhalants. The active compound may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any needed preservatives buffers or propellants which may be required. Ophthalmic formulations eye ointments powders and solutions are also contemplated as being within the scope of this invention. This invention also is directed in part to all salts of the compounds described herein. A salt of a compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s properties such as for example enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or other solvents. Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable and or physiologically compatible. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts commonly used to form alkali metal salts and to form addition salts of free acids or free bases. In general these salts typically may be prepared by conventional means by reacting for example the appropriate acid or base with a compound of the invention.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt means those salts which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of humans and lower animals without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like and are commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well known in the art. For example S. M. Berge et al. describe pharmaceutically acceptable salts in detail in J. Pharmaceutical Sciences 1977 66 1 et seq . The salts can be prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of the compounds of the invention or separately by reacting a free base function with a suitable organic acid. Representative acid addition salts include but are not limited to acetate adipate alginate citrate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate digluconate glycerophosphate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate fumarate hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate isothionate lactate malate maleate methanesulfonate nicotinate 2 naphthalenesulfonate oxalate palmitoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate propionate succinate tartrate thiocyanate phosphate glutamate bicarbonate p toluenesulfonate and undecanoate. Also the basic nitrogen containing groups can be quaternized with such agents as lower alkyl halides such as but not limited to methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates like dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides such as but not limited to decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides like benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others. Water or oil soluble or dispersible products are thereby obtained. Examples of acids which can be employed to form pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include such inorganic acids as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid and such organic acids as acetic acid fumaric acid maleic acid 4 methylbenzenesulfonic acid succinic acid and citric acid.

Basic addition salts can be prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of compounds of this invention by reacting a carboxylic acid containing moiety with a suitable base such as but not limited to the hydroxide carbonate or bicarbonate of a pharmaceutically acceptable metal cation or with ammonia or an organic primary secondary or tertiary amine. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to cations based on alkali metals or alkaline earth metals such as but not limited to lithium sodium potassium calcium magnesium and aluminum salts and the like and nontoxic quaternary ammonia and amine cations including ammonium tetramethylammonium tetraethylammonium methylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine triethylamine diethylamine ethylamine and the like. Other representative organic amines useful for the formation of base addition salts include ethylenediamine ethanolamine diethanolamine piperidine piperazine and the like.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or prodrug as used herein represents those prodrugs of the compounds of the present invention which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of humans and lower animals without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio and effective for their intended use.

Contemplated also are compounds formed by synthetic means or formed by in vivo biotransformation of a prodrug.

Compounds described herein can exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms including hydrated forms such as hemi hydrates. In general the solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water and ethanol among others are equivalent to the unsolvated forms.

This invention is intended to encompass compounds of the invention when prepared by synthetic processes or by metabolic processes. Preparation of the compounds by metabolic processes includes those occurring in the human or animal body in vivo or processes occurring in vitro.

The compounds of the invention may be prepared by a variety of processes well known for the preparation of compounds of this class. For example the compounds of the invention wherein the groups G L Ar Ar R R R R R m m n p and q have meanings as set forth in the summary section unless otherwise noted can be synthesized as shown in Schemes 1 5.

Abbreviations which have been used in the descriptions of the Schemes and the Examples that follow are DMF for N N dimethylformamide and DMSO for dimethyl sulfoxide.

Compounds of formula I may be prepared by reacting compounds of formula I with an appropriate boronic acids of formula 2 wherein R is H or an appropriate boronic esters of formula 2 wherein R is alkyl. The reaction can be carried out in the presence of a palladium 0 source a base and a suitable solvent. Suitable source of palladium 0 includes but are not limited to tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 . Typical bases for use in the reaction include for example cesium carbonate and cesium fluoride. Lower alcohol such as methanol toluene 1 2 dimethoxyethane and mixtures thereof are examples of suitable solvent.

Intermediates of formula 1 wherein Gis formula i used in the foregoing step can be prepared as shown using general procedures as shown in Scheme 2.

Compounds of formula 4 can be prepared by treating amines 3 with chloroacetic acid and a base in a suitable solvent. Examples of suitable bases include but are not limited to tertiary amines such as triethylamine and diisopropylethyl amine. Water is an example of a suitable solvent.

Treatment of 4 with phosphorusoxychloride at elevated temperature and in a suitable solvent e.g. toluene provides compounds of formula 5 .

Compounds of formula 6 may be prepared by acylation of compounds of formula 5 . Typically the acylation is conducted by treating 5 with an acylating agent optionally in the presence of an acid or Lewis acid catalyst and optionally in a suitable solvent with optional heating. Typical acylating agents will be readily determined by those skilled in the art. An example of an acylating agent is acetic anhydride. Typical acid for use in this reaction is sulfuric acid.

Compounds of formula 7 may be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 6 with a dimethylformamide dialkyl acetal of formula CH NCH OR wherein Ris alkyl or cycloalkyl. Typical dimethylformamide dialkyl acetal for use in this method include but are not limited to dimethylformamide dimethylacetal and dimethylformamide di tert butyl acetal. The reaction is carried out by mixing compounds of formula 6 with the dimethylformamide dialkyl acetal optionally with heating. Typical solvent includes but is not limited to N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone.

Mixing compounds of formula 7 with amidines of formula 8 in a suitable solvent optionally in the presence of a base particularly when the amidine is in a salt form and heating the reaction mixture to about 50 C. 150 C. afford compounds of formula 1 . Typical solvents include lower alcohols such as methanol ethanol isopropanol dimethylformamide and the like. The base is typically sodium alkoxide potassium carbonate or an amine base such as triethylamine.

Alternatively the conversion of compounds of formula 7 to intermediates 1a may be carried out by a treating 7 with guanidine hydrochloride and a base as described in the preceding paragraph to obtain compounds of formula 9 b treating amines 9 with sodium nitrite in acetic acid and water to provide compounds of formula 10 c treating 10 with phosphorusoxy chloride at elevated temperature to provide chloro compounds of formula 11 and d treating compounds of formula 11 with an appropriate amines of formula ArNHin the presence of an acid such as but not limited to HCl and a suitable solvent at elevated temperature. Examples of suitable solvent include but are not limited to lower alcohols such as 2 propanol.

Alternatively 11 may be converted to 1a in the presence of a suitable base at elevated temperature. Examples of suitable bases include but not limited to tertiary amines such as diethylisopropyl amine.

Conversion of 11 to 1a may also be accomplished by metal catalysed cross coupling reaction conditions known to those skilled in the art for example by utilizing a palladium catalyst and a suitable ligand e.g. palladium II acetate and Xantphos to facilitate the reaction.

As shown in Scheme 3 compounds of formula I iv can be prepared from compounds of formula I i by catalytic hydrogenation using a catalyst such as 5 paladium on charcoal. The reaction is generally performed at elevated temperature and pressure in an alcoholic solvent such as but not limited to methanol.

As shown in Scheme 4 2 aminothiazoles of formula 12 when reacted with bromoacetic acid provide compounds of formula 13 . The reaction is typically performed by heating in a solvent such as but not limited to ethanol. Compounds of formula 14 can be prepared from compounds of formula 13 using phosphorusoxychloride in a solvent such as but not limited to toluene. Compounds of formula 15 can be prepared from compounds of formula 14 using sulfuric acid and acetic anhydride. The reaction is typically performed at elevated temperatures. Compounds of formula 16 can be prepared from compounds of formula 15 using N N dimethylformamide di tert butyl acetal and heat. The reaction is typically performed in a solvent such as but not limited to N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. Compounds of formula 17 can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 16 with compounds of formula 8 using a base such as but not limited to potassium carbonate. Compounds of formula I ii can be prepared from compounds of formula 17 by cross coupling with boronic acids or esters of formula 2 using a palladium catalyst such as but not limited to palladium tetrakistriphenylphosphine as described in the literature and methods described herein.

As shown in Scheme 5 4 carboethoxypyrazoles of formula 19 when reacted with bis cyclopentadienyl Cl dimethylaluminium methylenetitanium Tebbe s Reagent followed by acidic hydrolysis provides compounds of formula 20 . The reaction is typically performed in a solvent mixture such as but not limited to toluene tetrahydrofuran with hydrolysis of the intermediate enolether by an acid such as aqueous hydrochloric acid. Compounds of formula 21 can be prepared from compounds of formula 20 using sulfuric acid and acetic anhydride. The reaction is typically performed at elevated temperatures. Compounds of formula 22 can be prepared from compounds of formula 21 using N N dimethylformamide di tert butyl acetal and heat. The reaction is typically performed in a solvent such as but not limited to N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. Compounds of formula 22 can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 21 with compounds of formula 8 using a base such as but not limited to potassium carbonate. Compounds of formula I iii which are representative of the compounds of this invention can be prepared from compounds of formula 22 by cross coupling with boronic acids or esters of formula 2 using a palladium catalyst such as but not limited to palladium tetrakistriphenylphosphine as described in the literature and methods described herein.

It will be appreciated that the synthetic schemes and specific examples as illustrated in the Examples section are illustrative and are not to be read as limiting the scope of the invention as it is defined in the appended claims. All alternatives modifications and equivalents of the synthetic methods and specific examples are included within the scope of the claims.

Optimum reaction conditions and reaction times for each individual step may vary depending on the particular reactants employed and substituents present in the reactants used. Unless otherwise specified solvents temperatures and other reaction conditions may be readily selected by one of ordinary skill in the art. Specific procedures are provided in the Examples section. Reactions may be worked up in the conventional manner e.g. by eliminating the solvent from the residue and further purified according to methodologies generally known in the art such as but not limited to crystallization distillation extraction trituration and chromatography. Unless otherwise described the starting materials and reagents are either commercially available or may be prepared by one skilled in the art from commercially available materials using methods described in the chemical literature.

Routine experimentations including appropriate manipulation of the reaction conditions reagents and sequence of the synthetic route protection of any chemical functionality that may not be compatible with the reaction conditions and deprotection at a suitable point in the reaction sequence of the method are included in the scope of the invention. Suitable protecting groups and the methods for protecting and deprotecting different substituents using such suitable protecting groups are well known to those skilled in the art examples of which may be found in T. Greene and P. Wuts Protecting Groups in Organic Synthesis 3ed. John Wiley Sons NY 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Synthesis of the compounds of the invention may be accomplished by methods analogous to those described in the synthetic schemes described hereinabove and in specific examples.

Starting materials if not commercially available may be prepared by procedures selected from standard organic chemical techniques techniques that are analogous to the synthesis of known structurally similar compounds or techniques that are analogous to the above described schemes or the procedures described in the synthetic examples section.

When an optically active form of a compound of the invention is required it may be obtained by carrying out one of the procedures described herein using an optically active starting material prepared for example by asymmetric induction of a suitable reaction step or by resolution of a mixture of the stereoisomers of the compound or intermediates using a standard procedure such as chromatographic separation recrystallization or enzymatic resolution .

Similarly when a pure geometric isomer of a compound of the invention is required it may be obtained by carrying out one of the above procedures using a pure geometric isomer as a starting material or by resolution of a mixture of the geometric isomers of the compound or intermediates using a standard procedure such as chromatographic separation.

Following Examples may be used for illustrative purposes and should not be deemed to narrow the scope of the invention.

In a 100 mL round bottom flask 2 chloroacetic acid 10 g 106 mmol in water 16.3 mL was treated with triethylamine 16.67 mL 120 mmol dropwise over about 6 minutes. After stirring the reaction at ambient temperature for 10 minutes 2 aminopyridine 11.76 g 125 mmol was added and the mixture was heated at 90 C. for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and diluted with ethanol 11 mL . The resulting suspension was stirred in an ice bath for 1 hour and filtered. The solid collected was washed with about 30 mL cold ethanol and dried under vacuum to a constant weight to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 152.9 M H .

To a 250 mL round bottom flask was charged EXAMPLE 1A 15.19 g 100 mmol and toluene 64 mL . The mixture was heated to 112 C. and POCl 27.9 mL was added dropwise over 15 minutes. The mixture became very thick with initial portions added. Upon complete addition the suspension was stirred at 112 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was allowed to cool to ambient temperature and was added slowly to 320 mL of stirring cold about 5 C. water over 15 minutes. After stirring vigorously for 30 minutes the layers were separated in a separatory funnel. The aqueous layer was cooled in an ice bath and neutralized to pH 7 with 10 aqueous NaOH about 400 mL with stirring. The resulting suspension was filtered and the solid collected was dissolved in CHCl 300 mL and dried over MgSO. The aqueous filtrate was extracted with CHCl 4 120 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried over MgSO. The two CHClsolutions drying over MgSOwere filtered combined and concentrated to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 153.0 M H .

To a 500 mL round bottom flask was charged EXAMPLE 1B 12.2 g 80 mmol acetic anhydride 320 mL and sulfuric acid 0.852 mL 16 mmol . The mixture was heated at 140 C. for 2 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature poured into 400 mL cold water and extracted with 2 400 mL CHCl. The combined organic extracts were washed with 350 mL 1N NaOH and brine dried over NaSO and concentrated under high vacuum to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 194.9 M H .

In a 100 mL round bottom flask a solution of EXAMPLE 1C 4.25 g 21.84 mmol 1 1 di tert butoxy N N dimethylmethanamine 28.8 mL 120 mmol and N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 15 mL was heated at 85 C. for 2 hours. The reaction was concentrated under high vacuum on a rotavap at 60 C. The residual solid was triturated with 5 mL ether filtered and dried to provide the title compound. MS ES r m e 249.8 M H .

In a 500 mL round bottom flask was charged 1 3 aminophenyl pyrrolidin 2 one 5 g 28.4 mmol 2 2 10 10 tetramethyl 6 thioxo 3 9 dioxa 5 7 diazaundecane 4 8 dione 9.80 g 35.5 mmol polystyrene carbodiimide Argonaut P N 800371 1.42 mmole g 30.0 g 42.6 mmol and CHCl 300 mL . The resulting suspension was stirred at room temperature for 14 hours. The reaction was filtered and the collected solid was washed with 2 30 mL CHCl. The filtrate was concentrated. The concentrate was purified by flash chromatography on a 140 g silica gel plug eluting with CHClthen 1 1 ethyl acetate hexanes to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 419.1 M H .

In a 500 mL round bottomed flask was charged EXAMPLE 1E 9.75 g 23.30 mmol and CHCl 35 mL . The resulting solution was treated with 4M hydrochloric acid in dioxane 69.9 mL 280 mmol . The reaction was stirred at ambient temperature for 60 hours. The suspension was treated with ether 150 mL and the mixture stirred for 2 hours. The ether supernatant was decanted from the solids. The solids were again triturated with ether 100 mL . The suspension was filtered and the solids were washed with ether and ethyl acetate. The solids were dried to constant weight in vacuo to provide a solid. In a 1 L Erlenmeyer flask the solids were suspended in 15 isopropanol CHCl 200 mL and 3 N NaOH 75 mL . The mixture was stirred 30 minutes and the layers were separated. The organic phase was dried over NaSOand concentrated to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 218.9 M H .

In a 4 mL vial a stirring solution of EXAMPLE 1D 0.062 g 0.25 mmol and N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 1.3 mL was treated with potassium carbonate 0.138 g 1 mmol and EXAMPLE 1F 0.136 g 0.625 mmol . The mixture was heated at 90 C. for 50 hours cooled to ambient temperature and treated with 14 mL water. The suspension was stirred 30 minutes and filtered. The collected solid was washed with water 1 mL and ether 0.5 mL and was dried to constant weight under vacuum. The crude solid was purified by flash chromatography on an Alltech 5 g silica gel column with a gradient of from 0 to 2 methanol in CHClto provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 405.0 M H .

In a 1 L round bottomed flask was charged 4 bromo 2 nitroaniline 25.69 g 118 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 60.1 g 237 mmol potassium acetate 58.1 g 592 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II PdCl dppf 0.199 g 0.272 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 237 ml . The mixture was heated at 100 C. for 18 hours. The mixture was cooled to ambient temperature filtered through a pad of silica gel and rinsed with ethyl acetate 500 mL . The filtrate was washed with brine 4 200 mL dried over MgSO and concentrated. The concentrate was treated with 300 mL hexanes and 150 mL methanol and was heated at 60 C. to get most of the slurry to dissolve. The reaction was allowed to cool to ambient temperature and was then allowed to stand in the freezer for 2 days. The suspension was filtered rinsed with cold hexanes and dried to constant weight to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 265.1 M H .

In a 250 mL stainless steel pressure bottle a solution of EXAMPLE 1H 5 g 18.93 mmol in ethyl acetate 50 mL was treated with 10 Pd on carbon 1.25 g 1.175 mmol . The suspension was stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere for 36 hours at 30 psi at ambient temperature. The mixture was filtered through a nylon membrane and concentrated to provide the title compound. MS APCI m e 235.19 M H .

In a 100 mL round bottom flask a solution of phenylacetic acid 1.894 g 13.91 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 21 mL was treated with 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 2.26 g 13.91 mmol at ambient temperature. The solution was heated at 50 C. for 30 minutes. EXAMPLE 1I 2.96 g 12.64 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred at 50 C. for 1 hour. Acetic acid 10.5 mL was added and the mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 15 hours. The mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was taken up in ethyl acetate water 150 mL 100 mL and the aqueous phase was saturated with solid NaCOwith stirring. The phases were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with 75 mL ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The concentrate was purified by flash chromatography on an AnaLogix SF40 150 g silica gel column using an AnaLogix IntelliFlash 280 system eluting with a gradient of from 15 to 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 335.2 M H .

A 2 mL Biotage microwave vial was charged with EXAMPLE 1G 0.039 g 0.096 mmol EXAMPLE 1J 0.035 g 0.106 mmol PdCl PPh 0.0038 g 0.005 mmol sodium carbonate 0.026 g 0.241 mmol 1 2 dimethoxyethane 0.6 mL and water 0.25 mL . The mixture was heated at 160 C. in a Biotage microwave reactor for 40 minutes. The reaction was partitioned between 10 methanol ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The concentrate was dissolved in 1.5 mL dimethyl sulfoxide filtered through a membrane filter and purified by reverse phase HPLC on a Phenomenex C18 column 3 15 cm 10 m particle size using a gradient of acetonitrile in 0.15 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid to provide the title compound as a trifluoroacetic acid salt. MS ESI m e 577.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 2.15 m 2 H 2.56 m 2 H 3.89 m 2 H 4.54 s 2 H 6.61 d 1 H 7.19 7.32 m 3 H 7.36 7.47 m 6 H 7.74 7.86 m 4 H 7.98 m 1 H 8.13 m 1 H 8.28 d 1 H 9.65 d 1 H .

In a 500 mL round bottom flask was charged EXAMPLE 1D 11.3 g 45.3 mmol guanidine carbonate 12.2 g 67.9 mmol and N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 140 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 92 C. for 72 hours. The reaction was allowed to cool to ambient temperature and was poured into 750 mL water. The resulting suspension was stirred 45 minutes and filtered. The collected solids were washed with water and air dried on the filter under vacuum overnight to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 246.0 M H .

To a 500 mL round bottom flask was charged EXAMPLE 2A 9.95 g 40.5 mmol and acetic acid 167 mL . The suspension was heated at 85 C. until a homogeneous solution formed. The reaction was allowed to cool to 65 C. and a solution of sodium nitrite 8.38 g 122 mmol in water 26 mL was added dropwise over 10 minutes. Upon complete addition the solution was stirred at 65 C. for 35 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and then further cooled in an ice bath at 0 C. The reaction was quenched to pH 6 7 with 3 N NaOH about 910 mL . The resulting cold suspension was filtered and the solid collected was washed with 3 400 mL water and 2 130 mL ether. The solid was dried in a vacuum oven at 70 C. to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 246.8 M H .

To a 500 mL round bottom flask was charged EXAMPLE 2B 9.1 g 36.9 mmol and POCl 86 mL 922 mmol . The suspension was heated to 80 C. for 5 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature and the suspension was added slowly to 500 mL of vigorously stirring water in an ice bath via an addition funnel at such a rate that the internal temperature did not exceed 20 C. Upon complete addition the suspension was stirred for 30 minutes and then was basified to pH 10 with 15 aqueous NaOH about 1280 mL added in a rapid dropwise manner at such a rate to keep the internal temperature below 20 C. Upon basification suspension was stirred 30 minutes and filtered. The collected solid was washed with 4 400 mL water and dried in a vacuum oven at 65 C. to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 264.8 M H .

In a 250 mL round bottom flask was charged 1 2 bromoethyl 3 nitrobenzene 10 g 43.5 mmol and acetonitrile 36 mL . The suspension was treated with triethylamine 18.1 mL 130 mmol and dimethylamine 2 M in tetrahydrofuran 65.2 mL 130 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 48 hours. The reaction was concentrated. The residual solid was partitioned between ethyl acetate 130 mL and 60 ml saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous layer was washed with ethyl acetate 75 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The concentrate was purified by flash chromatography on an 80 g silica gel column using an AnaLogix IntelliFlash 280 system eluting with a gradient of from 0 to 7 methanol in CHClto provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 195.1 M H .

In a 250 mL stainless steel pressure bottle EXAMPLE 2D 5.02 g 25.8 mmol in methanol 70 mL was treated with 5 Pd C wet 1.40 g 25.8 mmol and the suspension was shaken under 30 psi of hydrogen for 1.3 hours at ambient temperature. The mixture was filtered through a nylon membrane and the filtrate was concentrated to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 165.1 M H .

A 20 mL reaction vial equipped with a stir bar was charged with EXAMPLE 2C 0.67 g 2.53 mmol EXAMPLE 2E 0.46 g 2.80 mmol 4 M HCl in 1 4 dioxane 0.69 mL 2.77 mmol and 2 propanol 13 ml . The vessel was sealed and the mixture was heated on a thermal block at 120 C. for 3.5 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature and concentrated. The concentrate was dissolved in 60 mL 15 methanol CHCland washed with 15 mL saturated aqueous sodium carbonate and 15 mL brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The concentrate was purified by flash chromatography on a 20 g silica gel column eluting with methanol in CHClto provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 393.0 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 2F for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 565.3 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 2.93 s 6 H 3.04 m 2 H 3.40 m 2 H 4.53 s 2 H 6.58 d 1 H 7.01 d 1 H 7.22 m 1 H 7.32 m 1 H 7.37 7.46 m 5 H 7.59 m 1 H 7.69 7.83 m 5 H 7.98 m 1 H 8.24 d 1 H 9.71 d 1 H .

Into a 500 mL round bottomed flask was added 2 2 methoxyphenyl acetonitrile 50.45 g 343 mmol in ethanol 101 mL . HCl 10.42 mL 343 mmol gas was bubbled through the suspension for 15 minutes. The HCl bubbler was removed and the reaction was stirred at ambient temperature for 48 hours. The reaction was diluted with 200 mL ether and the suspension was filtered. The collected solid was washed with ether and dried under vacuum to provide the title compound as the hydrochloride salt. MS DCI m e 194.0 M H .

In a 1 L round bottomed flask a solution of EXAMPLE 1I 9.53 g 40.7 mmol in methanol 204 mL was treated with EXAMPLE 3A 10.29 g 44.8 mmol . The reaction was stirred at ambient temperature for 17 hours. The reaction was concentrated. The concentrate was purified by flash chromatography on a 90 g silica gel column eluting with 1 1 ethyl acetate hexanes to provide a solid. The solid was triturated with ethyl ether filtered and dried under vacuum to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 365.0 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 2F for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 3B for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 595.3 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 2.93 s 6 H 3.04 m 2 H 3.40 m 2 H 3.81 s 3 H 4.50 s 2 H 6.57 d 1 H 6.98 7.11 m 3 H 7.17 m 1 H 7.31 t 1 H 7.42 m 2 H 7.58 7.70 m 3 H 7.78 m 3 H 7.98 m 1 H 8.24 d 1 H 9.68 d 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1G substituting phenylguanidine carbonate for EXAMPLE 1F. MS ESI m e 321.9 M H 

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 4A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 494.1 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 4.47 s 2 H 6.60 d 1 H 6.96 m 1 H 7.15 m 1 H 7.26 m 2 H 7.32 7.46 m 6 H 7.57 m 1 H 7.71 m 3 H 7.80 m 2 H 7.94 m 1 H 8.34 d 1 H 9.52 d 1 H 9.79 s 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 2F for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 9A for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 599.3 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.40 d 1 H 9.61 m 2 H 8.28 s 1 H 7.73 m 2 H 7.63 s 1 H 7.58 d 2 H 7.40 7.51 m 4 H 7.33 m 2 H 7.19 t 1 H 7.05 t 1 H 6.85 d 1 H 6.57 m 1 H 4.35 s 2 H 2.67 m 2 H 2.48 m 2 H 2.17 s 6 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 2F for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 42B for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 633.3 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.39 bs 1 H 9.67 d 1 H 9.59 d 1 H 8.28 dd 1 H 7.76 m 2 H 7.66 m 2 H 7.58 m 2 H 7.50 m 4 H 7.42 t 1 H 7.18 t 1 H 7.06 t 1 H 6.84 d 1 H 6.56 dd 1 H 4.42 s 2 H 2.66 m 2 H 2.44 m 2 H 2.15 s 6 H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1C substituting 6 chloro imidazo 2 1 b thiazole for EXAMPLE 1B. MS ESI m e 200.8 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 2D substituted EXAMPLE 7A for EXAMPLE 1C. MS ESI m e 255.8 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1E substituting 3 2 dimethylamino ethyl aniline for 3 aminophenyl pyrrolidin 2 one. MS ESI m e 407.8 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1F substituting EXAMPLE 7C for EXAMPLE 1E. MS ESI m e 207.3 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1G substituting EXAMPLE 7B for EXAMPLE 1D and EXAMPLE 7D for EXAMPLE 1F. MS ESI m e 399.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 7E for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 571.3 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.44 12.39 d 1 H 9.55 s 1H 8.86 s 1H 8.18 s 1H 7.68 7.55 m 3H 7.47 d 1H 7.40 7.18 m 8H 6.85 d 1H 6.51 s 1H 4.21 s 2H 2.70 t 2H 2.50 t 2H 2.19 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 7E for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 3B for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 601.3 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.23 12.17 d 1 H 9.55 s 1H 8.86 s 1H 8.19 t 1H 7.63 7.55 m 3H 7.46 d 1H 7.36 d 1H 7.29 7.18 m 3H 7.02 d 1H 6.93 t 1H 6.85 d 1H 6.52 dd 1H 4.17 s 2 H 3.79 s 3H 2.69 t 2H 2.49 t 2H 2.19 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1J substituting 2 chlorophenyl acetic acid for phenyl acetic acid. MS ESI m e 369.0 M H 

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 7E for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 9A for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 605.3 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.44 12.39 d 1 H 9.55 d 1H 8.86 s 1H 8.19 dd 1H 7.63 7.40 m 6H 7.38 7.30 m 4H 7.20 t 1H 6.85 d 1H 6.52 dd 1H 4.35 s 2H 2.69 t 2H 2.49 t 2H 2.19 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 2F for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 1H for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 495.1 M H .

A 5 mL microwave tube was charged with EXAMPLE 10A 50 mg 0.101 mmol and ethanol 1 mL . The suspension was treated with 3 phenylpropanal 14.24 mg 0.106 mmol and sodium hydrosulfite 52.8 mg 0.303 mmol . The mixture was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave oven at 150 C. for 30 minutes. The reaction quenched with 5M aqueous ammonium hydroxide and diluted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was separated dried with sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified on a Shimadzu SIL 10 HPLC system using a Phenominex Gemini 10 micron C18 column 150 30 mm 110 Angstrom pore size and eluting with a gradient of 40 to 80 acetonitrile water with 0.1 ammonium hydroxide to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 579.3 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.35 d 1 H 9.63 m 2 H 8.28 m 1 H 7.75 d 1 H 7.62 m 3 H 7.48 m 2 H 7.41 d 1 H 7.29 m 4 H 7.19 m 2 H 7.05 m 1 H 6.85 d 1 H 6.56 dd 1 H 3.14 s 4 H 2.66 m 2 H 2.45 m 2 H 2.15 m 6 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 4A for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 27A for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 480.1 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 13.01 d 1 H 9.72 d 1 H 9.59 dd 1 H 8.31 dd 1 H 8.19 m 2 H 7.76 m 4 H 7.61 m 1 H 7.56 d 2 H 7.52 m 3 H 7.30 m 2 H 7.08 m 1 H 6.98 t 1 H 6.62 dd 1 H .

A 50 mL pressure bottle was charged with 4 2 4 amino 3 nitrophenyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridin 3 yl N 3 2 dimethylamino ethyl phenyl pyrimidin 2 amine 60 mg 0.121 mmol from EXAMPLE 10A and tetrahydrofuran 20 mL . The solution was treated with 50 palladium on carbon 30.0 mg 0.282 mmol and stirred for 24 hours at 30 psi at ambient temperature. The mixture was filtered through a nylon membrane and solvents were concentrated to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 465.1 M H .

A 50 ml round bottom flask was charged with EXAMPLE 12A 56 mg 0.121 mmol and anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 1.0 ml . The reaction mixture was treated with phenyl isothiocyanate 0.015 ml 0.127 mmol and N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 41.6 mg 0.217 mmol . The mixture was heated to 50 C. Anhydrous 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 1.0 ml was added to form a solution. The mixture was heated for 48 hours at 50 C. The mixture was cooled and diluted with dichloromethane and water. The layers were separated and organic layer washed with brine dried with sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue purified on a Shimadzu SIL 10 HPLC system using a Phenominex Gemini 10 micron C18 column 150 30 mm 110 Angstrom pore size and eluting with a gradient of 40 to 80 acetonitrile water with 0.1 ammonium hydroxide to produce the title compound. MS ESI m e 566.3 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 11.00 d 1 H 9.63 bs 2 H 9.49 s 1 H 8.29 m 1 H 7.75 m 3 H 7.64 s 1 H 7.60 d 1 H 7.55 s 1 H 7.48 m 1 H 7.34 m 4 H 7.20 m 1 H 7.05 m 1 H 6.94 t 1 H 6.85 d 1 H 6.61 bs 1 H 2.68 m 2 H 2.49 m 2 H 2.18 s 6 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 2F for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 27A for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 551.3 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 13.06 d 1 H 9.61 m 2 H 8.31 m 1 H 8.19 m 2 H 7.69 7.83 m 2 H 7.64 s 1 H 7.57 m 4 H 7.51 m 3 H 7.20 t 1 H 7.07 t 1 H 6.85 d 1 H 6.62 m 1 H 2.68 m 2 H 2.48 m 2 H 2.19 s 6 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 2 methoxy 4 morpholinoaniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 437.0 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 14A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 609.4 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.42 bds 1H 8.62 bds 1H 8.16 d 1H 7.92 s 1H 7.79 m 2H 7.68 dd 1H 7.57 t 1H 7.41 m 7H 7.08 m 1H 6.72 d 1H 6.50 dd 1H 6.41 d 1H 4.47 s 2H 3.82 s 3H 3.77 m 4H 3.14 m 4H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 2 methoxyaniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 351.0 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 15A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 524.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.64 s 1H 8.27 d 1H 7.93 s 1H 7.80 m 3H 7.69 d 1H 7.56 m 1H 7.43 7.35 m 5H 7.12 7.08 m 3H 6.90 m 1H 6.53 d 1H 4.48 s 2H 3.86 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 3 methylsulfonylaniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 399.0 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 16A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 572.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 10.21 s 1H 9.59 d 1H 8.39 d 1H 8.07 m 1H 7.92 s 1H 7.82 7.74 m 2H 7.68 7.52 m 4H 7.41 7.32 m 5H 7.17 m 2H 6.65 d 1H 4.44 s 2H 3.10 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 3 amino N N dimethylbenzenesulfonamide for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 429.0 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 17A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 601.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 10.17 s 1H 9.56 m 1H 8.38 d 1H 8.21 m 1H 8.08 m 1H 7.92 s 1H 7.81 7.51 m 5H 7.43 7.30 m 7H 6.66 d 1H 4.43 s 2H 2.60 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 4 methylsulfonylaniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 399.0 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 18A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 572.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 10.35 s 1H 9.52 d 1H 8.44 d 1H 7.96 m 3H 7.84 7.57 m 6H 7.43 7.33 m 5H 7.20 m 1H 6.75 d 1H 4.49 s 2H 3.15 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 5A for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 1H for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 424.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 12A substituting EXAMPLE 19A for EXAMPLE 10A. MS ESI m e 394.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 12B substituting EXAMPLE 19B for EXAMPLE 12A. MS ESI m e 495.1 M H H NMR 500 MHz Methanol D ppm 9.73 d 1 H 8.12 d 1 H 7.66 d 3 H 7.54 s 1 H 7.50 m 3 H 7.41 d 1 H 7.33 m 5 H 7.04 m 2 H 6.99 m 1 H 6.57 d 1 H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 14A for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 3B for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 639.3 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.41 m 1H 8.61 m 1H 8.18 d 1H 7.91 m 1H 7.81 7.70 m 3H 7.55 m 1H 7.41 m 2H 7.10 7.00 m 3H 6.71 d 1H 6.51 m 1H 6.42 d 1H 4.44 s 2H 3.82 s 3H 3.77 s 3H 3.74 m 4H 3.14 m 4H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1J substituting 2 6 difluorophenylacetic acid for phenylacetic acid. MS ESI m e 371.1 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 14A for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 21A for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 645.3 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.52 m 1H 8.78 m 1H 8.16 d 1H 7.85 7.80 m 2H 7.73 7.39 m 4H 7.22 7.15 m 3H 6.72 m 1H 6.53 m 1H 6.42 d 1H 4.44 s 2H 3.82 s 3H 3.75 m 4H 3.15 m 4H .

Into a 5 mL microwave tube was charged 4 fluoro 2 methoxy 1 nitrobenzene 1 g 0.584 mmol 1 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl piperazine 0.321 g 1.753 mmol triethylamine 0.244 mL 1.753 mmol and acetonitrile 1.948 mL . The reaction was heated in Biotage microwave reactor at 130 C. for 40 minutes. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the reaction purified by flash chromatography using a gradient 100 CHClto 1 1 CHCl methanol to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 335 M H .

EXAMPLE 22A 1.16 g 3.47 mmol and methanol 20 mL were added to 5 Pd C wet 0.232 g 2.180 mmol in a 250 mL stainless steel pressure bottle and stirred for 2 hours under Hat 30 psi at room temperature. The mixture was filtered through a nylon membrane and concentrated to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 305 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting EXAMPLE 22B for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 533 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 22C for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 705 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 12.39 d 1H 9.44 m 1H 8.39 s 1H 8.10 dd 1H 7.71 m 1H 7.60 m 1H 7.46 m 1H 7.33 7.41 m 5H 7.31 m 1H 7.25 m 1H 7.11 dt 1H 6.93 t 1H 6.67 d 1H 6.49 dd 1H 6.39 dd 1H 4.20 s 2H 3.80 s 3H 3.72 d 2H 2.68 9t 2H 2.31 m 5H 2.14 s 3H 1.85 m 2H 1.52 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1G substituting EXAMPLE 7B for EXAMPLE 1D and 1 phenyl guanidine for EXAMPLE 1F. MS ESI m e 325.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 23A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 500.1 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.46 bs 1 H 9.66 s 1H 8.89 s 1H 8.19 d 1H 7.73 d 2H 7.69 s 1H 7.57 d 1H 7.50 d 1H 7.40 7.20 m 8H 6.98 t 1H 6.51 d 1H 4.21 s 2 H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1G substituting EXAMPLE 7B for EXAMPLE 1D and 1 2 methoxyl phenyl phenyl guanidine for EXAMPLE 1F. MS ESI m e 357.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 24A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 528.2 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.45 bs 1 H 8.63 bs 1H 8.60 s 1H 8.13 d 1H 7.82 d 1H 7.67 s 1H 7.64 7.60 m 2H 7.57 7.54 m 2H 7.39 7.32 m 4H 7.25 t 1H 7.14 7.08 m 2H 6.94 t 1H 6.48 d 1H 4.21 s 2 H 3.84 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 5 methyl 1H pyrazol 3 amine for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 325.9 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 25A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 498.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.77 m 1H 8.18 d 1H 7.76 7.72 m 2H 7.58 d 1H 7.50 m 1H 7.43 7.33 m 5H 7.07 m 1H 6.46 d 1H 6.22 s 1H 4.24 s 2H 2.20 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 3 cyclopropyl 1H pyrazol 5 amine for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 351.9 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 26A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 524.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.95 m 1H 8.23 d 1H 8.12 m 1H 7.91 m 1H 7.81 7.58 m 4H 7.44 7.25 m 4H 7.15 m 1H 7.08 m 1H 6.19 s 1H 4.44 s 2H 1.86 m 1H 0.90 m 2H 0.63 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 3B substituting ethyl benzimidate hydrochloride for EXAMPLE 3A. MS ESI m e 321.0 M H 

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 2 methoxy 4 morpholinoaniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 437.1 M H 

A 2 mL Biotage microwave vial was charged with EXAMPLE 27B 0.02 g 0.046 mmol EXAMPLE 27A 0.017 g 0.054 mmol cesium fluoride 0.021 g 0.137 mmol 1 2 dimethoxyethane 0.5 mL and methanol 0.25 mL . The mixture was treated with tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 and the vessel was sealed under nitrogen. The reaction was heated at 155 C. for 35 minutes on a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature diluted with 5 mL water and extracted with 20 mL 10 methanol CHCl. The organic phase was concentrated and the residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC on a Phenomenex C18 column 3 15 cm 10 m particle size using a gradient of acetonitrile in 0.15 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid to provide the title compound as a trifluoroacetic acid salt. MS ESI m e 595.3 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 3.14 m 4 H 3.76 m 4 H 3.83 s 3 H 6.50 m 2 H 6.72 m 1 H 7.18 m 1 H 7.40 d 1 H 7.52 7.71 m 6 H 7.75 7.91 m 3 H 8.22 m 3 H 8.78 brs 1 H 9.53 brs 1 H .

EXAMPLE 4 89 mg 0.180 mmol and methanol 1 ml were added to 5 Pd C wet 178 mg 1.673 mmol in a 50 ml pressure bottle and stirred for 72 hours at 30 psi and 50 C. The mixture was filtered through a nylon membrane. The filtrate was concentrated to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 498 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 9.58 s 1H 8.29 d 1H 7.65 d 1H 7.28 7.36 m 5H 7.18 7.25 m 4H 6.91 m 1H 6.57 d 1H 4.14 s 2H 2.87 m 2H 1.92 9m 4H .

A 5 mL reaction vial equipped with a stir bar was charged with EXAMPLE 2C 0.1 g 0.377 mmol 2 methoxypyridin 3 amine 0.049 g 0.396 mmol 2 propanol 2 ml and 4 M HCl in 1 4 dioxane 0.133 mL 0.453 mmol . The vessel was sealed and the mixture was heated on a thermal block at 120 C. for 3.5 hours. The reaction became homogeneous and then formed a suspension over time. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature and the suspension was filtered. The solid collected was washed with 2 propanol 3 3 mL and dried. The solid was suspended in 80 mL 20 methanol CHCl washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine dried over NaSO and concentrated to provide the title compound. MS APCI m e 339.2 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 29A for EXAMPLE 27B and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 27A. MS ESI m e 511.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 4.44 s 2 H 6.16 m 1 H 6.69 d 1 H 7.02 m 1 H 7.18 m 1 H 7.31 7.43 m 6 H 7.57 m 1 H 7.66 m 1 H 7.77 m 2 H 7.91 s 1 H 8.16 d 1 H 8.41 d 1 H 8.51 s 1 H 9.46 d 1 H 11.98 d 1 H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 2A substituting EXAMPLE 7B for EXAMPLE 1D. ES r m e 251.8 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 2B substituting EXAMPLE 30A for EXAMPLE 2A. ESI m e 250.8 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 2C substituting EXAMPLE 30B for EXAMPLE 2B. ES r m e 271.1 M H .

A solution of 4 fluoro 2 methoxy 1 nitrobenzene 1.711 g 10 mmol N N dimethylpiperidin 4 amine 1.410 g 11.00 mmol and N ethyl N isopropylpropan 2 amine 3.48 mL 20.00 mmol in anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 25 mL was stirred at 70 C. overnight. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was mixed with water 60 mL adjusted to pH 12 then extracted with CHCl. The crude product was purified on a silica gel column eluting with 7.5 methanol in CHClsaturated with NHto provide the title compound. ESI m e 280.1 M H .

EXAMPLE 30D 2.7 g 9.67 mmol iron 2.70 g 48.3 mmol and ammonium chloride 0.517 g 9.67 mmol were mixed with absolute ethanol 20 mL and water 5 mL . The mixture was refluxed for 2 hours and filtered through a nylon membrane. The filtrate was concentrated to remove most of the ethanol. The aqueous solution was adjusted to pH 13 14 and extracted with CHCl. The organic solution was dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound. ESI m e 250.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 2F substituting EXAMPLE 30C for EXAMPLE 2C and EXAMPLE 30E for EXAMPLE 2E. ESI m e 484.4 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 30F for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 656.3 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.45 12.39 d 1 H 8.44 bs 1H 8.04 dd 1H 7.60 d 1H 7.40 7.30 m 8H 7.25 7.20 m 2H 6.67 s 1H 6.51 d 1H 6.38 dd 1H 4.20 s 2 H 4.11 4.08 m 1H 3.78 s 3H 3.72 d 2H 2.66 2.71 t 2H 2.21 s 6H 1.85 d 2H 1.55 1.50 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 30D substituting dimethylamine for N N dimethylpiperidin 4 amine. MS ESI m e 197.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 30E substituting EXAMPLE 31A for EXAMPLE 30D. MS ESI m e 167.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 2F substituting EXAMPLE 30C for EXAMPLE 2C and EXAMPLE 31B for EXAMPLE 2E. ESI m e 400.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 31C for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 573.2 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.45 12.39 d 1 H 8.40 s 1H 8.02 m 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.38 7.23 m 10H 6.44 d 1H 6.37 6.34 m 2H 4.21 s 2 H 3.78 s 3H 2.93 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 4 chloro 2 methoxyaniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 386 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 32A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 558 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 9.47 d 1H 8.80 s 1H 8.29 d 1H 7.98 s 1H 7.84 m 3H 7.72 dd 1H 7.64 m 1H 7.44 m 4H 7.38 m 2H 7.20 d 1H 7.18 m 1H 6.97 dd 1H 6.55 d 1H 4.53 s 2H 3.89 s 3H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 31C for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 9A for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 607.1 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.20 bs 1 H 8.58 bs 1H 8.03 d 1H 7.91 s 1H 7.79 d 1H 7.66 dd 1H 7.58 7.53 m 2H 7.22 7.38 m 4H 6.63 s 1H 6.50 d 1H 6.41 d 1H 4.63 s 2H 3.80 s 3H 3.00 s 6H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 31C for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 3B for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 603.2 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.04 bs 1 H 8.56 bs 1H 8.03 d 1H 7.93 s 1H 7.81 d 1H 7.70 d 1H 7.44 7.36 m 4H 7.08 d 1H 7.01 t 1H 6.62 s 1H 6.48 d 1H 6.39 d 1H 4.46 s 2H 3.88 s 3H 3.76 s 3H 2.99 s 6H .

A 5 mL reaction vial equipped with a stir bar was charged with EXAMPLE 2C 0.1 g 0.377 mmol 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 amine 0.039 g 0.404 mmol 2 propanol 2 ml and 4 M HCl in dioxane 0.094 mL 0.377 mmol . The vessel was sealed and the mixture was heated on a thermal block at 120 C. for 5 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature. The suspension was filtered and solid collected was washed with 2 propanol 1.5 mL and dried. The solid was suspended in 80 mL 20 methanol CHCl washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine dried over NaSO and concentrated. The concentrate was purified by flash chromatography on a 5 g silica gel column eluting with a gradient of methanol in CHClto provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 325.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 35A for EXAMPLE 27B and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 27A. MS ESI m e 498.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 3.82 s 3 H 4.53 s 2 H 6.55 m 1 H 7.31 m 1 H 7.42 m 5 H 7.56 s 1 H 7.74 7.88 m 5 H 7.98 s 1 H 8.25 d 1 H 9.61 brs 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 35A substituting 2 4 amino 1H pyrazol 1 yl ethanol hydrochloride WO2007 099326 for 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 amine. MS ESI m e 355.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 36A for EXAMPLE 27B. Purification of the crude reaction product was performed using reverse phase HPLC on a Phenomenex C18 column 3 15 cm using a gradient of acetonitrile in 0.1 aqueous ammonium hydroxide. MS ESI m e 514.1 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 3.87 t 2 H 4.17 t 2 H 6.58 m 1H 7.28 m 1 H 7.64 m 5 H 7.74 m 1 H 7.81 m 2 H 7.96 m 2 H 8.13 m 2 H 8.25 m 1 H 9.66 brs 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 36A for EXAMPLE 27B and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 27A. Purification of the crude reaction product was performed using reverse phase HPLC on a Phenomenex C18 column 3 15 cm using a gradient of acetonitrile in 0.1 aqueous ammonium hydroxide. MS ESI m e 528.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 3.70 m 2 H 4.06 m 2 H 4.20 s 2 H 4.84 m 1 H 6.45 m 1 H 7.07 m 1 H 7.20 7.42 m 7 H 7.49 m 3 H 7.73 m 2 H 7.90 m 1 H 8.23 m 1 H 9.56 m 1 H 12.36 brs 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 4 fluoroaniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 340.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 38A for EXAMPLE 27B. MS ESI m e 498.1 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 13.02 d 1 H 9.78 s 1 H 9.53 m 1 H 8.31 s 1 H 8.19 d 2 H 7.75 m 4 H 7.56 7.65 m 3 H 7.50 m 3 H 7.11 m 3 H 6.63 s 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 38A for EXAMPLE 27B and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 27A. MS ESI m e 512.1 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.50 m 1 H 9.76 s 1 H 9.56 d 1 H 8.26 d 1 H 7.73 m 4 H 7.55 d 1 H 7.48 t 1 H 7.36 m 5 H 7.25 t 1 H 7.12 t 2 H 7.07 t 1 H 6.56 d 1 H 4.20 s 2 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 2 4 difluoroaniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 357.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 40A for EXAMPLE 27B. MS ESI m e 516.1 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 13.05 m 1H 9.49 s 1H 9.34 s 1 H 8.21 m 3 H 7.79 s 1 H 7.75 d 1 H 7.70 m 2 H 7.58 m 2 H 7.45 7.53 m 3 H 7.39 m 1 H 7.11 m 1 H 7.02 t 1 H 6.57 d 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 40A for EXAMPLE 27B and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 27A. MS ESI m e 530.1 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.40 m 1 H 9.49 s 1 H 9.31 s 1 H 8.18 d 1 H 7.72 d 1 H 7.68 m 2 H 7.55 m 1 H 7.47 m 1 H 7.32 7.41 m 6 H 7.25 t 1 H 7.09 m 1 H 7.00 t 1 H 6.51 d 1 H 4.21 s 2 H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 2F substituting EXAMPLE 30C for EXAMPLE 2C and 2 pyrrolidin 1 y methyl aniline for EXAMPLE 2E. ESI m e 411.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1J substituting 2 trifluoromethylphenyl acetic acid for phenyl acetic acid. MS ESI m e 403.3 M H 

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 42A for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 42B for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 651.2 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.48 12.44 d 1 H 10.47 bs 1H 8.51 s 1H 8.21 dd 1H 8.16 d 1H 7.77 d 1H 7.67 t 1H 7.65 d 1H 7.55 7.45 m 4H 7.40 dd 1H 7.28 7.23 m 2H 6.97 t 1H 6.56 dd 1H 4.42 s 2 H 3.76 s 2H 2.50 s 4H 1.80 s 4H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 2 methoxy 5 methylsulfonyl aniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 429.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 43A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 602.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d ppm 9.53 m 1H 8.79 s 1H 8.56 m 1H 8.28 m 1H 7.73 d 1H 7.68 7.58 m 2H 7.48 m 2H 7.39 7.31 m 6H 7.05 m 1H 6.57 m 1H 4.20 s 2H 3.99 s 3H 3.13 s 3H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 35A for EXAMPLE 27B. MS ESI m e 484.1 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 3.84 s 3 H 6.59 m 1 H 7.37 m 1 H 7.59 s 1 H 7.63 7.93 m 8 H 8.02 m 1 H 8.13 m 2 H 8.30 d 1 H 9.67 brs 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting 2 methoxy 5 trifluoromethyl aniline for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 419.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 45A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 592.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d ppm 12.40 d 1H 9.51 m 1H 8.68 s 1H 8.44 m 1H 8.29 m 1H 7.73 d 1H 7.62 m 1H 7.51 7.25 m 9H 7.00 t 1H 6.58 m 1H 4.20 s 2H 3.97 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 2F substituting EXAMPLE 30C for EXAMPLE 2C and 4 dimethylamino methyl aniline for EXAMPLE 2E. ESI m e 384.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 46A for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 42B for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 625.2 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.48 12.43 d 1 H 9.63 d 1H 8.86 s 1H 8.19 dd 1H 7.76 d 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.65 d 2H 7.60 d 1H 7.55 7.45 m 4H 7.40 dd 1H 7.20 d 2H 6.50 dd 1H 4.42 s 2 H 3.44 s 2H 2.15 s 6H .

A 20 mL reaction vial equipped with a stir bar was charged with 4 fluoro 2 methoxy 1 nitrobenzene 0.5 g 2.92 mmol 1 amino 2 methylpropan 2 ol 0.313 g 3.51 mmol N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 7.3 mL and Hunig s base N N diisopropylethylamine 0.76 g 5.84 mmol . The vessel was sealed and the reaction was heated on a thermal block at 80 C. for 24 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature treated with water 40 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 60 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 25 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The concentrate was purified by flash chromatography on a 10 g silica gel column with 1 methanol CHClto provide the title compound.

EXAMPLE 47A 0.9 g 2.81 mmol in methanol 28 mL was added to 5 Pd C wet 0.180 g in a 250 mL stainless steel pressure bottle and the mixture was shaken under 30 psi of hydrogen at 50 C. for 10 minutes. The mixture was filtered through a nylon membrane and the filtrate was concentrated. The concentrate was purified by flash chromatography on a 10 g silica gel column eluting with a gradient of from 0 to 2 methanol CHClto provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 210.9 M H .

A 20 mL reaction vial equipped with a stir bar was charged with EXAMPLE 2C 0.36 g 1.358 mmol EXAMPLE 47B 80 0.375 g 1.426 mmol and Hunig s base 0.474 mL 2.72 mmol in N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 5 ml and was sealed. The reaction was heated on a thermal block at 98 C. for 44 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature diluted with water 25 mL and extracted with 1 1 ether ethyl acetate 2 80 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 50 mL and brine 2 50 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated. The concentrate was triturated with ethyl ether 6 mL and purified by flash chromatography on an 8 g silica gel column eluting with a gradient of from 0 to 1 methanol CHClto provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 439.0 M H 

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 47C for EXAMPLE 27B and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 27A. MS ESI m e 611.3 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 1.32 s 6 H 3.22 s 2 H 3.89 s 3 H 4.56 s 2 H 6.55 m 2 H 6.72 m 1 H 7.24 m 1 H 7.43 m 5 H 7.57 m 1 H 7.70 7.89 m 4 H 7.99 m 2 H 9.78 m 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 47A substituting 2 methylamino ethanol for 1 amino 2 methylpropan 2 ol. MS ESI m e 226.9 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2E substituting EXAMPLE 48A for EXAMPLE 2D. MS DCI m e 197.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting EXAMPLE 48B for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 425.0 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 48C for EXAMPLE 27B and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 27A. MS ESI m e 597.3 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 3.24 s 3 H 3.65 s 4 H 3.98 s 3 H 4.54 s 2 H 6.61 d 1 H 6.90 m 1 H 7.03 m 1 H 7.24 m 1 H 7.42 m 5 H 7.70 7.87 m 4 H 7.99 m 1 H 8.07 m 1 H 8.16 d 1 H 9.67 d 1 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 47A substituting tert butyl 2 aminoacetate for 1 amino 2 methylpropan 2 ol. MS ESI m e 282.9 M H 

EXAMPLE 49A 0.466 g 1.651 mmol in methanol 5 mL was added to 5 Pd C wet 0.093 g in a 20 mL pressure bottle and stirred under 60 psi of hydrogen at 50 C. for 1 hour. The mixture was filtered through a polypropylene membrane filter and the filtrate was concentrated to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 253.1 M H 

A 5 mL reaction vial equipped with a stir bar was charged with EXAMPLE 2C 0.225 g 0.849 mmol EXAMPLE 49B 0.236 g 0.934 mmol and Hunig s base 0.296 mL 1.697 mmol in N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 3.6 ml and was sealed. The reaction was heated on a thermal block at 95 C. for 60 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature diluted with 60 mL water and the resulting suspension was filtered. The solid collected was washed with water and dried under vacuum. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on a 10 g silica gel column eluting with a gradient of from 0 to 30 ethyl acetate hexanes to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 481.0 M H .

A 2 mL Biotage microwave reaction vial was charged with EXAMPLE 49C 0.06 g 0.125 mmol EXAMPLE 1J 0.045 g 0.133 mmol cesium fluoride 0.057 g 0.374 mmol 1 2 dimethoxyethane 1 mL and methanol 0.5 mL . The mixture was treated with tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 7.2 mg 6.24 mol and the vessel was sealed under nitrogen. The reaction was heated at 155 C. for 35 minutes on a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature treated with 0.187 mL 2N NaOH and stirred for 15 hours. The reaction was concentrated and purified by reverse phase HPLC on a Phenomenex C18 column 3 15 cm using a gradient of acetonitrile in 0.15 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid to provide the title compound as a trifluoroacetic acid salt. MS ESI m e 597.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 3.83 s 3 H 3.98 s 2 H 4.55 s 2 H 6.31 m 1 H 6.50 m 2 H 7.27 m 2 H 7.41 m 5 H 7.74 7.90 m 5 H 8.00 m 1 H 9.79 brs 1 H .

A 5 mL round bottom flask was charged with 4 bromomethyl 1 methoxy 2 nitrobenzene 0.6 g 2.44 mmol and acetonitrile 2 mL . The solution was treated with triethylamine 1 mL 7.32 mmol and 2 methylamino ethanol 0.585 mL 7.32 mmol and the reaction was stirred at ambient temperature for 16 hours. The reaction was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 241.1 M H .

To a 25 mL round bottom flask was charged EXAMPLE 50A 380 mg 1.58 mmol and ethanol 8 mL . The suspension was treated with iron 0.707 g 12.65 mmol followed by a solution of ammonium chloride 169 mg 3.16 mmol in water 1.3 mL . The mixture was heated at 90 C. with vigorous stirring for 2 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature and filtered. The filter pad was washed with methanol and then CHCl. The combined filtrates were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate 30 mL . The aqueous layer was back extracted with 2 60 mL 10 methanol CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 211.1 M H 

A 5 mL reaction vial equipped with a stir bar was charged with EXAMPLE 2C 0.13 g 0.49 mmol EXAMPLE 50B 0.113 g 0.539 mmol 2 propanol 2.6 ml and 4 M HCl in 1 4 dioxane 0.150 mL 0.6 mmol . The vessel was sealed and the reaction was heated on a thermal block at 120 C. for 20 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature diluted with 90 mL 10 methanol CHCl washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine dried over NaSO and concentrated. The concentrate was purified by flash chromatography on a 2 g silica gel column eluting with a gradient of from 0 to 4 methanol CHClto provide the title compound. ESI m e 439.0 M H 

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 50C for EXAMPLE 27B and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 27A. MS APCI m e 611.5 M H H NMR 300 MHz methanol d ppm 2.81 s 3 H 3.82 t 2 H 4.00 s 3 H 4.28 m 2 H 4.52 s 2 H 4.82 s 2 H 6.62 d 1 H 7.18 7.29 m 3 H 7.35 7.49 m 5 H 7.66 7.83 m 4 H 7.98 m 1 H 8.27 d 1 H 8.34 d 1 H 9.58 d 1 H .

A 250 mL round bottom flask with stir bar was charged with tert butyl 3 aminophenylcarbamate 5.315 g 25.5 mmol 2 dimethylamino acetic acid 2.94 g 28.5 mmol 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 5.17 g 27.0 mmol and 4 dimethylaminopyridine 0.09 g 0.737 mmol in dichloromethane 100 ml . The solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was washed into a separatory funnel with an additional 100 mL dichloromethane and washed with 100 mL saturated sodium bicarbonate. The organics were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 294.0 M H .

A 500 mL round bottom flask with stir bar containing EXAMPLE 51A 7.04 g 24.00 mmol dissolved in dichloromethane 160 ml was cooled in an ice bath. Trifluoroacetic acid 40 ml 519 mmol was added. After 5 minutes the ice bath was removed and the solution allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 1 hour the mixture was stripped down by rotary evaporation to minimize excess trifluoroacetic acid then shaken in a separatory funnel with 200 mL each dichloromethane and aqueous sodium carbonate. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 194.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting EXAMPLE 51B for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 422.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 51C for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 594.3 M H H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d ppm 9.73 s 1H 9.69 m 1H 9.60 s 1H 8.25 m 1H 8.05 m 1H 7.75 d 2H 7.66 7.18 m 9H 7.05 m 1H 6.54 m 1H 4.21 s 2H 3.05 s 2H 2.27 s 6H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 30F for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 42B for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 722.3 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.79 s 1 H 8.90 bs 1H 8.55 bs 1H 8.06 d 1H 7.88 s 1H 7.85 d 1H 7.78 d 1H 7.75 d 1H 7.60 7.55 m 3H 7.41 m 2H 6.74 s 1H 6.59 d 1H 6.42 d 1H 4.67 s 2 H 3.97 d 2H 3.88 s 3H 3.33 m 1H 2.80 s 6H 2.72 t 2H 2.11 m 2H 1.75 1.72 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 51A substituting 4 methoxy 3 nitroaniline for tert butyl 4 aminophenylcarbamate. MS DCI m e 254.1 M H .

EXAMPLE 53A 7.23 g 28.5 mmol and 5 Pd on charcoal 1.446 g 13.59 mmol in methanol 200 mL were stirred at ambient temperature for 2 hours under 30 psi of hydrogen gas then filtered concentrated and vacuum dried to give the title compound. MS DCI m e 224.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2F substituting EXAMPLE 53B for EXAMPLE 2E. MS ESI m e 452.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 53C for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 624.2 M H H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d ppm 9.54 s 1H 9.50 m 1H 8.55 s 1H 8.19 d 1H 8.10 m 1H 7.71 d 2H 7.46 m 2H 7.39 7.31 m 5H 7.05 d 1H 6.96 m 1H 6.48 d 1H 4.20 s 2H 3.83 s 3H 3.01 s 2H 2.24 s 6H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 30F for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 9A for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 690.2 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.79 s 1H 8.90 bs 1H 8.55 bs 1H 8.06 d 1H 7.88 s 1H 7.85 d 1H 7.78 d 1H 7.75 d 1H 7.60 7.55 m 3H 7.41 m 2H 6.74 s 1H 6.59 d 1H 6.42 d 1H 4.63 s 2H 3.97 3.90 m 2H 3.80 s 3H 3.33 m 1H 2.80 s 6H 2.74 t 2H 2.11 m 2H 1.75 1.72 m 2H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 30F for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 3B for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 686.3 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.92 s 1H 8.88 bs 1H 8.56 bs 1H 8.08 d 1H 7.92 s 1H 7.83 d 1H 7.72 d 1H 7.45 7.38 m 4H 7.10 d 1H 7.03 t 1H 6.73 s 1H 6.57 d 1H 6.40 d 1H 4.47 s 2H 3.97 3.90 m 2H 3.86 s 3H 3.80 s 3H 3.33 m 1H 2.81 s 6H 2.74 t 2H 2.10 m 2H 1.75 1.72 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1J substituting 2 methylphenyl acetic acid for phenyl acetic acid. MS ESI m e 349.3 M H 

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 30F for EXAMPLE 1G and EXAMPLE 56A for EXAMPLE 1J. MS ESI m e 670.3 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.92 s 1H 8.88 bs 1H 8.56 bs 1H 8.08 d 1H 7.92 s 1H 7.83 d 1H 7.72 d 1H 7.45 7.38 m 4H 7.10 d 1H 7.03 t 1H 6.73 s 1H 6.57 d 1H 6.40 d 1H 4.52 s 2 H 3.97 3.90 m 2H 3.80 s 3H 3.33 m 1H 2.81 s 6H 2.74 t 2H 2.33 s 3H 2.10 2.08 m 2H 1.75 1.72 m 2H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 46A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 557.2 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.93 s 1 H 9.70 bs 1H 8.88 s 1H 8.26 d 1H 7.95 s 1H 7.83 d 2H 7.82 d 1H 7.70 d 1H 7.54 d 1H 7.47 7.40 m 7H 7.35 t 1H 6.55 d 1H 4.52 s 2 H 4.22 s 2H 2.73 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 2F substituting EXAMPLE 30C for EXAMPLE 2C and 2 dimethylamino methyl aniline for EXAMPLE 2E. ESI m e 384.9 M H .

The trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1K substituting EXAMPLE 58A for EXAMPLE 1G. MS ESI m e 557.2 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.59 bs 1H 9.32 s 1H 8.36 bs 1H 8.14 d 1H 7.91 s 1H 7.81 d 1H 7.65 7.61 m 2H 7.57 d 1H 7.46 7.33 m 8H 6.49 d 1H 4.50 s 2 H 4.36 s 2H 2.73 s 6H .

A mixture of ethyl 3 amino pyrazole 4 carboxylate 6.4 g 40 mmole and diiodomethane 200 g was cooled to 10 C. Isoamyl nitrite 24 mL 180 mmole was added via a syringe over 30 minutes. The mixture was allowed to warm up to ambient temperature and then stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture was concentrated and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 200 mL and washed with 0.5 M aqueous sodium metasulfite solution 2 70 mL 1 N HCl and brine. The organic solution was dried with magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The crude product was purified on a silica gel column eluting with 15 ethyl acetate in hexane to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 266.9 M H 283.9 M NH .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 59A 1.3 g 5 mmole and diisopropyl ethyl amine 1.3 mL 7.5 mmole in dichloromethane 20 mL at ambient temperature was added 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl chloride 1.25 g 7.5 mmole dropwise. The solution was stirred overnight. Brine 20 mL was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The mixture was dried with magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column eluting with 25 ethyl acetate in hexane. The two regioisomers were isolated as a mixture. MS DCI m e 397 M H .

A solution of the EXAMPLE 59B 1.28 g 3.23 mmole mixture of two regioisomers and anhydrous pyridine 30 L in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 4 mL and toluene 12 mL was cooled to 45 C. using an acetonitrile and dry ice bath. Tebbe s reagent CH TiCHClAl CH 0.5 M in toluene 7.75 mL 3.38 mmole was added dropwise over 10 minutes. The mixture was stirred at 45 C. for 1 hour then allowed to warm up to room temperature and stirred for another hour. The mixture was cooled with an ice bath and methanol 10 mL was carefully added followed by 20 mL of 3 M aqueous HCl. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes and extracted with dichloromethane. The solution was dried with magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column eluting with 25 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the title compound. MS DCI m e 367 M H 384 M NH .

A solution of EXAMPLE 59C in N N dimethylformamide di tert butyl acetal 8 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 4 hours. The mixture was concentrated and the residue purified on a silica gel column eluting with 30 ethyl acetate first than 100 ethyl acetate to provide the title compound. MS DCI m e 422 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of EXAMPLE 1G substituting EXAMPLE 59D for EXAMPLE 1D. MS ESI m e 399.0 M H .

A Personal Chemistry microwave reaction tube was charged with EXAMPLE 59E 55 mg 0.095 mmole EXAMPLE 9A 42 m 0.11 mmole cesium fluoride 44 mg 0.29 mmole and 2 mL of dimethoxyethane methanol 3 2 mixture. The mixture was purged with argon and palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 12 mg 0.01 mmole was added. The sealed tube was stirred at 150 C. for 20 minutes on a Personal Chemistry microwave instrument. The mixture was quenched with brine 10 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 10 mL . The combined organic solution was dried with magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel eluting with 5 methanol in CHCl. The crude material was dissolved in methanol 3 mL and 4 N HCl in dioxane 1 mL and stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified on a reverse phase HPLC using TFA buffered water acetonitrile as the mobile phase to provide the trifluoroacetic acid salt of the title compound. MS ESI m e 561.2 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.47 s 1H 8.39 bs 1H 8.34 d 1H 7.84 7.83 m 2H 7.70 d 1H 7.62 d 1H 7.58 7.53 m 2H 7.45 7.43 m 2H 7.14 7.13 m 2H 7.80 6.79 m 2H 4.63 s 2H 3.68 t 2H 3.01 t 2H 2.05 m 2H .

A 500 mL flask was charged with the sodium hydride 0.584 g 14.61 mmol and tetrahydrofuran 100 mL . To the resulting suspension was added a solution of EXAMPLE 59A 3.11 g 11.69 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 50 mL dropwise over about 20 minutes and the reaction was stirred for 4 hours under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was cooled to 45 C. and a solution of iodoethane 3.77 mL 46.8 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml was added dropwise over 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was allowed to come to ambient temperature and stirring was continued for 42 hours. The reaction was diluted with brine 400 mL and extracted with ether 400 ml 2 200 mL . The combined organics were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude material was purified on the ISCO chromatography system on a silica gel cartridge 150 g eluting with a 0 10 25 and 50 ethyl acetate hexane step gradient to give the title compound. MS DCI m e 295 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 59C substituting EXAMPLE 60A for EXAMPLE 59B. MS DCI m e 265 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 59D substituting EXAMPLE 60B for EXAMPLE 59C. MS DCI m e 320 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described EXAMPLE 1E substituting 3 dimethylamino methyl aniline for 3 aminophenyl pyrrolidin 2 one. MS DCI m e 393 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1F substituting EXAMPLE 60D for EXAMPLE 1E. MS DCI m e 193 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1G substituting EXAMPLE 60C for EXAMPLE 1D and EXAMPLE 60E for EXAMPLE 1F. MS ESI m e 399.0 M H .

A 5 mL microwave vial was charged with EXAMPLE 60F 75 mg 0.167 mmol EXAMPLE 3B 91 mg 0.251 mmol cesium fluoride 76 mg 0.502 mmol and palladium tetrakis 19.33 mg 0.017 mmol . Under argon dimethoxyethane 3 mL and methanol 1.5 mL were added. The vial was sealed and heated in a Biotage Initiator 2 microwave reactor at 160 C. for 15 minutes. Additional palladium tetrakis 19.33 mg 0.017 mmol was added and the vial was purged with argon sealed and microwave heated at 160 C. for 15 minutes. Additional palladium tetrakis 19.33 mg 0.017 mmol added and the vial was purged with argon sealed and microwave heated at 160 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was filtered to remove the black solid and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel syringe cartridge 20 g eluted with 5 7 N methanolic ammonia in methylene chloride to give the title compound. MS ESI m e 559 M H ESI m e 557 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.11 d 1 H 9.40 s 1 H 8.30 s 1 H 8.24 t 1 H 7.70 s 1 H 7.36 7.62 m 3 H 7.21 7.31 m 2 H 7.16 d 1 H 6.83 7.07 m 3 H 6.76 d 1 H 6.54 dd 1 H 4.24 q 2 H 4.14 s 2 H 3.79 d 3 H 3.21 3.28 m 2 H 2.13 s 6 H 1.48 t 3 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 60G substituting EXAMPLE 9A for EXAMPLE 3B. MS ESI m e 563 M H ESI m e 561 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.32 d 1 H 9.40 d 1 H 8.30 s 1 H 8.25 t 1 H 7.69 s 1 H 7.23 7.63 m 8 H 6.93 t 1 H 6.75 d 1 H 6.56 dd 1 H 4.32 s 2 H 4.25 q 2 H 3.25 d 2 H 2.13 s 6 H 1.48 t 3 H .

Into a 100 mL round bottomed flask was charged EXAMPLE 1I 0.258 g 1.102 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 11.02 mL . Phenyl isothiocyanate 0.138 mL 1.157 mmol and 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 0.380 g 1.984 mmol were added. The mixture was heated to 50 C. overnight then cooled to room temperature. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound. MS ESI m e 336 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 60G substituting EXAMPLE 62A for EXAMPLE 3B. MS ESI m e 530 M H ESI m e 528 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 11.03 d 1 H 9.52 s 1 H 9.32 9.47 m 1 H 8.29 s 1 H 8.25 s 1 H 7.70 7.81 m 3 H 7.46 d 1 H 7.42 s 1 H 7.26 7.37 m 3 H 7.13 d 1 H 7.04 t 1 H 6.93 t 1 H 6.79 d 1 H 6.58 s 1 H 4.25 q 2 H 3.27 s 2 H 2.14 s 6 H 1.48 t 3 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 60G substituting EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 3B. MS ESI m e 529 M H ESI m e 527 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.28 s 1 H 9.38 s 1 H 8.30 s 1 H 8.24 d 1 H 7.69 s 1 H 7.19 7.65 m 9 H 6.92 t 1 H 6.74 d 1 H 6.54 d 1 H 4.24 q 2 H 4.18 s 2 H 3.25 s 2 H 2.13 s 6 H 1.48 t 3 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1G substituting EXAMPLE 60C for EXAMPLE 1D and 1 2 methoxyphenyl guanidine hydrochloride for EXAMPLE 1F. MS ESI m e 422 M H ESI m e 420 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 60G substituting EXAMPLE 64A for EXAMPLE 60F and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 3B. MS ESI m e 502 M H ESI m e 500 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.30 s 1 H 8.38 s 1 H 8.26 d 1 H 7.82 d 1 H 7.74 s 1 H 7.40 7.65 m 2 H 7.19 7.38 m 6 H 6.95 d 1 H 6.80 t 1 H 6.67 d 1 H 6.44 t 1 H 4.24 q 2 H 4.18 s 2 H 3.83 s 3 H 1.47 t 3 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 60G substituting EXAMPLE 64A for EXAMPLE 60F. MS ESI m e 532 M H ESI m e 530 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.10 d 1 H 8.37 s 1 H 8.24 8.29 m 1 H 7.82 7.90 m 1 H 7.74 s 1 H 7.38 7.62 m 2 H 7.20 7.30 m 2 H 7.15 dd 1 H 6.99 dd 2 H 6.79 6.92 m 2 H 6.66 t 1 H 6.50 t 1 H 4.24 q 2 H 4.14 s 2 H 3.84 s 3 H 3.79 s 3 H 1.47 t 3 H .

A 250 mL flask was charged with the EXAMPLE 30E 2.0 g 8.02 mmol 2 2 10 10 tetramethyl 6 thioxo 3 9 dioxa 5 7 diazaundecane 4 8 dione 2.66 g 9.62 mmol PS carbodiimide 1.42 mmole g 8.47 g 12.03 mmole 1.5 eq and dichloromethane 75 mL . The mixture was stirred overnight. The solvent was filtered off and the residue was shaken with methylene chloride 6 100 mL and filtered. The combined filtrates were concentrated and purified on the ISCO chromatography system using a silica gel cartridge 150 g eluted with a 1 2.5 5 10 7N methanolic ammonia in methylene chloride step gradient to afford the Boc protected product as a white solid. The solid was dissolved in a mixture of anhydrous methylene chloride 30 ml and trifluoroacetic acid 30 ml and stirred under nitrogen for 2 hours. The reaction was concentrated at 

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1G substituting EXAMPLE 60C for EXAMPLE 1D and EXAMPLE 66A for EXAMPLE 1F. MS ESI m e 548 M H ESI m e 546 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 60G substituting EXAMPLE 66B for EXAMPLE 60F and EXAMPLE 1J for EXAMPLE 3B. MS ESI m e 628 M H ESI m e 626 M H H NMR 300 1H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.34 d 1 H 8.32 s 1 H 8.17 dd 1 H 7.39 7.64 m 3 H 7.20 7.38 m 7 H 6.51 6.61 m 2 H 6.07 s 1 H 4.15 4.30 m 4 H 3.79 s 3 H 3.57 d 2 H 2.52 2.63 m 2 H 2.09 2.24 m 7 H 1.81 s 2 H 1.38 1.56 m 5 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 60G substituting EXAMPLE 66B for EXAMPLE 60F and EXAMPLE 9A for EXAMPLE 3B. MS ESI m e 662 M H ESI m e 660 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.33 s 1 H 8.32 s 1 H 8.19 d 1 H 7.40 7.63 m 5 H 7.27 7.40 m 3 H 7.24 dd 1 H 6.57 d 2 H 6.00 d 1 H 4.32 s 2 H 4.23 q 2 H 3.79 s 3 H 3.56 d 2 H 2.52 2.61 m 2 H 2.09 2.24 m 7 H 1.81 s 2 H 1.38 1.56 m 5 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 60G substituting EXAMPLE 66B for EXAMPLE 60F. MS ESI m e 658 M H ESI m e 656 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.14 d 1 H 8.32 s 1 H 8.18 d 1 H 7.38 7.63 m 4 H 7.18 7.29 m 2 H 7.14 d 1 H 7.01 d 1 H 6.88 t 1 H 6.57 d 2 H 6.03 d 1 H 4.23 q 2 H 4.13 s 2 H 3.79 s 6 H 3.56 d 2 H 2.52 2.62 m 2 H 2.10 2.23 m 7 H 1.83 d 2 H 1.39 1.55 m 5 H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 60G substituting EXAMPLE 66B for EXAMPLE 60F and EXAMPLE 27A for EXAMPLE 3B. MS ESI m e 614 M H ESI m e 612 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.98 s 1 H 8.38 s 1 H 8.28 d 1 H 8.22 d 2 H 7.41 7.71 m 6 H 7.22 d 1 H 7.08 s 1 H 6.81 d 1 H 6.45 d 1 H 5.39 s 1 H 4.25 q 2 H 3.72 3.80 m 3 H 3.22 3.32 m 2 H 2.21 2.36 m 2 H 2.09 s 6 H 1.87 s 1 H 1.43 1.58 m 5 H 1.23 s 2 H .

It is understood that the foregoing detailed description and accompanying examples are merely illustrative and are not to be taken as limitations upon the scope of the invention which is defined solely by the appended claims and their equivalents. Various changes and modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications including without limitation those relating to the chemical structures substituents derivatives intermediates syntheses formulations and or methods of use of the invention may be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

