---

title: Managing a reverse link transmission power level setpoint during periods of inactivity on the reverse link in a wireless communications system
abstract: Embodiments include managing a reverse link transmission power level setpoint during periods of data inactivity on a reverse link traffic channel in a wireless communications system. At an access terminal, upon detecting reverse link data inactivity above a time threshold, a message is generated and transmitted on the reverse link traffic channel at a power level sufficient for the access network to measure transmission statistics to determine whether to adjust the current transmission power level setpoint of the access terminal. Alternatively, the access terminal notifies the access network of an upcoming reverse link data inactivity period, and then lowers its transmission power level setpoint to reduce power consumption during the reverse link data inactivity period. Then, upon detection of a potential reverse link data transmission, the access terminal may then send one or more messages to prompt the access network to modify the access terminal's transmission power level setpoint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09066301&OS=09066301&RS=09066301
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09066301
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 167 707 entitled MANAGING A REVERSE LINK TRANSMISSION POWER LEVEL SETPOINT DURING PERIODS OF INACTIVITY ON THE REVERSE LINK IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Apr. 8 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention are managing a reverse link transmission power level setpoint during periods of inactivity on the reverse link in a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments include managing a reverse link transmission power level setpoint during periods of data inactivity on a reverse link traffic channel in a wireless communications system. At an access terminal upon detecting reverse link data inactivity above a time threshold a message is generated and transmitted on the reverse link traffic channel at a power level sufficient for the access network to measure transmission statistics to determine whether to adjust the current transmission power level setpoint of the access terminal. Alternatively the access terminal notifies the access network of an upcoming reverse link data inactivity period and then lowers its transmission power level setpoint to reduce power consumption during the reverse link data inactivity period. Then upon detection of a potential reverse link data transmission the access terminal may then send one or more messages to prompt the access network to modify the access terminal s transmission power level setpoint.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In an example AT may be a current floor holder e.g. call initiator for a push to talk PTT session. The application server forwards the data from AT to one or more ATs . . . N that have registered to the call e.g. a group call such as a PTT session or transport session with AT . For example N is greater than 2 in a group call and is equal to 2 in a unicast call e.g. a call only between AT and AT . Thus in the application server forwards the data to the RAN which transmits the data in one or more sectors to ATs . . . N. ATs . . . N monitor the data transmitted by the RAN for the communication session .

During the communication session the outer loop power control algorithm at the RAN measures transmission statistics of the data transmissions of AT from as well as any other packet transmissions from AT . For example the RAN can measure a packet error rate PER of AT s transmissions over a given time interval e.g. 1 second or apply moving averaging or other time series algorithms. In another example the RAN can also measure a signal to noise ratio SINR of AT s transmissions as received at the RAN over another given time interval e.g. 3 or more seconds . Other transmission statistics such as power loss can also be measured. The inner loop power control works at a fast rate. For example the BSC at the RAN sets a target SINR that the AT should achieve. If the AT s SINR at the BTS is lower than the target SINR the RAN instructs the BSC to increase its transmit power. If the AT s SINR at the BTS is higher than the target SINR the RAN instructs the BSC to decrease its transmit power. The outer loop power control works at a slower rate and is based on the link conditions. In order to determine the target SINR for a given AT the BSC measures the PER experienced by the AT over the duration of the call. If the PER is lower than the target PER for the AT or RLP flow the BSC will lower the target SINR. If the PER is higher than the target PER for the AT or RLP flow the BSC will increase the target SINR. At the initialization of the connection it is typical for the network to assume a conservative i.e. higher than average SINR as the RAN has not been able to track the AT s channel conditions. However after the connection is established the AT s target SINR will converge to a value that ensures that the target PER is met.

Based on the measured transmission statistics for AT in the RAN determines whether to command AT to increase or decrease its transmission power level and transmits an appropriate power level adjustment message . The determination as to whether to increase or decrease AT s transmission power level setpoint in can be based on a number of factors. For example one or more of AT s transmission statistics can be used to determine whether to adjust AT s transmission power level. For a given AT the measured transmission statistic can be flow specific or AT specific. In case the measured transmission statistic is flow specific the statistic can be either on a per IP flow RLP flow or a MAC flow basis. As delay sensitive flows such as VoIP flows may require a more stringent PER requirement the outer loop power control can establish the setpoint by taking into consideration the target PER for the associated flow when power controlling ATs. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art if the measured transmission statistic is flow specific in an example the corresponding power level adjustment message in is configured to adjust a setpoint for that specific flow only and not necessarily other flows carried by AT .

In an example assume that a target PER for AT is 5 . In this example if the measurement of indicates that AT s PER is less than 5 by a threshold amount then the RAN determines to command AT to decrease its transmission power level setpoint. In an alternative example if the measurement of indicates that AT s PER is greater than 5 by a threshold amount then the RAN determines to command AT to increase its transmission power level setpoint. It will be appreciated that different types of applications can be associated with different target PERs. For example a phone call can have a relatively low target PER because packet losses result in a degradation in call quality. In another example a data transport session can have a relatively high target PER because an average packet transfer rate has a higher priority than maintaining a high quality connection at all times throughout the session. The target PER can be used in conjunction with other parameters in the determination of . For example if the PER of all ATs in AT s sector is measured at high levels the problem may be that the combined transmission of all the ATs in AT s sector is causing too much interference. In this case AT may be commanded to lower its transmission power level setpoint despite its PER being above the target PER. In any case the determination of depends upon AT s having sent recent data transmissions from which the transmission statistics can be measured.

Returning to if the RAN determines increase AT s transmission power level setpoint the RAN transmits one or more power level adjustment messages to AT having a power control bit PCB set to instruct AT to increase its transmission power level setpoint and the process then returns to and the RAN continues to monitor AT s transmission statistics. Otherwise if the RAN determines to adjust AT s transmission power level setpoint the RAN transmits one or more power level adjustment messages to AT having a power control bit PCB set to instruct AT to either decrease its transmission power level setpoint and the process then returns to and the RAN continues to monitor AT s transmission statistics. In and may repeat at a relatively quick pace. For example approximately fifty 50 power level adjustment messages can be transmitted per second based on an on going time averaged PER. In other examples if the RAN operates in accordance with EV DO Rev. A protocols then 150 power level adjustment messages may be sent per second and if the RAN operates in accordance with Rel. 0 then 600 power level adjustment messages may be sent per second. In a further example the PCB can be a single bit indicator that is set to a first logic level e.g. 1 to instruct AT to increase its transmission power level by a fixed amount and a second logic level e.g. 0 to instruct AT to decrease its transmission power level by the fixed amount. Upon receiving the power level adjustment message AT updates e.g. decreases or increases its transmission power level setpoint by a given amount or step size based on the logic level of the PCB.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art illustrates an example of reverse link outer loop power control ROLPC . The reverse link transmission power is controlled based at least in part on the transmission statistics as measured by the RAN . However it is more difficult to maintain an AT s transmission power level setpoint at an appropriate level when the AT is not actively transmitting data because recent transmission statistics are not available. For example if the communication session in is a unicast group session e.g. a group call supported by IP unicasting instead of IP multicasting where AT is the current floor holder and ATs . . . N are target ATs the target ATs monitor the session but do not necessarily transmit data e.g. at least for the group session although one or more of ATs . . . N may transmit data related to other applications . Thus if ATs . . . N are not transmitting data over a traffic channel TCH for a given period of time referred to as a data inactivity period or reverse link data transmission inactivity period over the TCH in this case then the RAN cannot measure transmission statistics for ATs . . . N i.e. because no data transmissions are present from ATs . . . N . If one or more of ATs . . . N moves to a different location during the data inactivity period or the channel conditions for ATs . . . N change for some other reason the transmission power level setpoint for the one or more ATs before the data inactivity period may be either too high or too low at a next point in time when the one or more ATs wishes to begin transmitting data. The difference between an AT s actual transmission power level setpoint and the AT s ideal transmission power level setpoint that occurs during the data inactivity period can be referred to as transmission power level setpoint drift. Based on simulation results it has been observed that avoiding the setpoint drift problem can lower the Ec p Nt thereby reducing significant amount of signal interference and increasing network capacity.

ATs that have a traffic channel TCH continue to transmit pilot signals which are not data transmissions on a reverse link pilot channel during reverse link data inactivity periods. At a given interval each AT transmits a pilot signal which has a transmission power level that is offset by a given factor from a transmission power level at which data is transmitted. Generally the transmission power level for the pilot signal is lower than the transmission power level for data. The pilot signal however is not sufficient for the RAN to measure transmission statistics that are useable for adjusting the AT s transmission power level setpoint during the data transmission inactivity period. Thus the pilot signal alone is insufficient to avoid the problem of transmission power level setpoint drift. Also if the transmission power level setpoint is increased during the period of data transmission inactivity an overly strong pilot signal is transmitted from one or more ATs which can unnecessarily consume power at the one or more ATs and increase signal interference.

Referring to after of assume that the communication session continues and the RAN continues to transmit data to ATs . . . N for the communication session e.g. which is forwarded from the application server from a current floor holder B. For convenience of explanation assume that AT remains the floor holder throughout the process of . ATs . . . N continue to monitor the data transmitted by the RAN for the communication session B.

In B the RAN determines whether a period of reverse link inactivity data inactivity period or reverse link data transmission inactivity period for one or more of ATs . . . N exceeds a threshold. For example if AT is not engaged in any other communication sessions with the RAN such that AT has ceased all data transmissions while monitoring the communication session e.g. although AT still sends a periodic pilot signal then AT s data inactivity period may exceed the threshold after a given amount of time. If the RAN determines that the data inactivity period for ATs . . . N does not exceed the threshold the process returns to B and the RAN continues to transmit data to AT s . . . N for the communication session. Otherwise if the RAN determines that the data inactivity period for at least one of ATs . . . N exceeds the threshold then the RAN transmits one or more power level adjustment messages B to each inactive AT among ATs . . . N that has a PCB set to instruct the inactive AT s to increase their reverse link transmission power level setpoint. Each time the RAN transmits a power level adjustment message to any of ATs . . . N the AT s among ATs . . . N receiving the power level adjustment message adjusts their transmission power level setpoint accordingly B. It will be appreciated that unlike the power level adjustment message from of the power level adjustment message transmitted by the RAN in is transmitted in response to reverse link data inactivity by ATs . . . N and not in response to measured transmission statistics. Thus the power level adjustment message in B does not necessarily result in a convergence of transmission power level setpoint s at ATs . . . N to an appropriate level.

While not explicitly shown in steps B and B can repeat a number of times if the data inactivity period for one or more of ATs . . . N is sufficiently long with a timer at the RAN being reset each time the data inactivity period exceeds the threshold until a next time at which the timer again exceeds the threshold without reverse link data transmission activity from one or more of ATs . . . N and so on. Thus if AT is inactive for a very long period of time while monitoring the communication session for example AT s transmission power level setpoint can be maxed out e.g. augmented to a level from which further increases are not possible such that AT transmits at a highest possible transmission power level the next time AT wishes to transmit a reverse link data message to the RAN .

Accordingly assume that each of ATs . . . N are silent or inactive for a long period of time e.g. because AT has remained the floor holder for a long period of time that the RAN has been unable to measure transmission statistics for ATs . . . N and that the RAN transmitted a number of power level adjustment messages to each of ATs . . . N at least until each of ATs . . . N has maxed out their respective reverse link transmission power level setpoints e.g. which are used to establish transmission power levels for both data transmissions and the pilot signal . While not shown explicitly within this means that AT is transmitted its reverse link pilot signals at a relatively high transmission power level which consumes power at AT and increases interference in AT s sector. Next assume that each of ATs . . . N determine whether to begin transmitting data in B. If ATs . . . N determine not to transmit data in B the process returns to B and ATs . . . N continue to monitor the communication session. Otherwise if one or more of ATs . . . N determine to transmit data in B e.g. a floor request for the communication session where many of ATs . . . N request the floor at approximately the same time then each of ATs . . . N that have determined to transmit transmits a message B at a transmission power level corresponding to its current transmission power level set point. As noted above it is assumed in this example that each of ATs . . . N has maxed out their transmission power level setpoints e.g. for the pilot signal which is also used to determine the transmission power level for data transmissions due to the long data inactivity period. Thus each of ATs . . . N that have determined to transmit in B transmits the data message in B at a relatively high e.g. highest possible transmission power level for data from the respective ATs.

As will be appreciated the data message transmission of B ends the data inactivity period for the transmitting ATs. Accordingly in B the RAN measures transmission statistics e.g. PER SINR etc. for each AT that transmitted in B and transmits a power level adjustment message to the transmitting ATs B. After the RAN determines to adjust the transmission power level setpoint of at least one of the transmitting ATs one or more power level adjustment messages are sent to the selected ATs in B before the process returns B. The one or more ATs then adjust their transmission power level setpoints based on the received power level adjustment message s B.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art if a high number of ATs transmit at the same time in a given sector at a very high transmission power level interference in the given sector can increase dramatically. Thus for example assume that the communication session in is a group session and AT releases the floor. Each of ATs . . . N receive the floor release message and potentially each of ATs . . . N can determine to transmit at the same time to request the floor. Thus a high number of ATs in this case would be transmitting at a very high transmission power level e.g. if the data inactivity period was relatively long prompting one or more increases to transmission power level setpoints of the ATs and at substantially the same time. If many of these ATs are co located in the same sector then system performance in that sector can degrade significantly. Also it will be appreciated that even if only a few ATs transmit at a transmission power level that is higher than necessary system performance in one or more sectors can degrade to a lesser degree. Also during the data transmission inactivity period if ATs are instructed over time to max out their transmission power level setpoints the ATs can transmit their respective pilot signals on the reverse link at very high levels which can both consume a high amount of power at the ATs and also increase interference in one or more sectors.

In order to mitigate the high powered transmission scenarios discussed above another conventional reverse link power control process as described below with respect to can be implemented. As will be described with respect to the RAN refrains from sending any power level adjustment messages to ATs . . . N irrespective of the length of their respective data inactivity periods.

Referring to after of assume that the communication session continues and the RAN continues to transmit data to ATs . . . N for the communication session e.g. which is forwarded from the application server from a current floor holder C. For convenience of explanation assume that AT remains the floor holder throughout the process of . ATs . . . N continue to monitor the data transmitted by the RAN for the communication session C.

In C unlike the RAN does not send any power level adjustment messages to ATs . . . N during their respective data inactivity periods. Next assume that each of ATs . . . N are silent or inactive for a long period of time e.g. because AT has remained the floor holder for a long period of time such that the RAN has been unable to measure transmission statistics for ATs . . . N and has also not transmitted any power level adjustment messages to each of ATs . . . N. Next assume that each of ATs . . . N determine whether to begin transmitting data in C. If ATs . . . N determine not to transmit data in C the process returns to C and ATs . . . N continue to monitor the communication session. Otherwise if one or more of ATs . . . N determine to transmit data in C then each of ATs . . . N that have determined to transmit transmits a message C at a transmission power level corresponding to the ATs current transmission power level setpoint s which in are established prior to the data inactivity period.

The message transmission of C ends the data inactivity period for the transmitting ATs. Accordingly in C the RAN measures transmission statistics e.g. PER SINR etc. for each AT that transmitted in C determines to increase or decrease the transmission power level setpoint of at least one of the transmitting ATs and transmits one or more power level adjustment messages are to the ATs in C before the process returns C. One or more ATs then adjust their transmission power level setpoints based on the received power level adjustment message s C.

It will be appreciated that the channel conditions for ATs . . . N may change substantially during their respective data inactivity periods. For example one or more of ATs . . . N may move closer to a serving base station which decreases their ideal or appropriate transmission power level setpoint e.g. for maintaining a target PER while one or more other of ATs . . . N may move further away from a serving base station or into a high interference area which increases their ideal or appropriate transmission power level setpoint. Irrespective of these changes ATs . . . N transmit at an older i.e. less current due to the data inactivity period transmission power level in C. Thus some ATs may be transmitting data at too high of a transmission power level in C which increases interference and requires correction while other ATs may be transmitting data at too low of a transmission power level in C which decreases the transmission success rate of those ATs. Thus while the problem of transmitting an unnecessarily high pilot signal during the data inactivity period in is mitigated with respect to i.e. because the transmission power level setpoint is not simply maxed out during a long period of data inactivity in an eventual data transmission after the data inactivity period C is not necessarily transmitted at an appropriate transmission power level.

Accordingly it will be appreciated that neither the process of i.e. gradually increasing transmission power level setpoints for inactive ATs nor the process of i.e. refraining from adjusting transmission power level setpoints for inactive ATs until after a next transmission can guarantee that an initial transmission after the data inactivity period approximates an appropriate level. In particular can result in transmission power level setpoints that are too high for one or more inactive ATs and can result in transmission power level setpoints that are either too high or too low for one or more inactive ATs. Embodiments of the invention which will now be described in greater detail are directed to managing a transmission power level setpoint for one or more inactive ATs at least prior to an initial transmission subsequent to a data inactivity period.

Referring to in each of ATs . . . N resets or starts a timer having a given expiration period after a most recent data or message transmission expected to be sufficient for the RAN to measure transmission statistics e.g. PER over a given period SINR over a given period etc. for the respective AT. In an example the given expiration period can be based on how far apart the RAN can receive transmissions from a given AT while also maintaining relatively accurate and up to date AT transmission statistics e.g. every 400 ms for EV DO systems . Thus the given expiration period can be based on a tradeoff between maintaining up to date AT transmission statistics e.g. PER SINR etc. and reducing interference in the given AT s sector by refraining from data transmission. In an example the timer of at a previous floor holder among ATs . . . N can be started or reset when the previous floor holder releases the floor for the communication session after which the floor is granted to AT . In another example the timer of can be started or reset after a last reverse link data transmission at each of ATs . . . N before joining the communication session if the communication session is initiated by AT . As used herein only a transmission referred to as a data transmission functions to reset the timer where data transmissions are defined as transmissions from which the RAN can measure transmission statistics that are useable in a selection between whether to increase or decrease a transmission power level setpoint at the transmitting AT. Thus a pilot signal would not qualify as a data transmission unless the pilot signal were used to adjust the transmission power level setpoint at the AT which is not the case in most systems. Thus the starting point of the timer is indicative of the most recent data transmission from an AT for which transmission statistics can be measured by the RAN .

Returning to the RAN continues to transmit data to ATs . . . N for the communication session e.g. which are forwarded from the application server from current floor holder AT and ATs . . . N continue to monitor the communication session e.g. by tuning to a downlink BCH upon which media for the communication session is carried if the communication session is a group session supported by IP multicasting protocols or by tuning to a downlink TCH if the communication session is a group session supported by IP unicasting protocols . Next each of ATs . . . N determines whether their timer has expired . While not shown explicitly in each time one or more of ATs . . . N transmit a data message expected to be sufficient for the RAN to measure transmission statistics for the AT the timer is reset for the transmitting AT. Thus an expiration of the timer which occurs when the timer exceeds the given expiration period e.g. which may be pre negotiated between the RAN and AT implies that a given AT has been inactive in terms of data transmissions for at least an amount of time equal to the given expiration period. If the determination of indicates that the timer has not expired the process returns to and the given AT continues to monitor the communication session. Otherwise if the determination of indicates that the timer has expired ATs . . . N e.g. for the sake of convenience this section is described as if each of ATs . . . N undergo timer expiration which is not necessarily the case generate a low load message sufficient for the RAN to measure transmission statistics e.g. PER SINR etc. and transmit the low load message to the RAN . For example the low load message may correspond to a lower layer message that is a dummy message in the sense that the RAN ignores the message e.g. does not forward the message on to another entity and simply uses the message to compute or measure transmission statistics for ATs . . . N such as PER such that the transmission power levels of ATs . . . N can be updated if necessary. In another example the low load message can correspond to a relatively small application layer message e.g. an IP data packet that is relayed to a given endpoint e.g. the application server PDSN etc. . As used herein a low load data message corresponds to any message that is relatively small in length such that the transmission statistics of an AT can be measured without causing significant interference in the AT s sector. Also the low load message can be configured to incur a low amount of processing load at the RAN e.g. based on a flag for the RAN to ignore the low load message except for computation of transmission statistics etc. .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art while many different types of data messages having different purposes and destinations can be transmitted by an AT so as to result in the AT s transmission statistics being updated at the RAN the low load data message generated in and transmitted in is generated only in response to the expiration of the timer which is in turn established to reduce transmission power level setpoint drift e.g. a drifting of an actual transmission power level setpoint from an ideal or appropriate transmission power level setpoint for maintaining a given success rate during data transmission inactivity at an access terminal . Thus the message generation and transmission in and is distinguished from a keep alive packet for example where a packet is generated to keep a connection from being torn down e.g. because ATs . . . N can continue to monitor the communication session without sending keep alive packets . This is not meant to imply that the generated message cannot correspond to a keep alive packet but rather that the triggering criteria for the message generation in is transmission inactivity that may result in transmission power level setpoint drift in contrast with transmission inactivity that may result in a lost connection. Likewise the low load data message is distinguished from a pilot signal as noted above as the pilot signal is not used to measure transmission statistics for the AT.

After transmitting the low load data message in ATs . . . N reset the timer and ATs . . . N return to and continue to monitor the communication session. Turning to the RAN the RAN receives the low load data message s from ATs . . . N and measures transmission statistics for ATs . . . N . Based on the measured transmission statistics in the RAN determines whether to increase or decrease the transmission power level setpoints for ATs . . . N and sends the power level adjustment message s to ATs . . . N. After transmitting the power level adjustment message s the RAN returns to and continues to transmit data associated with the communication session to ATs . . . N. In response to the power level adjustment message s one or more ATs among ATs . . . N update their transmission power level setpoint s based on the power level adjustment message s received from the RAN .

The RAN receives the one or more messages from at least one of ATs . . . N and measures transmission statistics for the at least one transmitting AT and sends power level adjustment message s for adjusting transmission power level setpoint s for the transmitting AT s . Because the transmission power level setpoints of ATs . . . N have been kept up to date during the data inactivity period e.g. instead of being allowed to drift as in or increased irrespective of channel conditions as in it will be appreciated that the transmission power level from is likely to be relatively close to an ideal transmission power level for matching the transmission statistic target e.g. PER target as determined from the measured transmission statistics from and as such relatively few e.g. or even zero power level adjustment messages are likely to be required before ATs . . . N can transmit data at an appropriate transmission power level. Thus the initial data transmission s from ATs . . . N can likely be sent at an appropriate transmission power level even after a relatively long data inactivity period. However while not shown in it is appreciated that a sudden change to one or more of ATs . . . N transmission environment may prompt an additional power level adjustment message in despite the presence of the low load data messages during the data inactivity period.

Accordingly collectively illustrate a process by which the transmission power level setpoints of ATs can be maintained at up to date levels throughout the data inactivity period. The embodiment illustrated in relies upon a periodic low load data message to be sent in the event that no other data messages are transmitted within a given threshold period of time which is checked throughout the data inactivity period. This permits the individual ATs flexibility with regard to when data can be transmitted upon exit of a data inactivity period because the ATs maintain appropriate transmission power level setpoints throughout the data inactivity period.

In an alternative embodiment the ATs can rely upon advance knowledge of when data is to be transmitted or alternatively upon conditions that indicate a relatively high probability or likelihood that data will soon need to be transmitted such that the ATs need not send the periodic low load data message throughout the entirety of the data inactivity period but rather may send one or more data messages during the data inactivity period prior to an expected data transmission. Thus instead of maintaining the AT s transmission power level setpoint throughout the entirety of the data inactivity period e.g. which can potentially require many low load data messages to be sent if the data inactivity period is long and thereby can prompt many transmission power level adjustments this embodiment reduces the data messaging during the data inactivity period in favor of more quickly tuning the transmission power level setpoint prior to an expected data transmission as will now be described with respect to . In particular illustrates a high level flowchart of the above described process whereas C and D illustrate examples of the above described process performed for the communication session established in .

Referring to AT transmits data on a reverse link to the RAN . While not shown in assume that the RAN measures the transmitted data messages from and sends one or more power level adjustment messages to command AT to modify its transmission power level setpoint for reverse link transmissions. In AT determines to stop transmitting data for a given period of time e.g. although AT continues to send periodic pilot signals . For example the determination of may correspond to a user of AT deciding to release the floor of a group session ending a communication session pressing a mute button on a conference call etc.

Conventionally AT would not notify the RAN that AT is not expected to be transmitting data for a given period of time but rather simply stops transmitting the data. However in embodiments of the invention AT transmits a data stop message that informs the RAN that AT will not be transmitting data until further notice. In an example the data stop message of may correspond to a proprietary message on the reverse link e.g. such as a StorageBlobNotification or StorageBlobComplete message configured to inform the RAN of AT s expectation to cease data transmission . In an alternative example it is possible that a data stop message could be lost when transmitted over the air interface between AT and the RAN or even that the data stop message was never actually transmitted at all. In either case the RAN can be configured to infer a data stop message based on a period of data inactivity from AT lasting more than a threshold period of time. Thus the threshold period of time in this example becomes the longest period of time after a previous data transmission before the power level adjustment messages reducing the transmission power level setpoint are sent as will be described below with respect to and .

The RAN receives the data stop message and in response to the data stop message the RAN transmits one or more power level adjustment messages to AT that instruct AT to lower its transmission power level setpoint . For example the RAN may continue to transmit power level adjustment messages until AT is expected to reach a transmission power level for AT s pilot signal transmissions over the TCH that is established for ATs during data inactivity periods. Alternatively the RAN may send a fixed number of power level adjustment messages to cause a fixed amount of decrease to AT s transmission power level setpoint. AT receives the one or more power level adjustment messages and decreases its transmission power level setpoint accordingly . Thus the pilot signal transmissions for AT over the TCH can be kept at relatively low power levels during the data inactivity period which both reduces power consumption at AT and decreases system interference.

In AT determines whether conditions are detected that indicate that AT has a relatively high or certain probability of transmitting data within a threshold period of time e.g. 200 ms 2 s etc. . For example the detection of can be in response to downlink data inactivity of a monitored communication session from which AT can infer that a current floor holder is likely to soon give up the floor. Alternatively the detection of can be in response an actual floor release message received in association with the monitored communication session. In another alternative example the detection of can be based on user input from a user of AT e.g. a user of AT begins pushing buttons on AT to enter a phone number from which AT can infer the user will then dial the phone number when the entry is complete . In a further example the determination of can be based on past user behavior. For example if AT corresponds to a mobile phone that has an accelerometer that detects motion of AT assume that each time a user of AT removes AT from his her pocket and places AT close to his her mouth AT is used to initiate a voice dialing operation. In this case the accelerometer can be used as a trigger to prepare for an expected data transmission by AT . The user s past behavior can be stored on AT with a table storing a set of known user behaviors with a probability that those behaviors will result in a data transmission within a given threshold period of time. For example if a user of AT loads a text message Instant Message or email application and enters a series of keystrokes adding data to the message AT can infer that the user will in the near future request transmission of the message. In another example the session transport layer may also have logic transactions that provide a prediction of a potential or likely data transmission e.g. if HTTP TCP exhibit intermittent activities spread over many seconds . In other words a pattern of data transmission e.g. one data transmission per minute can be used to infer future data transmission activity.

If the determination of indicates that AT desires to transmit data or expects a likelihood that AT will soon desire to transmit data AT transmits a data start message . In an example the data start message of may correspond to a proprietary message on the reverse link e.g. such as a StorageBlobNotification or Complete message configured to inform the RAN of AT s expectation to renew data transmission . In another example the data start message of may correspond to any message from which the RAN can measure transmission statistics to ascertain whether to make adjustments to AT s transmission power level setpoint e.g. such as the low load data message from and of in an example . In a further example in certain circumstances it will be appreciated that the data start message of can be sent in advance of an actual data transmission from AT which can provide sufficient time to adjust AT s transmission power level setpoint for an initial data transmission after the data inactivity period.

The RAN measures the transmission statistics associated with the data start message in and transmits one or more power level adjustment messages to increase AT s transmission power level setpoint . In an alternative example the RAN can respond automatically to the data start message by sending the power level adjustment messages because the RAN is aware that AT s transmission power level setpoint has likely been maintained at an artificially low level during the data inactivity period initiated by the preceding data stop message. AT receives the power level adjustment message s and adjusts its transmission power level setpoint accordingly . In AT determines whether to actually send data to the RAN on the reverse link. If AT determines to send data to the RAN in AT transmits the data at the transmission power level setpoint established in . While not shown in if AT determines not to send data in e.g. because a floor release message was received at AT but a user of AT decided not to request the floor etc. the process can return to and another data stop message can be sent to the RAN which will again scale down AT s transmission power level setpoint.

In an alternative example the data start message can be configured to flag a degree of expected data transfer from AT . For example if AT intends to sends a relatively high amount of data the high data transfer can be conveyed to the RAN via the data start message. In this case the RAN may more aggressively increase AT s transmission power level setpoint either by increasing the step size or setpoint adjustment of each power level adjustment messages or by sending a higher number of power level adjustment messages that indicate a setpoint increase.

In another alternative example if AT intends to transmit certain high priority messages without sufficient notice such that the data start message would not have enough time to ramp up AT s transmission power level setpoint in the manner described above or if a data start message is sent by AT but for some reason the data start message has been lost e.g. over the air interface between AT and the RAN AT can send the high priority message s at an increased transmission power level i.e. higher than its current transmission power level setpoint autonomously to increase the success rate of the data transmission. For example if a user of AT presses a PTT button on AT and AT has an artificially low transmission power level setpoint due to reverse link data transmission inactivity the PTT request transmitted from AT to the RAN can be transmitted at an increased transmission power level. In an alternative example AT may infer that a data packet is lost based on not receiving lower layer SLP ACKs or RLP ACKs NAKs when transmitting the Data Start message. In this case AT may increase its transmission power level due to the inferred packet loss.

Above has been described at a high level applicable to any type of data inactivity period. Below are directed to the general process of applied with respect to the communication session established in e.g. a group session supported by IP unicasting such as a PTT session where each call participant has a TCH . Thus with respect to assume that the process of executes and the process then advances to B of . In B AT determines to release the floor for the communication session and AT sends a floor release message to the application server via the RAN B. The application server notifies ATs . . . N that the floor is now available B and at least one of ATs . . . N requests the floor B. Turning back to AT because AT determined to release the floor in B AT also sends a data stop message to the RAN B which indicates that AT is going to stop transmitting data messages over a reverse link TCH although AT still sends a periodic reverse link pilot signal. In response to the data stop message the RAN transmits one or more power level adjustment messages B that instruct AT to decrease its transmission power level setpoint to a given level e.g. the transmission power level setpoint that is established for ATs during data inactivity periods . AT receives the power level adjustment message s and lowers its transmission power level setpoint accordingly. While not shown this means that AT s pilot signal will be transmitted at a lower transmission power level for a period of time. However in at least one embodiment the transmission power level for AT s pilot signal during periods of reverse link data inactivity may be maintained above a threshold level. For example if AT s pilot transmission power level drops too low a Data Link between AT and the RAN may be lost and channel elements at the RAN may be de allocated and the TCH torn down. Thus if loss of the Data Link is suspected or detected the BTS may inform the BSC and the BSC can increase the pilot power of AT by increasing the setpoint. It will be appreciated that considerations related to loss of the Data Link are not performed in the conventional art discussed above because AT s transmission power level setpoint is set to an artificially low level only in embodiments of the invention. As will be appreciated with respect to respectively B corresponds to B corresponds to B corresponds to and B corresponds to .

Turning back to the application server after receiving the floor request s in B the application server determines to grant one of the floor requests and sends a floor grant message to one of ATs . . . N B. The new floor holder begins transmitting data B which is forwarded by the application server to AT as well as any other group members among ATs . . . N other than the current floor holder B each of which monitors the communication session B and B.

Next in C AT as well as any group members among ATs . . . N receives a notification from the application server indicating that the floor is available for contention. Accordingly AT transmits a floor request message e.g. in response to a prompt form the user of AT C at a transmission power level corresponding to the adjusted i.e. increased transmission power level setpoint. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art with respect to respectively C corresponds to C corresponds to C corresponds to C corresponds to C corresponds to and C corresponds to .

Turning to after B of assume the new floor holder sends a floor release message at some point during the communication session D. Unlike assume that no downlink data inactivity in the communication session is detected by AT before the new floor holder decides to give up the floor. Accordingly in D AT as well as any group members among ATs . . . N receives a notification from the RAN that the floor is available for contention. Because the floor is now open for contention AT becomes aware of the possibility that a subsequent floor request message may be triggered by a user of AT such that a data transmission becomes likely and or possible. Thus the receipt of the floor release notification qualifies as a detection at AT that AT may soon be required to transmit data. Accordingly AT sends a data start message D such that AT s transmission power level setpoint can be set to an appropriate level if the user of AT determines to request the floor. As will be appreciated because users rarely respond instantly to incoming calls or notifications a given amount of lag time before AT is required to transmit data is likely e.g. 500 ms or more such that the data start message of D may be sent with enough time for AT s transmission power level setpoint to be adjusted to a more appropriate level for data transmission. Accordingly the RAN measures transmission statistics based on the data start message D and sends one or more power level adjustment messages to AT to set AT s transmission power level setpoint to an appropriate level for transmission D. AT receives the power level adjustment message s and adjusts i.e. increases its transmission power level setpoint accordingly D.

Next AT transmits a floor request message e.g. in response to a prompt from the user of AT D at a transmission power level corresponding to the adjusted transmission power level setpoint. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art with respect to respectively D corresponds to D corresponds to D corresponds to D corresponds to D corresponds to and corresponds to .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art while the data start and data stop messages are described in with respect to AT only it will be appreciated that these messages may also be send by any of ATs . . . N where appropriate. In other words the process described with respect to AT in e.g. conveying information to the RAN of an AT s expected intent regarding future data transmissions can potentially be applied at other ATs within the communication system .

In view of the embodiments of the invention described above it will be appreciated that drift or inaccuracy associated with transmission power level setpoints for an AT s reverse link transmission occurring during data inactivity periods can be reduced in a number of ways. For example the AT can be configured to send periodic low load data messages to the RAN which permits the RAN to adjust the AT s transmission power level setpoint e.g. for a particular flow or TCH for all data transmissions etc. throughout the data inactivity period based on changing conditions instead of simply increasing the setpoint automatically e.g. or making no changes to the setpoint at all e.g. . Alternatively the AT can be configured to convey to the RAN information related to when AT expects to stop sending data e.g. a data stop signal and or information related to when AT expects to begin sending data again e.g. a data start signal . In this way AT s transmission power level setpoint can be lowered during reverse link data inactivity periods to reduce pilot signal transmission power over a TCH and AT s transmission power level setpoint can be re established or reset to an appropriate level in time for an initial data transmission to be transmitted at the appropriate transmission power level based on a target level for transmission statistics measured by the RAN .

Further while not described above in detail the degree to which an AT adjusts its transmission power level setpoint in response to a particular power level adjustment message can be dynamically set by the RAN based on one or more criteria. For example the setpoint step size can be established based on methodologies described within A Reverse Link Outer Loop Power Control Algorithm for CDMA2000 1xEVsystems by Rashid Attar and E. Esteves published on Aug. 7 2002 on pages 573 578 of Communications 2002. ICC 2002. IEEE International Conference which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The above incorporated article describes reverse link outer loop power control ROLPC algorithms developed for voice systems that operate based on a continuous stream of packets CRC events to adjust the transmission power level setpoint where the setpoint is conservatively adapted to the channel in the absence of packets with fast convergence at the start of a transmission.

Further while references are made above to an ideal or appropriate transmission power level setpoint it will be appreciated that this level is relative to target transmission statistics for the AT. The actual transmission statistics e.g. PER SINR etc. for the AT are measured at the RAN and compared against the target transmission statistics with the transmission power level setpoint being adjusted when necessary to maintain the transmission statistics close to the target transmission statistics. In a further example both the target transmission statistics and ideal transmission power level setpoint e.g. which can change significantly with time as conditions change can correspond to ranges and not discrete or specific points.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

