---

title: Vehicle reduced emission deployment
abstract: A reduced emission apparatus is coupled to a vehicle such that the vehicle is enabled to operate in a reduced emission mode by use of the reduced emission apparatus. A data acquisition apparatus is mounted on the vehicle and configured to acquire data relating to operation of the vehicle. Security may be provided for the reduced emission apparatus and vehicle-mounted data acquisition apparatus. The credits from operating the reduced emission apparatus apply to resources for deploying the reduced emission apparatus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09631528&OS=09631528&RS=09631528
owner: Clean Emissions Technologies, Inc.
number: 09631528
owner_city: Cornelius
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100902
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 239 760 filed on Sep. 3 2009. This application is related to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 661 668 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 374 709 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 774 732 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 558 786 which are all hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPA has set National Ambient Air Quality Standards NAAQS for six common air pollutants also called criteria pollutants. The criteria pollutants are carbon monoxide nitrogen dioxide ozone lead particulate matter and sulfur dioxide. NAAQS are often referred to as federal health standards for outdoor air.

The Clean Air Act which was passed in 1970 and last amended in 1990 requires the EPA to set NAAQS for pollutants that cause adverse effects to public health and the environment. The Clean Air Act established primary and secondary air quality standards. Primary standards protect public health including the health of sensitive populations such as asthmatics children and the elderly. The primary standard is often referred to as the health standard. Secondary standards protect public welfare including protection against decreased visibility damage to animals crops vegetation and buildings. Standards are reviewed periodically to ensure that they include the most recent scientific information.

Non attainment areas are regions within the country where the concentration of one or more criteria pollutants exceeds the level set as the federal air quality standards. Once the EPA announces that an area does not meet the health standard the State works with businesses local governments and the public to reduce the emissions from sources contributing to the non attainment status of the area.

One or more embodiments of the present invention concern emission credits relating to a reduced emission mode of vehicle operation. In one aspect the credits provide incentives for deploying reduced emission operation for vehicles.

One or more embodiments of the present invention concern instances of a vehicle capable of operating in modes in which the vehicle is powered i in an internal combustion engine ICE mode i.e. powered solely by one or more ICE prime movers and ii a non ICE mode i.e. powered solely by one or more prime movers other than an ICE. Prime movers other than an ICE may include one or more devices such as an electric motor hydraulic motor etc.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the vehicle is capable of operating in an efficient ICE mode wherein the vehicle has one or more ICEs operated more efficiently such as due to use of a non ICE prime mover concurrently with one or more non ICE prime movers use of ICE exhaust treatment equipment or both.

Herein reference to operation in a reduced emission RE mode is intended to apply to instances of vehicle operation in the non ICE mode and to instances of vehicle operation in the efficient ICE mode. That is reference herein to an embodiment of the invention in which the vehicle is configured to operate in an RE mode is intended to include an embodiment in which a vehicle operates in a non ICE mode an embodiment in which a vehicle operates in an efficient ICE mode or an embodiment in which a vehicle operates in both non ICE and efficient ICE modes.

Referring now to a vehicle includes a control and data acquisition apparatus CONT. DATA ACQ. mounted on the vehicle . A remote control and data acquisition CONT. DATA ACQ. apparatus is located remote from the vehicle and is configured to receive data acquired by the vehicle mounted apparatus . The vehicle mounted apparatus is configured to acquire operational data for the vehicle including but not limited to the following for a driving session 

One or more of the vehicle mounted control and data acquisition apparatus and the remote control and data acquisition apparatus are configured to calculate vehicle performance information including but not limited to one or more of the following.

Performance information may be determined at server level rather than on the vehicle. Also one vehicle may be used as a surrogate to determine a standard fuel consumption savings while not on ICE. Alternatively engine regulator standards may be used.

In the above pollutants not emitted refers to an amount of emissions avoided while driving in a non ICE mode or at least an efficient ICE mode . One or more emission factors may be endorsed or established by an authority such as a governmental agency or nongovernmental organization. The one or more factors may be used to calculate an amount of emissions that the authority considers would have been created had the ICE of the vehicle been running or had it been running less efficiently . The factors may be based upon vehicle operating parameters.

In various embodiments of the invention the vehicle mounted control and data acquisition apparatus interfaces with the vehicle s existing control or data system to obtain certain of the operational data and may also include one or more additional devices for acquiring certain of the operational data that is not otherwise available or conveniently available from the existing vehicle control or data system .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the vehicle includes a retrofit RE apparatus . In an embodiment of the invention the RE apparatus includes an electric traction system as described in one or more of the following U.S. patent applications which are hereby incorporated herein by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61 037 851 Ser. No. 11 374 709 Ser. No. 11 558 786 and Ser. No. 12 060 368. In such a system an electric motor generator is connected to a power take off port of a manual transmission of the vehicle via a transfer gear mechanism.

In an embodiment of the invention illustrated in the RE apparatus includes an electric motor generator M G retrofitted to the drive train not shown of the vehicle such as in an arrangement as disclosed in one or more of the above identified U.S. patent applications and powered and directly controlled by an inverter controller INV CONT. which is supplied by a battery BATT. . The RE apparatus further includes a vehicle control module VCM which communicates with existing vehicle devices via a data bus for example to detect vehicle speed engine status etc. The vehicle control module also communicates with the inverter controller to provide further control aspects responsive to existing vehicle devices . According to this arrangement the electric motor generator propels the vehicle supplied by the battery when the vehicle control module is in an electric traction motor control mode. Correspondingly the electric motor generator may recharge the battery via regenerative braking and also when the vehicle control module is in a control mode wherein the existing internal combustion engine propels the vehicle .

In other embodiments of the invention the RE apparatus does not include electric traction motor or motor generator.

In an embodiment of the invention a lender may finance installation of a retrofit RE apparatus on a vehicle for a borrower where the vehicle is owned and operated by the borrower. The financing may include secured credit e.g. credit that is legally secured by the RE apparatus and possibly also by the vehicle .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the vehicle mounted control and data acquisition apparatus is configured to communicate one or more selected items of the above described operational data and calculations to the remote control and data acquisition apparatus which is controlled by one or more party or agent thereof including a vehicle owner vehicle operator lender emission credit aggregator emission credit clearing house and a governmental organization. The remote apparatus may be controlled by an agent of the lender. The vehicle mounted apparatus and remote apparatus may be configured to communicate the selected data in one or more of the following circumstances on demand automatically at predetermined time intervals and or automatically in response to one or more predetermined events.

In embodiments of the invention the vehicle mounted apparatus may download the data locally to a device capable of then uploading the data to the remote apparatus . Such communications may be via cell phone type transmissions WiFi and other wireless measures. Bluetooth communication means may also be implemented in the system.

The installed RE apparatus may communicate with a global positioning system GPS mounted on the vehicle . The GPS is shown in the illustrated embodiment of the invention as included among the one or more devices but is included among the devices in another embodiment of the invention. The GPS may be configured to broadcast the location of the vehicle to the remote apparatus and or a remote mobile tracking device accessible by the lender. In respective embodiments of the invention the broadcasting is continuous at intervals upon default by borrower and or upon demand by the lender. In the illustrated embodiment of the invention the remote device is a portable device so that an agent of the lender may use the device to follow and track down the vehicle in order to retrieve the vehicle . The GPS may also be configured to display to the vehicle operator one or more routes in which the vehicle can be driven to reduce emissions i.e. increase operation in the RE mode. Alternatively a separate display such as described herein with respect to may be utilized for such a function.

The RE apparatus is configured to communicate with the control and data acquisition apparatus . The apparatus calculates emission credits or data for emission credits i.e. data upon which the remote apparatus can compute emission credits based on time operating in the RE mode instead of the ICE mode. The credits may be based at least partly on emission factors predetermined by an agency such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency which factors may be based at least partly upon vehicle operating parameters. Accordingly the vehicle mounted apparatus is configured to acquire data from the vehicle and calculate emissions that the agency considers would have been created had the ICE been running during the interval when the vehicle was instead operating in the RE mode.

The vehicle mounted apparatus is further configured such that the GPS enables the apparatus to relate the emission reductions to particular geographic zones for reporting or banking Such zones may include non attainment zones and areas otherwise having operating restrictions or goals which may include residential areas and may include ports and other staging areas for example. Accordingly in an embodiment of the invention the apparatus is configured to calculate the emission credits further in response to vehicle location at the time of calculated emission reductions.

In this regard the control and data acquisition apparatus is configured to determine the location of the vehicle from the GPS and to compare the location to a map that indicates predetermined boundaries of certain geographic areas such as ports or other special areas. Examples of other special areas include known emission limit non attainment areas and areas having known high volume vehicle traffic and particular land uses such as residential use for example. This arrangement may be particularly advantageous for addressing noise ordinances. Accordingly it should be understood that the term emission includes noise emission as the term is used herein. 

If the control and data acquisition apparatus determines responsive to the comparing that the vehicle is within the boundaries of a such a predetermined geographic area the apparatus switches the RE apparatus into the RE mode if the apparatus is not already in the RE mode . In an alternative the apparatus locks in the RE mode while the vehicle remains within the area. Further in an embodiment of the invention the apparatus is initialized with maximum speeds for respective predetermined geographic areas and is configured to limit the vehicle s maximum speed while the vehicle remains within such a speed limited area. The apparatus may also communicate that the vehicle is within an attainment area or any other area for that matter and begin determining how the vehicle can be positioned to have a greater disposition towards the RE mode. Furthermore while approaching a predetermined geographic area the logic in the vehicle may implement processes to ensure the batteries are charged or charging.

Moreover the apparatus may display to the vehicle operator one or more routes to travel that would increase even maximize operation in the RE mode.

In one embodiment of the invention the RE apparatus the vehicle mounted apparatus and the GPS have one or more security means for preventing the apparatus the apparatus and the GPS from being removed other than by the lender or the lender s authorized agent and which permits only the lender or the lender s authorized agent to modify the RE apparatus the vehicle mounted apparatus and the GPS or at least their GPS related control and data acquisition aspects. In one embodiment of the invention security means includes a physical security device . In one embodiment of the invention security means includes control logic in the GPS and control logic in the RE apparatus as well as means for communicating one or more control signals between the control logic in GPS and the control logic of the RE apparatus wherein the GPS control logic generates a keep alive security signal at time intervals which is communicated by communication means to control logic of the RE apparatus and to the control and data acquisition apparatus . Communication means may include a hard wired connection or short range wireless communication transmitter and receiver.

In one arrangement of this embodiment the vehicle control module shuts down the vehicle in response to failure to receive the security signal from the GPS within a predetermined time. In one arrangement of this embodiment the control and data acquisition apparatus sends a notification to the control and data acquisition apparatus or the tracking device in response to failure to receive the security signal from the GPS within a predetermined time. Further in an embodiment of the invention the apparatus the apparatus and the GPS are configured such that a password or key are required to reconfigure them which prevents tampering by unauthorized persons. Typically these devices never shut down a moving or operating vehicle rather they prevent it from being started again after the key has been turned to the off position.

Regarding the calculated emission reduction credits that result from operation of the vehicle in the RE mode the credits may be owned or transferred to someone other than the vehicle owner such as the lender so that the value of the credits are in one alternative used to offset the financing payments by the borrower to the lender. This is particularly facilitated since arrangements described herein provide that i the RE apparatus the control and data acquisition apparatus and the GPS are physically located on the vehicle and ii tamper proof functioning of the RE apparatus the control and data acquisition apparatus allows the lender to remotely determine the location of the vehicle and track down the vehicle in order to retrieve the vehicle which may be done upon payment default as one condition.

Referring now to in one or more embodiments of the invention the RE apparatus includes an ICE exhaust filter which may include a catalyst a sensor mounted on or near the filter and a heater supplied by a source such as a battery or a fuel cell. The sensor may be configured for measuring an operating temperature of the filter and communicating the temperature to a controller such as the VCM or the controller . Control logic in the controller may be configured for energizing the heater responsive to detecting that the ICE of the vehicle is running such as detecting via the VCM and that the sensor indicates the filter temperature is below a predetermined desirable operating temperature. In this way the filter will be heated to a desirable high operating temperature for processing exhaust during ICE operation even if the heat of the ICE exhaust has not yet caused the filter to reach that desirable minimum operating temperature.

Due to the relatively small size of emissions credits for individual vehicles or even fleets of vehicles it may be inefficient for an emission credit granting agency to administer a system of granting vehicle emission credits. The inefficiency may arise on both sides of transactions i.e. both with regard to collecting and submitting emission reduction data and with regard to granting credits. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention include aspects that relate to aggregating and clearing.

Referring now to aggregating aspects include the control and data acquisition apparatus initializing emission reduction accounts for the vehicles or the fleets of vehicles collecting emission reduction data for the individual vehicles or fleets aggregating the collected vehicle emission reduction records and submitting them to an agency or a clearing house for obtaining a credit obtaining a credit for an aggregated collection and distributing the credits to the vehicle owners or vehicle creditors in exchange for a fee. Clearing aspects include receiving emission reduction credit requests verification of the requests granting credits for the requests and balancing credits granted relative to credits authorized. In an embodiment of the present invention aspects of emission credit clearing may extend beyond vehicle oriented aspects.

In some instances regulations may impose emissions restrictions that limit vehicle operations which may include outright prohibition of vehicle operation. A desire to limit vehicle emissions may even arise due to private objectives or agreements. Consequently emission credits may be more valuable to one vehicle operator than to another. Accordingly a need may arise for trading of vehicle emission credits to other vehicle operators or even unrelated parties such as power companies. Accordingly an embodiment of the present invention includes aspects that relate to vehicle emission credit trading.

It should be understood from the foregoing that embodiments of the invention are useful for obtaining emission credits swapping credits determining and reducing penalties and for increasing RE mode operation in abatement areas and areas of maximum credits or penalties. Due to the incentives provided to drivers by emission credits embodiments of the present invention tend to maximize the RE mode of operation in certain geographic zones and to correspondingly increase emission reduction credits and reduce emissions. In other words vehicle operators are encouraged to operate the vehicle in the RE mode. The emission credits may be associated with drivers and vehicles and provide a measure of driver and vehicle performance. This can be accomplished by storing a database in one of the control processing units in the vehicle or by one of the described remote systems wherein the database stores the above described vehicle operating parameters on a per driver vehicle basis. Furthermore the operating parameters for a vehicle described herein may be used by the data processing systems herein to calculate estimated fuel savings when the vehicle is operating in the RE mode since it is known how to calculate miles per gallon for a vehicle based on speed distance and other operating parameters. Additionally estimated reductions in PM NO CO and other emissions can be calculated for RE mode operations. Such data can then be further analyzed to obtain rebates and tax credits from government agencies and to enable fleet owners to determine aggregate fuel savings over time.

Referring now to method aspects regarding the arrangement shown in are illustrated according to one or more embodiments of the invention. A reduced emission apparatus may be retrofitted to a vehicle or be installed as OEM such that the vehicle is enabled to operate in a reduced emission mode by use of the reduced emission apparatus. The reduced emission apparatus may be optionally financed for a borrower by a lender. A data acquisition apparatus is installed on the vehicle and configured to acquire data relating to operation of the vehicle. Security means may be optionally provided for the reduced emission apparatus and vehicle mounted data acquisition apparatus which includes configuring the reduced emission apparatus to prevent the borrower from removing the reduced emission apparatus and data acquisition apparatus. The data acquisition apparatus may be optionally configured to communicate data for lender or operator owner emission credits. The vehicle operates in the reduced emission mode. The data acquisition apparatus configuration includes configuration such that data acquisition apparatus communicates data for the credits computed based on vehicle operation in the reduced emission mode .

Referring now to the credits from operating the reduced emission apparatus apply to resources for deploying the reduced emission apparatus. That is in an embodiment of the invention the credits may accrue directly to a lender for payments due from the borrower for the lender financing of the reduced emission apparatus.

In another aspect a global positioning system is mounted on the vehicle and configured to communicate the location of the vehicle to a remote location and one or more of control units on board the vehicle and may also communicate other telemetry.

In another optional aspect providing security means includes configuring the reduced emission apparatus to prevent the borrower from removing the global positioning system and from interrupting broadcasting of the vehicle location by the global positioning system.

In another optional aspect communicating the location of the vehicle to a remote location includes communicating to a mobile tracking device of the lender so that lender can use the mobile tracking device to retrieve the vehicle.

In another optional aspect configuring the vehicle mounted data acquisition apparatus includes configuring the vehicle mounted data acquisition apparatus such that the apparatus notifies a remotely located apparatus responsive to the vehicle mounted data acquisition apparatus receiving an indication of tampering from security means.

With reference now to method aspects regarding the arrangement shown in are illustrated according to one or more embodiments of the invention. The sensor and heater are mounted on or near the filter and the heater is supplied by a source. The sensor is configured for measuring an operating temperature of the filter and communicating the temperature to the controller . Control logic in the controller is configured for energizing the heater via a source responsive to detecting that the ICE of the vehicle is running and that the sensor indicates the filter temperature is below a predetermined desirable operating temperature. In operation the filter is heated to a desirable high operating temperature for processing exhaust during ICE operation even if the heat of the ICE exhaust has not yet caused the filter to reach that desirable minimum operating temperature.

With reference now to a pictorial representation of a data processing network system is presented in which the present invention may be implemented. The network system contains a network which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within the network system . The network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links and or fiber optic cables etc.

In the depicted example a server is connected to the network along with a storage unit . In addition clients and are connected to the network . In an embodiment of the invention the vehicle mounted control and data acquisition apparatus of a first instance of the vehicle see includes client the vehicle mounted control and data acquisition apparatus of a second instance of the vehicle includes client etc. and the remote control and data acquisition apparatus see includes a server and the storage unit .

The clients and may be application specific embedded systems general purpose embedded systems personal computers or network computers for example. In the depicted example the server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to the clients and . The clients and are clients to the server . The network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown. In the depicted example the network data processing system may be the Internet with the network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another.

Referring to a block diagram of a data processing system that may be implemented as a server such as the server in is depicted in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The data processing system may be a symmetric multiprocessor SMP system including a plurality of processors and connected to a system bus . Alternatively a single processor system may be employed. Also connected to the system bus is a memory controller cache which provides an interface to a local memory . An I O bus bridge is connected to the system bus and provides an interface to the I O bus . The memory controller cache and the I O bus bridge may be integrated as depicted.

A peripheral component interconnect PCI bus bridge connected to the I O bus provides an interface to a PCI local bus . A number of modems may be connected to the PCI local bus . Typical PCI bus implementations will support four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors. Communications links to network computers and in may be provided through a modem and a network adapter connected to the PCI local bus through add in boards. Additional PCI bus bridges and provide interfaces for additional PCI local buses and from which additional modems or network adapters may be supported. In this manner the data processing system allows connections to multiple network computers. A memory mapped graphics adapter and a hard disk may also be connected to the I O bus as depicted either directly or indirectly.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in may vary. For example other peripheral devices such as optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted. The depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.

The data processing system depicted in may be for example an IBM e Server pSeries system a product of International Business Machines Corporation in Armonk N.Y. running the Advanced Interactive Executive AIX operating system or LINUX operating system.

The server may provide a suitable website or other internet based graphical user interface accessible by users to enable user interaction for aspects of an embodiment of the present invention. In one embodiment a Netscape web server IBM Websphere Internet tools suite an IBM DB2 UDB database platform and a Sybase database platform may be used in conjunction with a Sun Solaris operating system platform. Additionally components such as JBDC drivers IBM connection pooling and IBM MQ series connection methods may be used to provide data access to several sources. The term webpage as it is used herein is not meant to limit the type of documents and applications that might be used to interact with the user. For example a typical website might include in addition to standard HTML documents various forms Java applets Javascript active server pages ASP Java Server Pages JSP common gateway interface scripts CGI extensible markup language XML dynamic HTML cascading style sheets CSS helper applications plug ins and the like.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating a data processing system is depicted in which aspects of an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. The data processing system is an example of a client computer. The data processing system employs a peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus architecture. Although the depicted example employs a PCI bus other bus architectures such as Accelerated Graphics Port AGP and Industry Standard Architecture ISA may be used. A processor and a main memory are connected to a PCI local bus through a PCI bridge . The PCI bridge also may include an integrated memory controller and cache memory for the processor . Additional connections to the PCI local bus may be made through direct component interconnection or through add in boards. In the depicted example a local area network LAN adapter a small computer system interface SCSI host bus adapter and an expansion bus interface are connected to the PCI local bus by direct component connection. An audio adapter a graphics adapter and an audio video adapter are connected to the PCI local bus by add in boards inserted into expansion slots. A display may be coupled to the adapter .

The expansion bus interface provides a connection for a keyboard and mouse adapter a modem and additional memory . The SCSI host bus adapter provides a connection for a hard disk drive a tape drive and a CD ROM drive . Typical PCI local bus implementations will support three or four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors.

An operating system runs on the processor and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within the data processing system in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Windows XP which is available from Microsoft Corporation. An object oriented programming system such as Java may run in conjunction with the operating system and provide calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on the data processing system . Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. Instructions for the operating system the object oriented operating system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as the hard disk drive and may be loaded into the main memory for execution by the processor .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash ROM or equivalent nonvolatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the present invention may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

As another example the data processing system may be a stand alone system configured to be bootable without relying on some type of network communication interface whether or not the data processing system comprises some type of network communication interface. As a further example the data processing system may be a device configured with ROM and or flash ROM in order to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or user generated data.

The depicted example in and above described examples are not meant to imply architectural limitations. The present invention may reside on any data storage medium i.e. floppy disk compact disk hard disk tape ROM RAM etc. used by a computer system. The terms computer system computer system and data processing system and are used interchangeably herein. 

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical biological electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

One or more databases may be included in a host for storing and providing access to data for the various implementations. One skilled in the art will also appreciate that for security reasons any databases systems or components of the present invention may include any combination of databases or components at a single location or at multiple locations wherein each database or system includes any of various suitable security features such as firewalls access codes encryption de encryption and the like.

The database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Common database products that may be used to implement the databases include DB2 by IBM White Plains N.Y. any of the database products available from Oracle Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. Microsoft Access by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. or any other database product. The database may be organized in any suitable manner including as data tables or lookup tables.

Association of certain data may be accomplished through any data association technique known and practiced in the art. For example the association may be accomplished either manually or automatically. Automatic association techniques may include for example a database search a database merge GREP AGREP SQL and or the like. The association step may be accomplished by a database merge function for example using a key field in each of the manufacturer and retailer data tables. A key field partitions the database according to the high level class of objects defined by the key field. For example a certain class may be designated as a key field in both the first data table and the second data table and the two data tables may then be merged on the basis of the class data in the key field. In this embodiment the data corresponding to the key field in each of the merged data tables is preferably the same. However data tables having similar though not identical data in the key fields may also be merged by using AGREP for example.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules implemented in software for execution by various types of processors may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module. Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the descriptions herein numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Those skilled in the art having read this disclosure will recognize that changes and modifications may be made to the embodiments without departing from the scope of the present invention.

It should be appreciated that the particular implementations shown and described herein are illustrative of the invention and its best mode and are not intended to otherwise limit the scope of the present invention in any way. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what can be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features can be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination can be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing can be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further no element described herein is required for the practice of the invention unless expressly described as essential or critical.

Headings or titles herein are not intended to limit the invention embodiments of the invention or other matter disclosed under the headings.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

