---

title: Method for synthesizing metal bis(borano) hypophosphite complexes
abstract: The present invention describes the synthesis of a family of metal bis(borano) hypophosphite complexes. One procedure described in detail is the syntheses of complexes beginning from phosphorus trichloride and sodium borohydride. Temperature, solvent, concentration, and atmosphere are all critical to ensure product formation. In the case of sodium bis(borano) hypophosphite, hydrogen gas was evolved upon heating at temperatures above 150° C. Included in this family of materials are the salts of the alkali metals Li, Na and K, and those of the alkaline earth metals Mg and Ca. Hydrogen storage materials are possible. In particular the lithium salt, Li[PH(BH)], theoretically would contain nearly 12 wt % hydrogen. Analytical data for product characterization and thermal properties are given.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08465715&OS=08465715&RS=08465715
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08465715
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100702
---
This application claims priority to prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 228 859 originally filed Jul. 27 2009 and entitled Synthesis of Metal Phosphino Boranes as Hydrogen Storage Materials from which benefit is claimed.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.

The present invention relates generally to metal phosphine borane compounds their synthesis and their use as hydrogen storage materials. More particularly the invention relates to the synthesis of Na PH BH .

As the cost of energy continues to soar increasing interest is directed toward the development of new sources of fuels. The continuing and ever increasing consumption of fossil resources is of particular concern due both to the consequences of increased global demand for dwindling reserves of easily obtained petroleum oil and the continuing and growing threat of global warming. In particular the amount of petroleum oil refined and burned as gasoline in order to fuel automobiles in this country and the amount of natural gas coal and petroleum fuel for central electric power generating stations continues to increase with no end in sight. An alternative fuel for either or both of these applications is especially desired in view of the amounts of resources consumed and the amount of greenhouse gases generated annually as a result of converting these fuels into energy through combustion.

One possible and very attractive alternative fuel is hydrogen since it produces only water vapor as a byproduct when burned. However storage of hydrogen for automotive applications is problematic. Storage of hydrogen as a metal hydride has been extensively investigated for at least the last 40 years. Unfortunately because of thermodynamic and kinetic constraints the essential properties needed for a hydride storage material high hydrogen capacity low reaction enthalpy reversibility and low desorption temperature are very difficult to satisfy simultaneously.

Several simple borohydride compounds particularly calcium borohydride and magnesium borohydride are being investigated for their utility to reversibly store and release hydrogen on demand. Unfortunately both of these materials decompose to form the thermodynamically stable anion BH limiting any hope for a reversible system. Furthermore thermal decomposition of these borohydrides requires temperatures in excess of 300 C. Preparation of the calcium and magnesium borohydrides is difficult. Several of the accepted prior art methods include using diborane BH gas see U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 545 633 and 3 224 832 a potentially dangerous material due to its ability to spontaneously ignite in moist air and as a causative agent for respiratory distress.

Materials that can release hydrogen gas upon heating are desirable for numerous transportation and military applications in addition to stationary power supplies. These materials are unique because they offer a potentially high density means of storing hydrogen gas. This disclosure discusses the synthesis of a new family of materials which contain a P B bond. Hydrogen atoms account for the remaining unbound valence electrons at phosphorus and boron sites. In most cases the materials are negatively charged with an alkali or alkaline earth cation Li Na K Mg Ca etc. . This class of materials was first reported in the mid 20th century. The synthesis is difficult and the hydrogen storage properties have not been widely explored. Meyer and Laubenga Mayer E. and Laubenga A. W. Reaktion von Phosphinboran Phenylphosphinboran and Phosphoniumjodid mit Natriumtetrahydridoborat 1970 v. 101 1138 1144 reported the synthesis of Na PH BH from the two different routes 

Other similar salts are known but the hydrogen storage properties have not been assessed Rudolph R. W. Parry R. W. and Farran C. F. The structure of Phosphine Borane 1966 v. 5 5 pp. 723 726 . The lithium salt Li PH BH which has not been reported would contain nearly 12 wt hydrogen.

In an embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for preparing an alkali metal salts of the bis borano hypophosphite anion PH BH by direct synthesis of an alkali or alkaline earth metal borohydride and phosphorous trichloride.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a method is provided for producing a quantity of hydrogen gas through the decomposition of alkali or alkaline earth metal bis borano hypophosphite compounds.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways in which the subject matter may be practiced all of which are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the appended drawings

In this disclosure we describe an alternative route for synthesizing the sodium and lithium salts of the bis borano hypophosphite anion PH BH . The stoichiometric reactions are shown below in Eqs. 5 8.

A 500 mL three neck round bottomed flask with a stir bar was charged with 6 grams of sodium borohydride NaBH in 200 ml of a first solvent such as dry 1 2 dimethoxyethane DME in a glove box filled with an inert gas such as argon dry nitrogen helium or the like. The flask was closed removed from the glove box and attached to a Schlenk line. The resultant suspension was then cooled with a bath of dry ice and isopropyl alcohol IPA . A second flask was prepared with a 100 mL of dry DME and 5.45 grams of phosphorous trichloride PCl and similarly cooled as the first flask. The PClsolution was then added under an inert gas such as argon dry nitrogen helium or the like via cannula to the cold suspension of NaBH. The reaction solution was allowed to mix vigorously while warming to room temperature over several hours. After mixing for an additional 40 hours at room temperature the contents of the flask were poured into a third round bottomed flask. Most of the volatile materials were removed under reduced pressure using a rotary evaporator leaving a white solid although some of the DME solvent would usually remain. The solid was further processed in air by adding 200 mL of a second solvent such as diethyl ether to the flask and the suspension mixed. The suspension was then filtered through a pad of diatomaceous earth on a fitted glass frit. The white solid and filter pad were again washed a second and third time with an additional quantity of 100 mL of diethyl ether with each wash. At each wash the liquid ether was collected and then concentrated under reduced pressure to provide a colorless oil comprising diethyl ether with some remaining DME. Excess residual solvent was removed under high vacuum at 60 C. to give a white solid. This procedure yielded 2.51 grams or 75.5 based on the starting quantity of PCl. The reproducibility of the yields of this process ranged between 50 and 80 .

Lithium salts can be prepared in a similar manner using lithium borohydride in THF instead of DME. Yields typically ranged from 50 70 . Other salts could potentially be made using the corresponding borohydride precursor or via salt metathesis also suggested by Mayer and Laubenga op. cit. 1970 an example of which is shown below in Eq. 7 wherein the sodium cation is metathesized from another suitable metal cation 

Thermal decomposition of the sodium salt shows a mass loss occurring above 150 C. of 3 wt 6 wt . Analysis of the gas phase species evolved from this process detected H PHand BH. An exact yield for the gaseous species could not be determined.

Additives such as sodium alanate NaAlH lithium alanate LiAlH sodium amide NaNH and potassium hydride KH all significantly change the decomposition properties of Na PH BH . For example when a 1 1 molar mixture of Na PH BH and LiAlHwas heated a mass loss of 12 wt was measured. shows the thermal decomposition trace for this particular reaction.

Therefore a new route for synthesizing the salts M PH BH where M Na Li Mg Ca etc. has been described and where the hydrogen storage potential of these materials has been demonstrated. To the extent necessary to understand or complete the disclosure of the present embodiment of the invention all publications patents and patent applications mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference therein to the same extent as though each were individually so incorporated.

Having thus described exemplary embodiments of the present invention it should be noted by those skilled in the art that the disclosures herein are exemplary only and that various other alternatives adaptations and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments as illustrated herein but is only limited by the following claims.

