---

title: Insured deposit note program
abstract: A method for alternative methods of processing customer deposit offers through an automated insured deposit management system by placement of investor funds with and through one or more SPE's in deposits accounts at not less than the minimum number of funded issuers required to meet regulatory guidelines, in exchange for issuance by the SPE of an insured deposit note as evidence of the amount of funds loaned to the SPE and secured by a pledge of insured deposits, including an optional allocation of a portion of interest earned on the funds to charities, and with a record of the process and allocations being stored in connection with the SPEs and investors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595102&OS=08595102&RS=08595102
owner: New Affinity Concepts Corp.
number: 08595102
owner_city: Miami
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100913
---
The present invention relates to the combined fields of deposit funding to financial institutions and optional fundraising for charitable organizations. More particularly it concerns a unique and novel process of using computerized systems and processes to appropriately structure control and manage the distribution of large deposits from investors to multiple financial institutions so that all of the investors deposits are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the FDIC with respect to bank deposits and the National Credit Union Administration the NCUA with respect to deposits in Federal Credit Unions. The result is the creation of a new and novel financial instrument issued by special purpose business entities to investors and with the optional feature of enabling investors and financial institutions to designate a portion of interest earned on the deposits to be donated to one or more charitable organizations the Program .

Complex business methods have received patents for structuring expanded FDIC deposit coverage through sweep programs Oncken U.S. Pat. No. 4 985 833 securitization of certificates of deposits Colvin U.S. Pat. No. 7 206 761 an interbank auction method Jacobsen U.S. Pat. No. 7 376 606 and reciprocal deposits Bent U.S. Pat. No. 7 536 350 . All of these programs are effective in achieving expanded FDIC insurance through various forms of a central transaction control process which results in a lack of flexibility limited degree of control by banks over the size timing and pricing of transactions and treatment of the deposits as brokered deposits which are not favored by the FDIC and cannot be accepted by any bank that is not well capitalized as defined by the FDIC.

Affinity programs are a common marketing tool used by many businesses including financial institutions like banks and credit unions so there is a value to linking a financial product with affinity groups such as charitable organizations in order to increase customerged with implementing the FDIC guarantee on deposits in all Federal and State licensed banking institutions in the United States. The NCUA is the government agency with the responsibility to charter and supervise federal credit unions and to manage that National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund NCUSIF which insures the accounts in all federal credit unions and the majority of state chartered credit unions all with the full faith and credit of the US government. All references herein to banks issuers and financial institutions are intended to include both banks and credit unions.

The regulations governing the insurance of deposits in financial institutions are structured to establish insurance coverage based on defined categories of ownership rights. As a result all funds that are held in any one ownership category even though held in different accounts are aggregated i.e. the total amount held in all of the accounts in an ownership category is subject to the insurance limit while funds held in different ownership categories are insured separately so the maximum amount of insurance is applied to each ownership category not each account.

As a result of the limitations on FDIC NUAC insurance anyone with funds in an amount that substantially exceeds the Insured Limit Amount have generally not considered using deposits in banks or credit unions issuers as an investment vehicle until methods were developed to obtain expanded coverage by distributing the funds to many financial institutions through a network of financial institutions managed by an agent in a manner that allows for a pass through of the insurance to the investor.

Although different methods are used by different services the network process of achieving expanded insurance generally involves a centralized system for controlling transactions and maintaining data on the receipt and allocation of ownership of funding from multiple investors in deposits with multiple issuers in such a manner that there is either a virtual or actual distribution of funds to deposit accounts at the multitude of issuers with not more than the Insured Limit Amount of funds in any one financial institution being allocated to owned by any one depositor so all of the depositor s funds are treated as insured. Through this network process depositors are offered the convenience of placing funds in one account in the network with the administrator directing funds to a sufficient number of financial institutions to achieve full insurance on all of the depositor s funds limiting the amount at any one institution to no more than the Insured Limit Amount for each depositor while blocking placement of funds in any bank that a depositor may also have placed other deposits thus maintaining full insurance on all of the depositor s funds in the network. For depositors with large deposits the existing network services are very beneficial. For issuers the network services provide a product that they could not create on their own but they are then restricted to working within limitations that are inherent in the structure of the particular network service that they use limits as to the size of deposits rates offered timing of transactions and treatment as brokered deposits. As an example one of the largest network services only offers transactions once a week.

The new and novel structure of the present invention involves use of any of several corporate and unincorporated association business trust forms of organization but most practically non profit corporations and business trustsas special purpose entities SPE s to receive and hold funds loaned by an investor to the SPE which then places the funds in insured deposits deposit accounts like money market savings and NOW accounts and or certificates of deposits CDs as directed by the investor. In exchange for the loan the SPE issues to the investor an insured deposits note instrument as evidence of the obligation to repay the funds to the investor either on demand for funds placed in deposit accounts like money market or savings accounts or at maturity for funds placed in CDs . The debtor creditor structure of the relationship between the investor and the SPE is the meaningful factor insofar as that structure establishes that the SPE is treated as the insured entity not the investor. These structures involve lower costs of formation and continuation of existence as well as fewer tax issues.

By using this structure both the investors and the issuers obtain meaningful benefits. The investors benefits are 

 a Obtaining the same level of liquidity and security as any FDIC insured interest bearing demand account i.e. money market savings negotiable order of withdrawal NOW accounts etc. payable on demand 

 b Receiving all of the protection associated with issuer deposit products government regulation and audits protecting funds in the issuer and

 c Avoiding risk of losing government insurance due to inadvertent placement of other funds of the investor in the same issuer i.e. there is no aggregation of these deposits with other balances that the investor has at any participating issuer.

 a Obtaining far greater flexibility in executing transactions on any day at any rate for any term without regard for the limiting conditions normally set by network services and

With respect to the use of a debt instrument issued to investors prior art disclosed in the Colvin Patentemploys the use of a complex securitization process which involves issuance of debt or equity certificates by limited liability companies with many certificates being acquired in a unit investment trust or other formal securitization structure in which shares would then be offered to investors through a sophisticated SEC Rule 144 offering process that is complex expensive and significantly limited insofar as the product is only permitted to be sold to qualified institutional buyers. This condition was set out in FDIC Advisory Opinion 04 03issued to Colvin in connection with the FDIC s evaluation of that program although no mention of this condition is included in the patent specifications or the materials disclosed in the application for the Colvin Patent relating to regulatory conditions that had to be met.In addition the structure specified in the Colvin Patent is limited by being an offering of only CDs all of which must be issued on the same terms at the same time in one transaction and issued simultaneously by a minimum of 100 banks conditions that have proven to be difficult to achieve insofar as only 2 small offerings have ever been closed over the last six years. U.S. Pat. No. 7 206 761 issued to Robert Colvin Apr. 17 2007.The term qualified institutional buyer or QIB is defined by the SEC in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933 as an investing entity that owns and invests at least 100 million of securities on a discretionary basis and has a net worth of at least 25 million. In addition to size QIBs must be either an insurance company investment company employee benefit plan trust fund Business Development Company 501 c 3 not for profit organization corporation partnership business trust or investment adviser.FDIC Advisory Opinion 04 03 dated Jul. 26 2004.The documentation for the Colvin Patent only shows disclosure of the FDIC Advisory Opinion issued to Colvin on Dec. 19 2002 not a later more restrictive FDIC Advisory Opinion issued to Colvin on Jul. 26 2004.

Unlike all of the prior art the unique and novel method of the present invention is simple easy to structure costs little to implement and links easily with the inventor s existing Deposit Network which has over 100 banks participating in the Network so all of the necessary conditions for expanded insurance are immediately available. By using the automated method and system specified in the present invention either the network administrator or an issuer seeking to provide expanded insurance for a customer can quickly structure and complete a transaction with expanded insurance for a single investor at any time and on the particular terms that are agreed to with that investor.

The present invention addresses deficiencies of the prior art with respect to expanded insured deposit products and deposit fund management by providing a novel and non obvious methods systems and computerized processes that extend prior inventions of the inventor. It does this by using the systems and methods to create a simple non securitized insured deposit note instrument as a new investment product which together with the computer implemented systems and processes described herein enables financial institutions to initiate methods for the placement of large deposits of investors in one or more financial institutions. This is done so that all of the investors funds are insured by the full faith and credit of the US government while implementing an optional feature of designating a portion of the interest on deposits to be donated to one or more charitable organizations.

The method includes first receiving an offer of a large deposit from a customer or potential customer and then selection of one or more of a series of SPE which meet FDIC conditions that qualify them as being engaged in an independent activity and which enables them to be readily employed in the process of structuring expanded insurance for the customer investor. For this purpose the administrator shall have formed multiple SPE that are pre qualified to perform in this capacity.

In one embodiment of the invention an administrator can form a master trust with an unlimited number of series or classes as sub trusts each of which is a separate and distinct business entity which is entitled to separate insurance on deposits held by it in any issuer. In another embodiment of the invention an administrator can form one or more not for profit corporations which would also be separate business entities entitled to separate insurance on deposits held by it. In all cases the administrator can form new SPEs and direct funding transfer of its own funds or those of other investors in the Program to each SPE sufficient to enable the SPEs to place deposits in multiple issuers so that each of the SPEs qualifies as being engaged in an independent activity as required by the FDIC which according to opinions rendered by the FDIC requires distributions to at least 100 issuers.Each SPE formed and funded is referred to herein as a Pre Funded SPE. All references to SPEs in this application shall be assumed to refer to Pre Funded SPEs.See FDIC Advisory Opinion 04 03 issued Jul. 26 2004.The processes for SPE formation funding and distribution are fully automated and can be completed within minutes.

The method then includes establishing for the program a maximum amount of deposits the System Maximum Amount that any one SPE will place as a deposit with any one issuer which amount is preferably but not necessarily less than the full amount of the Insured Limit Amount for example 245 000 as opposed to the maximum insured amount of 250 600 so that interest accruing on the deposit will also be insured.

The method then includes receiving in a network administrator data processing system a request from an investor to place funds in an investment that is backed by FDIC NCUA insurance.

The method then includes a determination being made as to whether the investor is coming to the Program through an originating issuer an issuer that is known to the investor and through which the investor will initiate placement of funds in the Program and whether the originating issuer desires to have any portion of the investor s funds structured as deposits of SPEs at the originating issuer.

In one embodiment the administrator can use the methods and systems of the present invention to organize funding to many issuers whenever no originating issuer is involved in the transaction or whenever an originating issuer is involved but does not intend to receive any portion of its customer s funds structured as deposits of SPEs at the originating issuer. In this case the method can include administrator s selection of a series of issuers sufficient in number to hold the amount of funding by the investor by placement through one or more SPEs making deposits at the multiple issuers e.g. the number of issuers being determined by dividing the total deposit amount by the System Maximum Amount .

In another embodiment of the invention rather than the multi issuer method a different multi SPE method can be used for transactions involving an originating issuer that desires to receive and hold as deposits from SPEs any portion of the funds being invested by the investor customer of the originating issuer. In this case the method can include selecting multiple Pre Funded SPEs each of which will open deposit accounts at the originating issuer. To fund these accounts each SPE receives funds from the investor as a loan in the amount of not more than the System Maximum Amount and the SPE places the funds in a deposit account in the name of the SPE or in the name of an agent for the benefit of the SPE at the originating issuer with the total amount in all accounts of all SPEs being equal to the amount of the investor s funds which the originating issuer chose to receive as deposits. Any portion of investor s funds that are not placed through an SPE at the originating issuer are placed through the administrator with other issuers subject to any limiting instructions of the investor. As a result all of the investor s funds placed with and through the SPEs shall be placed in separately insured deposit accounts of SPEs at the originating issuer and or other issuers. The ability of the originating issuer to receive all of its customer s funds arises because administrator shall have already created and pre funded SPEs so they are readily available for use by any originating issuer or the administrator. Under the circumstances the originating issuer can choose at any time to hold an amount of deposits of SPEs equal to or greater or less than the amount of its investor customer s funds in the Program. In addition to the extent that changes occur in the level of funding by the investor customer the changes will be structured to directly adjust the balances of the SPEs at the originating issuer without relating to adjustment of balances or ownership interests of funds at any other issuers in the Program i.e. there is no need for reciprocal funding separate and apart from the funding resulting from deposits generated as a result of changes in the level of the investor customer s funds placed with and through the SPEs in deposit accounts at the originating issuer.

In another embodiment of the invention whenever there are changes in the level of investment by an investor customer of an originating issuer there will be an option of the originating issuer to request a similar change in the amount of funds in the SPE deposits at the originating issuer. If the change is an increase in funding by the investor the issuer can authorize the administrator to distribute the new funds to other issuers. If the change is a decrease in funding by the investor the issuer can request that administrator maintain the level of funding to SPE accounts at the issuer by withdrawing funds from other issuers to meet the request for withdrawal of the investor. In either event the administrator can fulfill the request of the issuer by initiating a computer implemented algorithm which will reallocate ownership of deposits at all issuers so that ownership allocated to the SPEs holding deposits at the originating issuer include funds of investors other than the investor customer of the originating issuer which is requesting a withdrawal of funds from the originating issuer. In effect the originating issuer can determine at any time and from time to time the level of funding which it desires regardless of whether that amount of funding to it is either equal to greater than or less than the amount of the funds placed in the Program by the investor customer of the originating issuer. In any event the deposits placed with the originating issuer are funds deposited by the SPEs not funds of any investor or customer of the originating issuer and any changes in the level of funding into the SPE s deposits at an originating issuer will always be determined by the issuer independent of the amount of funding provided by an investor customer of the originating issuer i.e. changes in the funding to the originating issuer will not be based on any changes in the level of funds of the investor customer of the originating issuer as opposed to being based on directions from the originating issuer as to the level of funding desired by it .

The funds available from the investor for distribution to issuers can include using as few as one SPE depending on the amount of the investment to receive the funds and distribute the funds to 100 or more issuers with no more than the System Maximum Amount of deposits placed with any one issuer. For example assuming that only 100 issuers are receiving deposits from one 1 SPE and selection of a System Maximum Amount of 245 000 the method can structure an investment of up to 24.5 million from any one investor by using two 2 SPEs the method can structure an investment of up to 49 million from any one investor etc. Whenever the multi issuer method is being applied the embodiment of the invention can include a determination as to whether there are a large or small number of issuers with capacity for taking i.e. desire to receive deposits. If there are a large number of issuers seeking funding only one or a few SPEs will be needed to fill the order by distributing the funds to the most number of issuers possible. If there are only a few issuers with an interest in receiving deposits then there can be a selection of as many Pre Funded SPEs as are needed to safely structure placement of all the deposits through those SPEs into the issuers that are seeking deposits.

With respect to the structuring of any transaction with an investor as and when funds are invested by the investor the method includes automatic issuance to the investor of an insured deposit note in book entry form only no physical document is required from each SPE as evidence of the amount of funds placed with the SPE receiving funds from the investor which note serves as evidence of the obligation of the SPE to repay that amount to the investor describing the terms of the placement by the investorand stating that the SPE pledges as security to investor a portion of the deposits held by it equal to the amount of funds advanced by the investor to the SPE. Perfection of the investor s security interest in the deposits is accomplished by holding of the SPE s deposits in the name of a third party institution which may be a bank a trust company or a law firm. In each case the third party institution holds the deposit as agent for the SPE with respect to its ownership of the deposit and as agent for the investor with respect to its security interest in the deposits. The terms would be on demand relative to money market type deposits and at maturity relative to CDs

Finally a record of the selected portions of the funds placed with and through each SPE at each issuer is stored in connection with the investor in storage of the network administrator data processing system which integrates the deposits with other deposits held by the network administrator. In one embodiment of the invention the method and system integrates the deposits with an affinity program which calculates and distributes a portion of the interest on designated accounts to be paid to charitable organizations.

In one aspect of the embodiment the method also includes generating a report accounting for each selected investor depositing funds through a financial institution into accounts held by or for the benefit of a series of SPE s and then distributing a portion of the funds of each SPE into deposits at other issuers participating in the network managed by the administrator with and through particular SPEs into one or more deposit accounts in a series of issuer in an amount never exceeding the System Maximum Amount for any one SPE at any one issuer. In even yet another aspect of the embodiment the steps of selecting portions of the funds for deposit with and through one or more SPE s also includes excluding issuers specified by the investor from selection for placement of funds of the investor 

The methods of this invention are performed by systems including data processing components and facilities that are considered necessary or preferred for performing financial methods. These systems receive and post customer transactions distribute and invest investor funds issue directions to initiate funds transfers among issuers and track and store records for transactions funds transfers and allocations of ownership in a database all in a manner which is organized to be integrated with the different financial systems of all participating financial institutions including various configurations within such institutions.

Additional aspects of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The aspects of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein. However it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely illustrative of the invention that may be embodied in various forms. Each example given in connection with the various embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative and not exclusive or restrictive. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not intended to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a method system and computer program for an automated deposit management process which creates the insured deposit note instrument as a new and novel deposit product with expanded FDIC NCUA insurance and the option to link with the automatic designation of donations to any selected charitable organization. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention funds can be deposited by depositors with and through one or more of multiple special purpose business entities SPEs which will deposit up to the System Maximum Amount in each of one or more issuers as directed by a network administrator and thereby ensuring that no SPE maintains more than the Insured Limit Amount in any one issuer. Further each investment of funds by an investor with and through the SPE s can be tracked in a database to definitively identify the amount placement vehicle type and particular issuer receiving funds placed by an investor through an SPE.

The information required to make this determination is derived from information regarding 1 whether an originating issuer is involved in bringing the investor to the Program and 2 whether the originating issuer intends to receive as deposits of SPEs any portion of the funds being invested by the investor customer of the originating issuer . If the answers to both questions are positive then the multi issuer method Method 1 is used. If the answer to either of the questions is no then the multi SPE method Method 2 is used.

In operation administrator receives information regarding an investor which is seeking to place funds in the Program as insured deposits together with information as to whether the investor is coming through an originating issuer and if so whether that originating issuer intends to accept any portion of the funds to be invested by the investor . The following Table demonstrates the influence of the initial information on the structure to be employed by each Method 

From Table 1 it is possible to see that achieving expanded insurance coverage can be accomplished by either the use of multiple SPEs or multiple issuers. The external conditions determine which method should be used in order to meet the interests of both the investor and participating issuers especially the originating issuer that is introducing the investor customer to the Program.

Once the number of issuers is computed the investor makes a loan A to the SPE s in exchange for which the investor receives one or more insured deposit note instruments B from the SPE s as evidence of the loan including the grant of a first security interest in the deposit s that are transferred through the Master Custodian to issuers . In order to perfect this security interest these deposits are placed in deposit accounts 155 in the name of a deposit custodian as agent for the SPE s at the issuers .

Once the number of SPEs required is computed investor makes a loan A to each of the SPEs and receives in exchange an insured deposit note instrument B from each SPE as evidence of the loan including the grant of a first security interest in the deposits that are in this case transferred directly to the originating issuer which will also be serving as the deposit custodian for the SPEs for which the originating issuer is acting as agent for the SPEs as owners of the deposits and the investor for which the originating issuer is holder of the deposits as collateral for the insured deposit note instrument .

In operation of the Program for liquid funds money market savings accounts and the like whenever funds are received or withdrawn algorithms are run expressing rules in the System Logic that test for any possible best allocation of deposits of the SPEs to different issuers based on an evaluation of the capacity for funding to and the rate of interest offered by each issuer together with funding commitments made pursuant to any agreements made with issuers relating to either minimum or maximum levels of deposits to be maintained with each issuer . These algorithms however will not apply to funds specifically allocated to a single issuer which could be an originating issuer that intends or is required to maintain the funds of the investor customer at that issuer or . In addition the System Logic can determine whether certain of the issuers must be excluded blocked from the selection process of the administrator according to instructions given by any investor . Thereafter the System Logic can direct placement of the deposits of any one of the investors to accounts of each SPE with any of the issuers .

Finally one or more computer records can be written to a ledger memorializing the placement of the funds for investors with and through one or more SPEs in deposits at selected issuers and any subsequent reallocation arising as a result of the reallocation process.

The process described in connection with and the methods illustrated in can only be managed through an automated deposit management data processing system. In illustration schematically depicts an automated deposit management data processing system. The system can include a host server hosting an operating system supporting the execution of system logic and configured for communicative coupling to different computing platforms of different investors or their agents different SPE s and different computing platforms for different issuers over inter operative communications networks which also link to network connections of the master custodian deposit custodian s and issuers . Each of the different computing platforms can include an account management application providing an interface whether a user interface or application programming interface or messaging interface through which system logic when executed in memory by a processor of the host server can direct the management of funds deposited with the issuers . As an optional feature the system logic can include designation of particular deposit accounts for calculation of donations to select charities through a module written for that purpose C. The proceeds for any charities shall be placed in escrow and paid out to the designated charities on a determined basis probably quarterly.

The database and storage can be coupled to the host server and can include a ledger in the form of a table spreadsheet or database into which the system logic can write and modify computer records memorializing the nature amount and location of deposits in accounts on behalf of different SPE s in different issuers . The computer records in the database and storage further can specify information used to determine through a Donation Allocation Module C the amount due to a charitable organization as a portion of the interest that it has earned on deposits in an account designated for that organization. As such the system logic in accessing the computer records of the database and storage can generate reports indicating for one or more investors SPEs and issuers the nature amount and location of deposits held by each SPE for investors at each issuer .

The system logic can include program code that when executed in memory by a processor of the host server can perform automated deposit management functions. The program code can include different programmatic modules specifically a funds apportionment module A a document formation module B a donation allocation and calculation module C a rebalancing module D and a reporting module E. The funds apportionment module A can include program code enabled to apportion funds according to a defined System Maximum Amount for each SPE account at any issuer and a System Minimum Amount for each issuer requesting Stay Deposits minimum aggregate amount of all SPE s at the select issuer . The apportionment computed by the program code of the funds apportionment module A can account for application of the Insured Limit Amount for each SPE to ensure that all of its deposits remain fully insured and that the administrator has applied the investors directions to exclude any specific issuers from receiving any funds placed by investor in the Program even though such conflicts should no longer be of concern when one is using the present invention there is no aggregation of deposits of SPEs with those of any investor .

The program code of the document creation module B can be enabled to post as book entries all documentation required in the Program including without limitation declarations of trusts for SPEs that are business trusts insured deposit note instruments and pledge and security agreements with deposit custodian .

The program code of the donation designation and computation module C can be enabled to identify SPEs for which charitable organizations are designated to receive a portion of the interest earned on the deposits and to compute the amount of funds accruing for the benefit of designated charities participating in the Program.

The program code of the rebalancing module D can be enabled to rebalance funds on a periodic basis such as at the end of each banking day in order to best allocate to issuers 1 funds of SPE s and 2 any allocation of funds of any investor in any one issuer or at different issuers in order to ensure that no allocation of deposits of any one SPE exceeds the Insured Limit Amount while ensuring that the funds of each SPE are distributed to at least the minimum number of issuers as required by the FDIC currently 100 issuers at all times and also optimizing interest earned on deposits directing the maximum funding possible to issuers offering the highest rate of interest on deposits while also meeting any agreed upon minimum level of funding of deposits to any preferred issuers .

Finally the program code of the reporting module E can be enabled to produce reports for administrator issuers and investors providing an indication of the amount and location of deposits in all SPE accounts at each issuer which reflects distribution of the funds of the investor and the interest earned on the funds.

In even yet further illustration of the operation of the program code of the system logic taken together illustrate two methods employed for automated deposit allocation management.

Considering first this multi issuer method is shown for directing the depositing of funds for an investor with and through accounts of one or more SPE s in different accounts at different issuers . In block a request can be received to deposit funds for an investor in insured deposit accounts.

In block the system obtains data on the capacity of issuers with specific reference to information on the capacity of issuers identified for priority funding such as new issuers and issuers with which the administrator has entered into a STAY Deposit Agreement in which the administrator assures that a certain level of deposits will be maintained at the issuer sometimes referred to as a preferred issuer . In addition information is obtained on issuers with the highest rates of interest on the deposits placed with the issuer and the capacity of these issuers .

With this information a selection is made of those issuers with the highest priority for funding the highest rate of interest and the capacity to receive deposits equal to the amount of the funds to be invested by the investor .

In block a calculation is then made of i the number of qualified SPEs needed to place the amount of funds intended to be placed in the selected issuers and ii the number of qualified SPEs then currently formed and funded and thus available to be used for the transaction. With this information it is determined whether there are a sufficient number of qualified SPEs or if not that they need to be formed and funded. If additional SPEs are needed the system can act to automatically form and direct administrator or investor funds to fund deposits in multiple issuer accounts for the benefit of new SPEs so that they will be qualified by FDIC standards i.e. holding funds in the minimum number of issuers as set by the FDIC currently at 100 .

Calculation of the first number involves dividing i the total amount of new investor funds to be placed by an SPE in a particular issuer by ii the System Maximum Amount which we will assume to be 245 000 for the purpose of this example. If the amount of new funds is also 245 000 then one issuer can receive all of the funds as a deposit made by an SPE using the funds of the investor . If the amount of the new funds is 2 million the number of issuers required would be 9 8 issuers taking 245 000 and one issuer taking a residual amount of 40 000.

For the second calculation the system determines whether an existing qualified SPE already has an account at the select issuer and if so whether the account is funded to the System Maximum Amount. If there is no account or if there is an account but it is not funded to the maximum amount then the SPE is available to be used up to the System Maximum Amount including funds already on deposit in any other account at the selected issuer .

Once a determination is made as to the number of issuers and SPEs to be used in the process a selection is made of those SPEs that are to be used to execute the order to place the investor s funds in insured accounts.

In block the system generates book entry of documentation required for each transaction including without limitation the insured deposit note instrument an agency agreement between the SPE and any deposit custodian s that will be holding funds on behalf of the SPE at the selected issuers and a control agreement between the deposit custodians each SPE and the investor reflecting the perfection of investor s security interest in the deposits of the SPE by way of the holding of the deposits in the name of the deposit custodian s .

In blocks through instructions are delivered for transfer of the investor s funds through the Master Custodian into accounts at the selected issuers opened in the name of a deposit custodian for the benefit of the selected SPEs .

In block there is an optional feature of designating of a portion of interest earned on funds in particular deposit accounts to be donated to a designated charitable organization.

In block the database records will store all records of the transaction including book entry of the issuance of the documentation generated records specifying the identity of the investors the selected SPE s and issuers portions of funds stored in the deposit accounts of the selected SPE s at the selected issuers and any charitable organizations designated to receive donations relative to particular deposit accounts.

Considering now the multi SPE method is shown for directing the depositing of funds for an investor with and through accounts of multiple SPE s to accounts that may all be at one issuer usually an originating issuer .

In block a request can be received to accept funds from an investor brought to the Program by an originating issuer that intends to receive at least a portion of the funds as deposits made on behalf of multiple SPEs into the originating issuer in which event multiple pre funded SPEs would be needed to fulfill the request.

In block a calculation is made as to the number of SPEs that would be needed for this purpose. As an illustration of one embodiment of the present invention if the amount of the investor s funding is 2 million and that the System Maximum Amount is 245 000 then 9 SPEs would be needed 8 of which would receive and then fund 245 000 to the originating issuer and one of which would receive and then fund 40 000 to the originating issuer .

In block a determination is made as to whether there are a sufficient number of qualified SPEs available. If additional SPEs are needed the system can act to automatically form and direct administrator or investor funds to fund deposits in multiple issuer accounts for the benefit of new SPEs so that they will be qualified by FDIC standards i.e. holding funds in the minimum number of issuers as set by the FDIC currently at 100 .

In block the selection is made of the SPEs to be used to execute the order and in block the funds are placed into accounts at the originating issuer opened in the name of a deposit custodian which may be the originating issuer for the benefit of the selected SPEs as to their ownership of the deposits and as control agent for the investor for the purpose of perfecting investor s security interest in the deposit of each SPE .

In block documentation is generated for the forms of agreements preferably book entry only used in the present invention which can include without limitation i the insured deposit note instrument from each SPE to the investor which serves as evidence of the loan made by the investor to each SPE and as the SPE s pledge of a first security interest in deposits held by the SPE equal to the amount of the funds advanced by the investor ii a pledge and security agreement between each SPE the investor and the deposit custodian pursuant to which it is agreed that the deposit custodian will hold the funds of the SPE deposited with issuer s as security for the SPE s obligation to repay investor in accordance with the terms of the note.

In block funds are received by the originating issuer into accounts reflecting that the originating issuer is receiving the funds in its capacity as a deposit custodian for the benefit of the SPEs as beneficial owners of the deposited funds and as agent of the investor relative to the first security interest therein.

In block there is an optional feature of designating of a portion of interest earned on funds in particular deposit accounts to be donated to a designated charitable organization.

In block a record can be written specifying the identity of the investors the selected SPE s and issuers portions of funds stored in the deposit accounts of the selected SPE s at the originating issuer and any charitable organizations designated to receive donations relative to particular deposit accounts.

To the extent that an originating issuer only accepts a portion of funds offered by an investor customer of the originating issuer the multi SPE Method 2 just described above would be applied to the portion that it is accepting as deposits and the multi issuer Method 1 illustrated in would be applied for the balance of funds that the investor is investing but is not being accepted as deposits by the originating issuer .

Turning now to in block a request can be received from an investor wishing to withdraw funds. In decision block a determination can be made as to the availability funds in deposit accounts of SPE s at any originating issuer to which the investor s withdrawal funds would be transferred i.e. funds in SPE accounts at the originating issuer as opposed to funds generally spread to deposit accounts at multiple other issuers in order to determine whether it s possible to process the full amount of the withdrawal request from accounts at the originating issuer . If sufficient funds are in SPE accounts at the originating issuer then the withdrawal request will be fulfilled by withdrawing funds from that originating issuer .

If sufficient funds are not available from deposit assets in SPE accounts at the originating issuer then instructions will be generated to withdraw the remaining portion of the withdrawal amount from deposits placed by SPEs at other issuers .

In block after the withdrawal request has been fulfilled all funds in the Program can be rebalanced to reflect the reduction of funds in the aggregate the reallocation of ownership of deposits and the distribution of deposits at issuers . That is done to ensure continuing insurance for the deposits within the limiting rules of the Program blocked issuers maximization of income from those issuers with the most favorable interest rates and the maintenance of minimum balances at preferred issuers .

In block an end of month routine is run to calculate and pay interest to investors to determine the net spread to administrator and the amount to be escrowed for charities.

For more detail on the invention s processing methods we turn to which is an illustration of the steps for funds allocation and income optimization algorithms of the Program. Step retrieves data from the administrator database to determine the net result of all transaction processing for the period usually daily .

If the net transactions are negative funds will need to be withdrawn from the Program. The first step of this process determines whether any issuer is requesting a decrease in its deposits. If no issuer is requesting a decrease in its deposits there can be a processing of the withdrawal from an issuer with the lowest interest rate on its deposits until the withdrawal amount has been obtained. The system then determines if the process has created sufficient funds to fulfill the withdrawal request. If yes then the process is complete and ends . If no then the process and evaluation of result is repeated by processing withdrawals from other issuer s with the next lowest rate until all the funds are obtained to fulfill the withdrawal request.

If in the alternative there is one or more issuers requesting a decrease in its deposits then there can be a processing of the withdrawal from the issuer with the lowest rate on its deposits. The system then determines if the process has created sufficient funds to fulfill the withdrawal request. If yes then the process is complete and ends . If no then process step and the evaluation of its result are repeated by processing a withdrawal from an issuer with the next lowest rate until all of the funds have been obtained to fulfill the withdrawal request.

Returning to step if the net transactions for the period are positive funds will need to be distributed to issuers in the Program. The first step of this stage of the process determines whether there are any issuers that are identified for priority funding like new issuers and preferred issuers . If there are no issuers identified for priority funding then step is processed allocating funds to the issuer with the highest interest rate up to the maximum of its capacity for funding. The system then determines if the process has allocated all of the new funds to issuers . If yes then the process is complete and ends . If no then process step and the evaluation of its result are repeated by processing allocation of funds to an issuer with the next highest rate until all of the funds have been allocated to issuers .

If in the alternative there is are issuers identified for priority funding then step is processed allocating the maximum amount of funds possible to the issuer with the next priority funding and the highest interest rate but not yet funded. The system then determines if the process has allocated all of the available new funds to issuers . If yes then the process is complete and ends . If no then process step and the evaluation of its result are repeated by processing allocation of funds to an issuer with the next highest rate until all of the funds have been allocated to issuers .

Finally upon ending of the funds allocation and income optimizing algorithms step is processed to update the records of the administrator s database .

The methods of this system are programmed in a suitable commercial programming language translated into machine instructions which cause a computer and its operating software and database to perform this invention s methods.

This invention includes a tangible product in the form of an insured deposit note instrument as well as program products comprising computer readable media containing encoded representations of the machine instructions.

The administrator systems are always in communication with the external systems of the master custodian A and deposit custodian s B while often also being in communication with the external systems of each participating issuer C 

Communication links between these systems can be one of many types such as private links shared links shared as part of private clearing house networks or networks of the Federal Reserve Board and other similar networks .

Embodiments of the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like. Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system.

For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device . Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The invention described and claimed herein is not to be limited in scope by the preferred or enumerated embodiments herein disclosed all of which have been included as illustrations of aspects of the invention. Any equivalent embodiments are intended to be within the scope of this invention. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from foregoing description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

