---

title: Systems, methods, and apparatus for improving the visibility and identification of satellites using light emitting diodes
abstract: Certain embodiments of the invention may include systems, methods, and apparatus for improving the visibility and identification of satellites using light emitting diodes. According to an example embodiment of the invention, a method is provided for improving the visibility of satellites. The method can include attaching one or more light emitting diodes (LEDs) to a satellite, supplying one or more signals to the one or more LEDs, and producing light emission having a unique identifier from the one or more LEDs based at least in part on the one or more signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08593065&OS=08593065&RS=08593065
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08593065
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100628
---
This invention was make with government support under Contract No. FA8802 04 C 0001 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention generally relates to satellites and in particular to improving the visibility and identification of satellites using light emitting diodes.

According to current estimates more than 8000 man made satellite objects are orbiting the earth. Tracking and identifying any particular one of these satellite objects from earth can present certain challenges and typically requires a powerful telescope and illumination of the object by the sun. However optimal solar illumination conditions usually occur in a limited time window near sunrise and sunset. Passively tracking satellites at night can pose additional challenges and typically requires sophisticated infrared detectors and optics that are optimized for the infrared spectrum. Passively tracking satellites during the day is extremely difficult if not impossible due to background radiation.

Some satellites are very small and are even more difficult to identify and track. Satellite identification can also be problematic when there is more than one object in the field of view of a tracking telescope. Orbital parameters can be utilized to predict the orbit of a satellite however small errors in the orbital parameters can lead to an incorrect identification of a satellite. Imaging the target satellite is another method of identification but this method is highly dependent upon the orientation of the satellite relative to the observer s view. In general there is a very narrow window in which a satellite can be identified and passively tracked.

Some or all of the above needs may be addressed by certain embodiments of the invention. Certain embodiments of the invention may include systems methods and apparatus for improving the visibility and identification of satellites using light emitting diodes.

According to an example embodiment of the invention a method is provided for improving the visibility of satellites. The method can include attaching one or more light emitting diodes LEDs to a satellite supplying one or more signals to the one or more LEDs and producing light emission having a unique identifier from the one or more LEDs based at least in part on the one or more signals.

According to another example embodiment a system is provided for improving the visibility of satellites. The system includes at least one satellite one or more light emitting diodes LEDs having predetermined wavelength emission spectra and attached to the at least one satellite. The system also includes at least one power source associated with the at least one satellite and a circuit for supplying one or more signals to the one or more LEDs to produce light emission having a unique identifier based at least in part on the one or more signals.

According to another example embodiment an apparatus is provided for improving the visibility of satellites. The apparatus includes a housing operable for attachment to a satellite. The housing includes one or more light emitting diodes LEDs having predetermined wavelength emission spectra a circuit for supplying one or more signals to the one or more LEDs and a power connector. The one or more LEDs are operable to produce light emission having a unique identifier based at least in part on the one or more signals or the one or more LEDs predetermined wavelength emission spectra.

Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. Other embodiments and aspects can be understood with reference to the following detailed description accompanying drawings and claims.

Embodiments of the invention will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Certain embodiments of the invention may enable the identification and tracking of a satellite object by installing one or more light emitting diodes LEDs on the satellite. According to certain example embodiments the satellite may be identified and tracked by installing one or more LEDs on the satellite where the LEDs may produce uniquely identifiable fingerprint signals that may include unique combinations of emission wavelength spectra color and or time domain modulation pulsing patterns .

Commercial off the shelf COTS LEDs are available with wavelength emission spectra spanning sections of a large portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. These LEDs can be pulsed over a wide range of frequencies and waveforms. Modern LEDs are compact devices that possess low masses and have long lifetimes. A single high luminosity prepackaged LED device typically occupies an area of approximately 30 mmand weighs a little over 0.5 gram.

Compared with other light sources such as incandescent and halogen bulbs with typical luminous efficiencies of 15 lumens watt and 24 lumens watt respectively LEDs are more efficient and are available with high luminous efficiencies exceeding 40 lumens watt. Therefore according to certain example embodiments of the invention lower electrical powers may be required to drive the LEDs to produce relatively high optical powers that may be visible from earth or from other satellites.

An additional benefit arises from accessing the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum using LEDs. Sensor technology in the visible region is more technologically advanced and cheaper than sensors in the infrared region. But according to an example embodiment of the invention it may be advantageous to choose a wavelength that is outside the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum to hide the signature of the satellite. These wavelengths may then be detected using the proper detection optics optimized for the wavelength of the emission according to example embodiments of the invention.

Satellites may be illuminated with laser radiation for the purposes of active tracking calibrations laser communications etc. However according to example embodiments of the invention the signature from on board LEDs can be used to ensure that the correct satellite is illuminated and thereby protect sensitive government space based assets from the unintentional illumination and communication with laser radiation.

According to example embodiments of the invention power to drive the LEDs may be supplied by batteries on the satellites bus or by solar cells. In certain embodiments of the invention the LEDs may be installed individually or in an array and may be mounted to an exterior wall of a satellite. According to example embodiments of the invention the number of LEDs may be tailored to match the desired brightness.

In an example embodiment of the invention LEDs may be connected to a current source and or a frequency generator. The frequency generator may be used to pulse the LEDs at a desired frequency and or waveform pattern. The color or wavelength of the LEDs could be chosen such that little or no modifications are needed to the optical path of the ground station or observing satellite. For example a ground station telescope or another satellite may track a satellite of interest by verifying the unique wavelength emission and modulation signature from the LEDs.

Various LEDs power supplies circuits lenses housings etc. may be utilized in improving the visibility and enabling the passive tracking of a satellite according to example embodiments of the invention. The various components will now be described with reference to the accompanying figures.

According to example embodiments of the invention the modulation waveform of the emission from the LED s may be controlled by the frequency generator. In other example embodiments of the invention the frequency generator may be eliminated from the circuit or disabled if pulsed operation is not needed. Therefore according to certain example embodiments the LED s may operate in continuous mode. In certain example embodiments a switch may be included for turning the circuit on and off if needed for example to conserve power . In certain embodiments the frequency generator may be programmed to drive the LED s with predetermined pulse patterns and at certain predetermined intervals. Therefore according to an example embodiment of the invention the programmable frequency generator may be used to conserve power.

In certain embodiments of the invention current for driving the LED s may be provided by the current source or power supply which may include batteries from the satellites bus or solar cells. In certain embodiments of the invention driving the LED s with the current source may produce the LED light emission needed for detecting and identifying the satellite. In certain embodiments a ground station on earth or a receiving satellite may receive and process the emission signature from the LED s and identify the transmitting satellite by the signature.

In accordance with an example embodiment of the invention also shows a lens that may be utilized to modify the LED light emission divergence angle from the LED s to produce a combined light divergence . The combined light divergence may have a Full Width Half Max FWHM divergence angle appropriate for concentrating a majority of the light from the LED s to the desired receiving device on earth or in the receiving satellite . In certain embodiments the lens may include anti reflection coatings to increase the optical throughput efficiency of the lens so that a higher power optical signal may be transmitted to the receiver.

In certain embodiments of the invention the LED s attached to the satellite may be used for producing light emission having a wavelength spectrum ranging from about 250 nanometers to about 30 microns. In other embodiments the LED s attached to the satellite may be used for producing light emission having a wavelength spectrum ranging from about 600 nanometers to about 660 nanometers. In certain embodiments signals may be provided by the LED signal circuitry for example as in signal circuitry of and may supply one or more of DC current modulated current or pulsed current for driving one or more LEDs.

An example method for improving the visibility of satellites will now be described with reference to the flow diagram of . The method starts in block and includes attaching one or more light emitting diodes LEDs to a satellite. In block the method includes supplying one or more signals to the one or more LEDs. In block method includes producing light emission having a unique identifier from the one or more LEDs based at least in part on the one or more signals. The method ends after block .

Accordingly example embodiments of the invention can provide the technical effects of creating certain systems methods and apparatus that provide cost effective compact equipment that can be installed on satellites for identification and or increased visibility. Example embodiments of the invention can provide the further technical effects of providing systems methods and apparatus for identifying a satellite by combinations of pulsing patterns and color emissions from one or more LEDs attached to the satellite.

In example embodiments of the invention the LED signal circuitry may include any number of hardware and or software applications that are executed to facilitate any of the operations. As desired embodiments of the invention may include a satellite LED system with more or less of the components illustrated in .

The invention is described above with reference to the flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the flow diagrams and combinations of blocks flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments of the invention.

These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer a special purpose computer a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example embodiments of the invention may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions embodied therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

While the invention has been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and various embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined in the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

