---

title: Minimization of steam requirements and enhancement of water-gas shift reaction with warm gas temperature CO2 removal
abstract: The disclosure utilizes a hydroxide sorbent for humidification and COremoval from a gaseous stream comprised of CO and COprior to entry into a water-gas-shift reactor, in order to decrease COconcentration and increase HO concentration and shift the water-gas shift reaction toward the forward reaction products COand H. The hydroxide sorbent may be utilized for absorption of COexiting the water-gas shift reactor, producing an enriched Hstream. The disclosure further provides for regeneration of the hydroxide sorbent at temperature approximating water-gas shift conditions, and for utilizing HO product liberated as a result of the COabsorption.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08617499&OS=08617499&RS=08617499
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08617499
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100922
---
This patent application is a continuation in part of and claims priority from nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 720 766 filed Mar. 10 2010 by Siriwardane et al and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relates to a hydroxide sorbent for humidification and COremoval from a gaseous stream comprised of CO and COprior to entry into a water gas shift reactor in order to decrease COconcentration and increase HO concentration and shift the water gas shift reaction toward the forward reaction products COand H. The hydroxide sorbent may be further utilized for absorption of COexiting the water gas shift reactor to produce an enriched Hstream and may be regenerated at temperatures approximating water gas shift conditions.

The water gas shift WGS reaction is a chemical reaction in which carbon monoxide CO reacts with water vapor HO to form carbon dioxide CO and hydrogen H . The water gas shift reaction is a highly significant industrial reaction and is used in conjunction with reforming of methane and other hydrocarbons for the production of high purity hydrogen among other applications.

The shift reaction is equilibrium limited and the extent of CO conversion is dependent on the temperature in the WGS reactor utilized and the temperature is typically such that the water vapor in the reaction exists as steam. In terms of pure stochiometry the shift reaction requires at least a steam to CO ratio of 1 to proceed however the equilibrium for Hproduction is favored by high moisture content. Additionally higher ratios may be utilized to avoid carbon deposition at a catalyst surface and formation of larger hydrocarbon molecules among other operational reasons. Adequate performance typically requires that steam be present significantly in excess of the minimum stiochiometric ratio and ratios equal or higher than two are frequently utilized.

The water gas shift reaction is commonly utilized following gasification where a fuel is converted into gaseous components by applying heat under pressure and chemically decomposing the fuel to produce synthesis gas syngas comprised of H CO CO and other gaseous constituents. Following cooldown from gasification temperatures the syngas may then be processed in a water gas shift reactor where the CO and steam react to produce additional COand increase the Hconcentration. Steam may be present in the syngas stream and may act to supply a portion of the steam to CO ratio required in the water gas shift reactor however typically an additional steam source is required in order to meet a steam to CO ratio that is operationally desired. Often the steam is generated during the syngas cooldown from the temperature condition of the gasifier to the desired temperature condition in the water gas shift reactor or it may be supplied directly from an alternate source. In terms of overall efficiency this additional steam requirement is a parasitic load with a negative impact. Regardless of the origin the requirement for additional steam consumes thermal energy which could be utilized to supply other steam loads.

Techniques exist to mitigate the requirement for additional steam sources. For example water slurry feed gasification systems generate a more humid syngas and often additional steam is not required for WGS reactor operation. However a water slurry feed system results in thermal efficiency losses and this problem is especially exacerbated with low ranked coals that already have a high water content. Another technique utilizes a dry feed gasifier to avoid the thermal efficiency losses and injects water droplets into the relatively dry syngas in order to provide syngas cooldown and humidify the syngas stream. This humidification reduces the quantity of steam injection subsequently required for WGS reactor operation and can somewhat mitigate the negative impact on plant efficiency. However the careful balancing of the required thermal transfer to the injected water droplets for syngas cooldown and the resulting steam to CO ratio of the cooled syngas subsequently sent downstream may still require additional steam injection before encountering the WGS reactor. See e.g. Martelli et al Comparison of coal IGCC with and without CO2 capture and storage Shell gasification with standard vs. partial water quench 1 2009 .

It would provide a significant advantage to provide a process whereby a syngas stream comprised of CO CO and Hcould be humidified prior to entering a WGS reactor in order to reduce or eliminate parasitic steam injection into the syngas stream.

There has also been significant effort toward removing the COpresent in syngas streams prior to WGS reactor entry in order to enhance Hproduction. The water gas shift is a reversible equilibrium limited reaction and thus becomes hindered when the concentration of COin the stream increases. As is well understood if the concentration of COin the syngas stream is reduced prior to entry into the WGS reactor the equilibrium of the water gas shift reaction is shifted in favor of the forward reaction products and conversion of CO and HO to COand Hincreases in the WGS reactor. One practiced approach is the use of a CO selective membrane on the syngas stream in order to remove some portion of the present COprior to WGS reactor entry. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 011 694 to Ho issued Mar. 14 2006 among others. Similarly water gas shift membrane reactors WGS MR utilize membranes to remove either Hor COas they generate in situ in the reactor shifting the equilibrium toward greater conversion to H. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 090 312 to Ziaka et al issued Jul. 18 2000 among others. These approaches effectively act to remove COor Hand shift the equilibrium favorably however preparing thin and durable membranes is a challenge and higher temperature operation can be difficult. An alternate approach utilizes a COsorbent such as lime or dolomite for COremoval. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 354 562 to Ying et al issued Apr. 8 2008 among others. Like the membrane approaches COremoval is realized however these methods do not act to mitigate any additional steam injection into the syngas stream that may be required.

It would provide a significant advantage to provide a process whereby COremoval from a syngas stream comprised of CO CO and Hcould be accomplished in a manner that further humidifies the syngas prior to entering a WGS reactor in order to shift the water gas shift reaction favorably while simultaneously reducing or eliminating steam injection requirements into the syngas stream.

There are similarly gasification processes which report the removal of COand the production of an enriched Hproduct through the use of COsorbents within a coal gasification reactor. For example calcium hydroxide Ca OH has been used for the sorption of COwith liberation of HO in coal gasification products in order to absorb COas it originates during gasification and provide an Henriched product. In these processes the molecular dispersion of the organic and oxidant reactants is conducive to rapid oxidation reactions and high Hproduction and the use of a separate water gas shift step can be avoided. However the process is most successful under supercritical conditions which imposes severe operational requirements. Under subcritical conditions the process tends to produce a higher level of methane which would likely necessitate WGS reactor operations following methane reforming in order to optimize the production of H. See Kuramoto et al Coal gasification with subcritical steam in the presence of a COsorbent products and conversion under transient heating 82 2003 . In the subcritical operation a methodology whereby a sorbent removes COand humidifies the syngas stream prior to entry into the WGS reactor would continue to remain valuable.

In an integrated plant such as an IGCC which utilizes a WGS reactor to boost the hydrogen concentration prior to hydrogen combustion carbon capture strategies also impose negative impacts on overall plant efficiency as is well known. The impacts are worsened when the carbon capture strategy requires absorption of COat low temperature and desorption at low pressure and or utilizes a solvent sensitive to water content in the synthesis gas stream necessitating water removal operations. These impacts exist in both pre combustion and post combustion carbon capture strategies although pre combustion capture in an IGCC plant offers distinct advantages because the COis relatively concentrated in the WGS reactor exit stream and the driving force for various types of separation and capture technologies is significantly improved. As a result there are significant efficiency advantages to using a COcapture sorbent operable at WGS reactor temperatures for pre combustion capture in an IGCC plant. It would be further advantageous if the sorbent material utilized for COabsorption and humidification of the syngas stream prior to entry into the WGS reactor was additionally utilized for COcapture following exit from the WGS reactor so that regeneration and COseparation for both processes could occur under similar conditions and so that the regeneration processes could be combined in order to mitigate energy and resource requirements arising from cyclic use of the sorbent material for both before and after a water gas shift reaction.

Accordingly it is an object of this disclosure to provide a process whereby a gaseous stream comprised of CO and COcan be humidified prior to entering a WGS reactor in order to reduce or eliminate parasitic steam injection into the gaseous stream.

Further it is an object of this disclosure to provide a process whereby COremoval from a gaseous stream comprised of CO and COcan be accomplished during the humidification process in order to shift the water gas shift reaction toward the favorable forward reaction products.

Further it is an object of this disclosure to utilize a sorbent material for both COabsorption and humidification of the gaseous stream prior to entry into the WGS reactor and to further utilize the sorbent material for COcapture following exit from the WGS reactor in order to produce an enriched Hstream.

Further it is an object of this disclosure to conduct COabsorption gaseous stream humidification and COcapture following the WGS reactor using a sorbent regenerable to approximate WGS reactor temperature and pressure conditions in order to mitigate energy penalties associated with COcapture and sequestration.

Further it is an object of this disclosure to conduct COabsorption gaseous stream humidification and COcapture using a sorbent which tolerates HO in the gaseous stream in order to mitigate water removal requirements and allow operation of HO containing streams such as a syngas stream comprised H CO CO and HO.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The process as disclosed herein utilizes a hydroxide sorbent for humidification and COremoval from a gaseous stream comprised of CO and COprior to entry into a water gas shift reactor in order to decrease COconcentration and increase HO concentration and shift the water gas shift reaction toward the forward reaction products COand H. The disclosure further utilizes the hydroxide sorbent for absorption of COexiting the water gas shift reactor producing an enriched Hstream. The process further provides for regeneration of the hydroxide sorbent at temperature approximating water gas shift conditions and utilizing HO product liberated as a result of the COabsorption reducing energy requirements associated with the COcapture and sequestration and reducing water requirements for rehydroxylation during the regeneration.

Within this process a first gaseous stream comprised of CO and COcontacts a first hydroxide sorbent causing COto be absorbed and HO to be generated resulting in a second gaseous stream having a reduced COcontent and an increased HO content and providing more favorable conditions for the production of Hfrom the water gas shift reaction. The second gaseous stream enters a water gas shift reactor where the constituents CO and HO undergo the water gas shift reaction producing Hand CO. By virtue of contact with the hydroxide sorbent the reduced COcontent and the increased HO content of the second gaseous stream thereby provide more favorable conditions for the production of Hfrom the water gas shift reaction.

The water gas shift reactor exhausts a third gaseous stream and the third gaseous stream may contact a second hydroxide sorbent causing COto be absorbed and HO to be generated and producing a fourth gaseous stream having an increased concentration of Hand HO over the third gaseous stream. The HO in the fourth gaseous stream may be utilized for regeneration rehydroxylation of the first and second hydroxides in certain embodiments. Hin the fourth gaseous stream may be sent to a power island for combustion and subsequent power generation

COabsorption by the hydroxide sorbents forms a solid carbonate. In certain embodiments the solid carbonate is thermally decomposed to form an oxide and a gaseous CO. The disclosure further provides for the COcapture using a sorbent regenerable at approximate WGS reactor temperature and pressure conditions in order to mitigate energy penalties associated with COcapture and sequestration. Further sorbents utilized in certain embodiments tolerates HO in the gaseous stream and mitigates water removal requirements for operation on HO containing streams such as syngas streams comprised H CO CO and HO.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a process whereby a gaseous stream comprised of CO and COcontact a hydroxide sorbent to increase HO concentrations and decrease COconcentrations and thereby provide a more favorable equilibrium for subsequent Hproduction in a water gas shift reactor.

The disclosure herein describes a process whereby a first gaseous stream comprised of CO and COcontacts a hydroxide sorbent causing COto be absorbed and HO to be generated resulting in a second gaseous stream having a reduced COcontent and an increased HO content. The second gaseous stream enters a water gas shift reactor where the constituents CO and HO undergo the water gas shift reaction producing Hand CO. By virtue of contact with the hydroxide sorbent the reduced COcontent and the increased HO content of the second gaseous stream thereby provide more favorable conditions for the production of Hfrom the water gas shift reaction.

The water gas shift reactor exhausts a third gaseous stream and the third gaseous stream may contact a second hydroxide sorbent causing COto be absorbed and HO to be generated and producing a fourth gaseous stream having an increased concentration of Hand HO over the third gaseous stream. The HO in the fourth gaseous stream may be utilized for regeneration of the first and second hydroxides in certain embodiments.

COabsorption by the hydroxide sorbents forms a solid carbonate. In certain embodiments the solid carbonate is thermally decomposed to form an oxide and a gaseous CO. In certain embodiments the oxide is hydroxylated with steam and further with HO in the fourth gaseous stream. Following use in the rehydroxylation Hin the fourth gaseous stream is sent to a power island for combustion and subsequent power generation.

As is understood the water gas shift reaction in the water gas shift reactor is a moderately exothermic reversible reaction. The reaction is thermodynamically favored at low temperatures and kinetically favored at high temperatures. Since there is no change in the volume from reactants to products the reaction is not affected by pressure. The process is often divided into a low temperature shift and a high temperature shift however in hydrogen plants a single medium temperature shift reactor is frequently the preferred solution for optimisation of the hydrogen yield.

The water gas shift reactor facilitates a reaction in which carbon monoxide reacts with water vapor to form carbon dioxide and hydrogen CO HOCO H 1 

The reaction is reversible and the chemical equilibrium is subject to Le Chatelier s principle so that removal of COfrom the gas stream as well as increasing the HO concentration tends to drive the reaction toward the forward reaction products COand H. Additionally although stoichiometrically the reaction requires at least an HO to CO ratio of 1 to proceed higher ratios are typically used in order to avoid the appearance of secondary reactions such as methanation or CO disproportionation which may alter the selectivity to Hand CO and deactivate catalysts by carbon deposition. Steam to CO ratios of at least two are frequently required.

Generally speaking any mechanism for the removal of COdrives reaction 1 toward the forward reaction products of COand H. The disclosure herein utilizes a hydroxide sorbent for the removal of COfrom a gaseous stream prior to entering a water gas shift reactor where reaction 1 occurs. The hydroxide sorbent contacts COin the gaseous stream and under the appropriate temperature and pressure conditions forms a solid carbonate and water generated as steam M OH CO MCO HO 2 

where M is one or more elements comprising the alkaline and alkaline earth metals of the periodic table. Alkaline and alkaline earth metal hydroxides are known to be highly effective COabsorbers with varying solubility stability and basic strength depending on the alkaline or alkaline earth metal utilized. In a particular embodiment of this disclosure M is the alkaline earth metal magnesium. However the disclosure provided herein is not limited by the particular alkaline or alkaline earth metal utilized and it is understood that a particular alkaline or alkaline earth metal may be selected based on the prevailing conditions of the gaseous stream operationally present temperature and pressure conditions or other prevailing conditions within an integrated cycle. Within this disclosure it is only necessary that the alkaline or alkaline earth metal in the hydroxide sorbent provide for COabsorption and production of a solid carbonate and water based on contact between the hydroxide sorbent and a gaseous stream comprised of CO in accordance with reaction 2 .

The disclosure herein provides for COabsorption utilizing reaction 2 in order to reduce the COconcentration of a gaseous stream as well as increase the HO concentration of the gaseous stream so that a subsequent water gas shift reaction according to reaction 2 may occur under conditions more favorable for the production of the forward reaction products COand H. In an embodiment a second COabsorption occurs according to reaction 2 following the water gas shift of reaction 1 removing some portion of the COgenerated by reaction 1 and generating a more refined Hstream. Additionally the second COabsorption further liberates additional HO which may be utilized to mitigate HO requirements in a regeneration cycle requiring rehydroxylation following thermal decomposition of the solid carbonate to an oxide and a gaseous CO.

In the following descriptions and as used herein the term hydroxide sorbent and the term nhydroxide where nrefers to a sequential designator such as first second third etc. means an inorganic compound having the chemical formula or which results in the chemical formula M OH that forms a carbonate MCOon exposure to gaseous COunder prevailing temperature and pressure conditions and where M is one or more elements comprising the alkaline earth metals or alkaline metals of the periodic table beryllium Be magnesium Mg calcium Ca strontium Sr barium Ba radium Ra lithium Li sodium Na potassium K rubidium Rb caesium Cs and francium Fr .

Similarly in the following descriptions and as used herein the term oxide and the term noxide where nrefers to a sequential designator such as first second third etc. means a compound having the chemical formulate MO where M is comprised of elements comprising the alkaline earth metals or alkaline metals of the periodic table beryllium Be magnesium Mg calcium Ca strontium Sr barium Ba radium Ra lithium Li sodium Na potassium K rubidium Rb caesium Cs and francium Fr .

Similarly in the following descriptions and as used herein the term solid carbonate and the term nsolid carbonate where nrefers to a sequential designator such as first second third etc. means a compound having the chemical formulate MCO where M is comprised of elements comprising the alkaline earth metals or alkaline metals of the periodic table beryllium Be magnesium Mg calcium Ca strontium Sr barium Ba radium Ra lithium Li sodium Na potassium K rubidium Rb caesium Cs and francium Fr and where the solid carbonate thermally decomposes under sufficient temperature and pressure conditions to form an oxide MO and a gaseous CO.

Second gaseous stream is comprised of CO from first gaseous stream and generated steam resulting from the formation of the solid carbonate via reaction 2 . Second gaseous stream may be further comprised of CO however the amount is significantly reduced over that of first gaseous stream by the amount consumed in the formation of the solid carbonate. As a result the HO content of second gaseous stream is increased over first gaseous stream and the COcontent of second gaseous stream is decreased below first gaseous stream . The composition of second gaseous stream thereby presents a more favorable composition for the conversion of CO and HO to COand Hin a water gas shift reaction.

Second gaseous stream is discharged from absorption reactor to water gas shift reactor . Water gas shift reactor is under a temperature and pressure condition sufficient to generate the water gas shift reaction between the CO and generated steam comprising second gaseous stream and produces a COproduct and generated Hvia reaction 1 . A third gaseous stream is discharged from water gas shift reactor comprised of the generated Hand the COproduct. Third gaseous stream thus contains the Hgenerated by the water gas shift reaction and an increased amount of COas compared to second gaseous stream .

The process presented at thus provides a method whereby a hydroxide sorbent both removes COand favorably increases the HO CO ratio in a gaseous stream without the direct injection of HO into the gaseous stream shifting the water gas shift reaction within water gas shift reactor toward a more favorable equilibrium for increased Hproduction. The method avoids or mitigates the requirement for steam injection into the gaseous stream prior to water gas shift reactor and reduces or eliminates parasitic steam loading which may be negatively impacting the efficiency of an overarching process such as an IGCC plant utilizing a WGS reactor to maximize Hconversion in a syngas stream.

The first gaseous stream may be further comprised of some amount of existing Hand HO so that the process as described above acts to increase the concentration of HO prior to water gas shift reactor and increases the concentration of Hfollowing the water gas shift reactor while decreasing the concentration of COvia reaction 2 . For example first gaseous stream may be a syngas stream comprised primarily of H CO CO and HO and the resulting third gaseous stream may be shifted syngas comprised primarily of H CO and HO.

As discussed hydroxide sorbent may be any hydroxide which acts to absorb COand release HO according to reaction 2 under the conditions maintained in first absorption reactor . For example hydroxide sorbent may be an alkaline earth metal hydroxide. In a particular embodiment hydroxide sorbent is magnesium hydroxide Mg OH and contact between hydroxide sorbent and first gaseous stream occurs at a temperature from about 150 C. to about 315 C. In another embodiment the contact occurs at a pressure exceeding about 10 atmospheres.

First absorption reactor may be any vessel known in the art and sufficient to accept a gaseous stream initiate contact between the gaseous stream and the hydroxide sorbent contained within and discharge a gaseous stream subsequent to the contact while maintaining pressure and temperature conditions sufficient for reaction 2 to proceed as a result of the contact. For example first absorption reactor may be a packed or fluidized bed reactor or may incorporate moving beds for transport of hydroxide sorbent into and solid carbonate out of the absorption reactor. The absorption reactor may further be comprised of direct or indirect heat exchangers for the removal of exothermic heat generated as a result of reaction 2 . For example first absorption reactor may include an indirect heat exchanger removing exothermic heat via cooling water within the heat exchanger tubes. Within this method it is only necessary that first absorption reactor accept a gaseous stream facilitate contact between the gaseous stream and a sorbent operating and discharge a gaseous stream subsequent to the contact.

Water gas shift reactor may be any water gas shift reactor known in the art and sufficient to accept a gaseous stream maintain pressure and temperature conditions sufficient to drive a water gas shift described by reaction 1 toward the forward equilibrium products COand H and discharge a gaseous stream subsequent to the water gas shift reaction. Water gas shift reactor may incorporate any applicable water gas shift reaction catalysts such as iron or copper based catalysts or other catalysts as are known in the art. Water gas shift reactor may further be a water gas shift membrane reactor WGS MR incorporating selective membranes for a degree of in situ removal of Hor CO as are known in the art. Within this method it is only necessary that water gas shift reactor accept a gaseous stream maintain conditions sufficient to drive a water gas shift reaction in accordance with reaction 1 toward the forward equilibrium products COand H and discharge a gaseous stream subsequent to the water gas shift reaction.

In an embodiment the hydroxide sorbent is magnesium hydroxide and the first gaseous stream the first absorption reactor and the water gas shift reactor are maintained at a temperature from about 150 C. to about 315 C. However the temperature and pressure of the first gaseous stream the first absorption reactor and the water gas shift reactor are not limiting within this method provided that the temperatures and pressures maintained allow reaction 2 to occur within first absorption reactor and reaction 1 to occur in water gas shift reactor in the forward direction.

In a process operation hydroxide sorbent may be deposited into and the solid carbonate removed from the first absorption reactor in a batch or continuous fashion. In the embodiment illustrated at the hydroxide sorbent enters first absorption reactor at inlet and the resulting solid carbonate exits at outlet in a continuous fashion. Transport via inlet and outlet may be accomplished in a variety of ways including moving bed arrangements fluidized transfer of pellets or other means known to those skilled in the art.

It is understood that the material exiting at outlet may be comprised of both the solid carbonate and unreacted hydroxide sorbent and that the production of the solid carbonate within first absorption reactor depends largely on the sorbent utilization factor for hydroxide sorbent . The sorbent utilization factor communicates the accessibility of the active hydroxide sites within the hydroxide sorbent so that solid carbonate may result from reaction 2 . Those skilled in the art recognize that the sorbent utilization factor may be impacted by a variety of factors within first absorption reactor and that maximizing the sorbent utilization factor is desired in order to maximize the COabsorbed and minimize the quantity of hydroxide sorbent required. However the process as disclosed herein is not limited by a specific sorbent utilization factor arising from conditions within first absorption reactor . Within this process it is only necessary that the sorbent utilization factor is sufficient so that some portion of the COin first gaseous stream reacts with some portion of hydroxide sorbent to form the solid carbonate.

In a particular embodiment of the method as illustrated at first absorption reactor is maintained at a temperature of about 210 C. and a pressure of about 280 psig and hydroxide sorbent is magnesium hydroxide. First gaseous stream is a syngas stream comprised of approximately 27.2 CO 11.9 CO 26.5 H and 34.4 HO where quantities are represented as mole percentages. First gaseous stream enters first absorption reactor and contacts hydroxide sorbent and reaction X absorbs COand produces HO as a generated stream producing second gaseous stream possessing increased HO and decreased CO. In this embodiment second gaseous stream is comprised of 27.2 CO 0.6 CO 26.5 H and 45.7 HO. Second gaseous stream enters water gas shift reactor and undergoes reaction 1 producing third gaseous stream comprised of 0.2 CO 27.6 CO 53.5 H and 18.7 HO. In this embodiment first gaseous stream second gaseous stream and third gaseous stream have a total molar flow of 31 160 548 moles per hour mol h and the magnesium hydroxide serving as hydroxide sorbent enters first absorption reactor at a rate of 972 992 kilograms per hour kg h . A 31 sorbent utilization factor is assumed which was observed in experimental testing.

In a further embodiment illustrated at a first gaseous stream contacts a first hydroxide sorbent in a first absorption reactor as described above producing a first solid carbonate and a first water product according to reaction 2 and producing a second gaseous stream having increased HO and being substantially free of CO. First hydroxide sorbent enters first absorption reactor at inlet and the resulting solid carbonate exits at outlet in a continuous fashion. As before second gaseous stream then enters water gas shift reactor to produce a third gaseous stream comprised primarily of Hand COvia reaction 1 . In order to enrich the stream further the third gaseous stream enters second absorption reactor containing second hydroxide sorbent . Third gaseous stream contacts second hydroxide sorbent in second absorption reactor and second absorption reactor maintains a temperature and pressure condition such that the contact between third gaseous stream and second hydroxide sorbent produces a second solid carbonate and a second water product where the temperature condition is such that the water product exists as a generated steam. Within absorption reactor contact between third gaseous stream and second hydroxide sorbent thus substantially removes COin third gaseous stream through formation of the second solid carbonate in accordance with reaction 2 . This contact results in fourth gaseous stream comprised primarily of Hand HO. The second absorption reactor thus serves to remove COfrom the product of the water gas shift reactor further enriching the fourth gaseous stream for Hproduction.

In the embodiment illustrated at the first and second absorption reactors in conjunction with the water gas shift reactor act in a coordinated manner to optimize Hproduction from a gaseous stream comprised of CO and CO. Contact with a first hydroxide sorbent removes COand increases the HO concentration in the gaseous stream establishing concentrations among the gaseous constituents which establish a more favorable equilibrium for the forward reaction products of the subsequent water gas shift reaction. Following the water gas shift reaction where Hand COare produced contact with the second hydroxide sorbent removes COgenerated in the WGS reactor resulting in an enriched Hstream. The addition of HO and the removal of COis accomplished via reaction 2 which absorbs COand liberates HO in the process of forming a solid carbonate. As before the first gaseous stream may be further comprised of some amount of existing Hand HO so that the process as described above acts to increase the concentration of HO prior to water gas shift reactor and increase the concentration of Hfollowing the water gas shift reactor while decreasing the concentration of COvia reaction 2 . For example first gaseous stream may be a syngas stream comprised primarily of H CO CO and HO such that the third gaseous stream is a shifted syngas comprised primarily of H CO and HO and such that fourth gaseous stream is a concentrated Hstream comprised primarily of Hand HO.

Similar to the first hydroxide sorbent the second hydroxide sorbent may be any hydroxide which acts to absorb COand releases HO under the conditions maintained in the second absorption reactor . Second hydroxide sorbent may have the same composition as first hydroxide sorbent or may differ in composition. In a particular embodiment second hydroxide sorbent is magnesium hydroxide Mg OH . Further within this method in embodiments where both a first absorption reactor and a second absorption reactor are utilized and where segregation of the first and second hydroxide sorbents is maintained following COexposure in the first and second absorption reactors it is not necessary that the first hydroxide sorbent and the second hydroxide sorbent be materials having substantially the same composition provided that in both the first absorption reactor and the second absorption reactor the first and second hydroxide sorbents act to absorb COand release HO via reaction 2 under the prevailing conditions. In a particular embodiment the first hydroxide sorbent and the second hydroxide sorbent are magnesium hydroxide.

Similar to the first absorption vessel the second absorption vessel may be any vessel known in the art and sufficient to accept a gaseous stream initiate contact between the gaseous stream and the hydroxide sorbent contained within and discharge a gaseous stream subsequent to the contact while maintaining pressure and temperature conditions sufficient for reaction 2 to proceed as a result of the contact. Additionally second hydroxide sorbent may be utilized in second absorption reactor in a batch or continuous fashion. In the embodiment illustrated at the second hydroxide sorbent enters second absorption reactor at second inlet and the resulting second solid carbonate exits at second outlet in a continuous fashion. Transport may be accomplished in a variety of ways including moving bed arrangements fluidized transfer of pellets or other means known to those skilled in the art. Further similar to the first absorption vessel the material exiting at second outlet may be comprised of both second solid carbonate and unreacted second hydroxide sorbent with the extent depending on the sorbent utilization factor for second hydroxide sorbent .

As discussed the COabsorption occurring within first absorption reactor and second absorption reactor via reaction 2 is an exothermic process and heat transfer from first absorption reactor and second absorption reactor may be required in order to maintain the COabsorption conditions necessary. When utilized in this method the heat transfers may be accomplished using a variety of heat sink means known in the art. For example the heat sink could be a coolant fluid in a heat exchanger another process technology requiring heat at about or less than the temperature of adsorption or simply the atmosphere. Non absorbed components of the respective gas streams which contact the hydroxide sorbents may also remove some exothermic heat during adsorption.

In a particular embodiment of the method as illustrated at first absorption reactor and second absorption reactor are maintained at a temperature of about 210 C. and a pressure of about 280 psig and first hydroxide sorbent and second hydroxide sorbent is magnesium hydroxide. First gaseous stream is a syngas stream comprised of approximately 27.2 CO 11.9 CO 26.5 H and 34.4 HO where quantities are represented as mole percentages. First gaseous stream enters first absorption reactor and second gaseous stream comprised of 27.2 CO 0.6 CO 26.5 H and 45.7 HO is discharged. Second gaseous stream enters water gas shift reactor and undergoes reaction 1 producing third gaseous stream comprised of 0.2 CO 27.6 CO 53.5 H and 18.7 HO. Third gaseous stream enters second absorption reactor and fourth gaseous stream comprised of 53.5.5 Hand 44.8 HO is discharged. In this embodiment first gaseous stream second gaseous stream third gaseous stream and fourth gaseous stream have a total molar flow of 31 160 548 mol h the first hydroxide sorbent enters first absorption reactor at a rate of 972 992 kg h and the second hydroxide sorbent enters the second absorption reactor at a rate of 2 042 574 kg h. A 31 sorbent utilization factor is assumed which was observed in experimental testing.

In a further embodiment the first and second hydroxide sorbents are regenerable COsorbents such that the COabsorbed in the first and second absorption reactions may be released during regeneration and a concentrated gaseous COstream may be generated. One appropriate regenerable cycle for use in conjunction with the method of this disclosure is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 720 766 filed Mar. 10 2010 and incorporated herein by reference. This process is represented generally at .

Briefly illustrates an absorption reactor a regeneration reactor and a polishing reactor . Absorption reactor is analogous to first absorption reactor or second absorption reactor discussed earlier. Absorption reactor contains a hydroxide sorbent receives a first gaseous stream comprised of CO and CO and produces second gaseous stream comprised largely of CO and HO and possibly some remaining unabsorbed CO. As a result second gaseous stream has a higher HO content and reduced COcontent as compared to first gaseous stream . At hydroxide sorbent enters absorption reactor through absorption reactor inlet contacts first gaseous stream undergoes reaction 2 and solid carbonate exits absorption reactor through absorption reactor exit . The solid carbonate exiting through absorption reactor exit may also be comprised of some portion of the unreacted hydroxide sorbent depending on the sorbent utilization factor in absorption reactor . In an embodiment the hydroxide sorbent is Mg OH and the absorption reactor is maintained at a temperature of from about 150 C. to about 315 C. and a pressure greater than about 10 atmospheres.

Having exited absorption reactor the solid carbonate is transferred to regeneration reactor . Regeneration reactor establishes contact between the solid carbonate within regeneration reactor and a steam flow received from steam inlet . Within regeneration reactor the reactions 3 and 4 are expected and reaction 5 may also occur MCO MO CO 3 MO HO M OH 4 MCO HO M OH CO 5 

where M is the metal comprising the hydroxide sorbent utilized for CO2 absorption via reaction 2 in absorption reactor .

The steam flow provides heat duty for the decomposition of solid carbonate to an oxide and gaseous COvia reaction 3 or via reaction 5 to a hydroxide and gaseous CO and further provides HO to hydroxylate a portion of the oxide to the hydroxide via reaction 4 . Additionally the steam flow serves to flush liberated COout of regeneration reactor through COdischarge path . As a result a stream of concentrated COand HO is produced via COdischarge path . In an embodiment the hydroxide sorbent is Mg OH and the regeneration reactor is maintained at a temperature of greater than about 375 C. and a pressure greater than about 10 atmospheres.

The hydroxide and the remaining oxide are transferred from regeneration reactor to polishing reactor via transfer path to complete rehydroxylation and fully regenerate the hydroxide sorbent. Polishing reactor receives rehydroxylation stream comprised of HO and provides a temperature and pressure condition more favorable for the complete rehydroxylation of the remaining oxide. In an embodiment the hydroxide sorbent is Mg OH and the polishing reactor is maintained at a temperature of from about 150 C. to about 315 C. and a pressure greater than about 10 atmospheres. In another embodiment rehydroxylation stream is comprised of second gaseous stream so that HO liberated by the absorption of COin absorption reactor is utilized for rehydroxylation in polishing reactor and so that rehydroxylation stream is further comprised of the Hcontained in second gaseous stream . In this embodiment the rehydroxylation reaction in polishing reactor reduces the HO concentration and the Hand some remaining HO are discharged as a fuel stream through fuel exit . Concurrently a regenerated hydroxide sorbent exits polishing reactor through polishing reactor exit . The regenerated hydroxide sorbent is recycled back to absorption reactor for reuse in a cyclical process. Rehydroxylation stream may additionally be comprised of excess steam not utilized by a component operating externally to such as a WGS reactor.

Such a process as described generally above and specifically in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 720 766 may be utilized in conjunction with the method of this disclosure in order to produce Hfrom syngas using a water gas shift reactor while providing a dense COrich stream for sequestration or other purposes. It is understood however that within this disclosure when a regenerable sorbent cycle such as that illustrated at is utilized the hydroxide sorbent may be any alkaline or alkaline earth metal hydroxide provided that reaction 2 occurs to some degree within absorption reactor and reactions 3 and 4 occur to some degree within regeneration reactor as a result of the steam flow received from steam inlet and reaction 4 occurs to some degree within polishing reactor as a result of rehydroxylation stream .

When a regenerable COsorbent is utilized in conjunction with the method described herein the regeneration cycle such as that depicted at may be solely dedicated to a first absorption reactor or a second absorption reactor or when feasible elements within the regeneration cycle may serve combined duty. As an example illustrates a similar cycle to that depicted at where a regeneration cycle serves a first absorption reactor and a second absorption reactor in an embodiment of the disclosed method utilizing both a first and second absorption reactor for the production of an enriched Hstream. At first absorption reactor receives first gaseous stream comprised of CO and CO and contains first hydroxide sorbent comprised of a first hydroxide. First hydroxide sorbent enters first absorption reactor at inlet . As previously discussed first absorption reactor discharges second gaseous stream with increased HO content and reduced COcontent to water gas shift reactor where His generated via reaction 1 producing Hand COin third gaseous stream . Third gaseous stream enters second absorption reactor containing second hydroxide sorbent comprised of a second hydroxide entering at second inlet and fourth gaseous stream is discharged. Fourth gaseous stream is primarily comprised of Hand HO. In an embodiment the first hydroxide sorbent and the second hydroxide sorbent are Mg OH and the first absorption reactor and the second absorption reactor are maintained at a temperature of from about 150 C. to about 315 C. and a pressure greater than about 10 atmospheres.

At where first absorption reactor contains first hydroxide sorbent and second absorption reactor contains second hydroxide sorbent absorption of COproduces first solid carbonate in first absorption reactor and second solid carbonate in second absorption reactor via reaction 2 as discussed previously. In this embodiment first hydroxide sorbent and second hydroxide sorbent are substantially identical compositionally such that the first and second solid carbonates produced via reaction 2 are similarly identical compositionally. The first solid carbonate is then transferred from first absorption reactor to regeneration reactor via first absorption reactor exit and the second solid carbonate is transferred from second absorption reactor to regeneration reactor via second absorption reactor exit . Transport may be accomplished in a variety of ways including moving bed arrangements fluidized transfer of pellets or other means known to those skilled in the art.

Regeneration reactor receives a steam flow from steam inlet providing heat duty for solid carbonate decomposition and rehydroxylation of some portion of the decomposition products back to the composition of the hydroxide sorbent as before. Within regeneration reactor the first solid carbonate decomposes via reaction 3 to produce a first oxide and gaseous CO generating a first separation stream within regeneration reactor where the first separation stream comprises the gaseous COfrom the first solid carbonate. Additionally the second solid carbonate decomposes via reaction 3 to produce a second oxide and gaseous CO generating a second separation stream within regeneration reactor where the second separation stream comprises the gaseous COfrom the second solid carbonate. Some portion of the first and second solid carbonates may also decompose via reaction 5 . The steam flow further serves to flush the gaseous COout of regeneration reactor through COdischarge path thereby withdrawing the first separation stream and the second separation stream from regeneration reactor and producing a stream of concentrated COand HO via COdischarge path . Additionally the steam flow provides HO for rehydroxylating a portion of the first oxide to form a third hydroxide and for rehydroxylating a portion of the second oxide to form a fourth hydroxide.

The regeneration reactor thus contains a partially regenerated sorbent comprised of the third hydroxide a remaining first oxide the fourth hydroxide and a remaining second oxide. In an embodiment the third and fourth hydroxides are Mg OH the remaining first and second oxides are MgO and the regeneration reactor is maintained at a temperature of greater than about 375 C. and a pressure greater than about 10 atmospheres.

The partially regenerated sorbent is then transferred from regeneration reactor to polishing reactor via regeneration reactor exit . Polishing reactor further receives a rehydroxylation stream comprised of HO. In the embodiment shown the hydroxylation stream is comprised of the fourth gaseous stream and contains Hand HO remaining subsequent to the COabsorption in second absorption reactor . Within polishing reactor the HO present in rehydroxylation stream more fully rehydroxylates the partially regenerated sorbent such that the first remaining oxide forms a fifth magnesium hydroxide and the second remaining oxide forms a sixth magnesium hydroxide. Polishing reactor thus contains a regenerated sorbent comprised of the third magnesium hydroxide and the fourth magnesium hydroxide produced by rehydroxylation in regeneration reactor and further comprised of the fifth magnesium hydroxide and the sixth magnesium hydroxide rehydroxylated in polishing reactor . In an embodiment the third fourth fifth and sixth hydroxides are Mg OH the remaining first and second oxides are MgO and the polishing reactor is maintained at a temperature of from about 150 C. to about 315 C. and a pressure greater than about 10 atmospheres. The regenerated sorbent is then transferred to the first absorption reactor and the second absorption reactor for continued service in the cyclic process.

In the embodiment shown at as rehydroxylation stream comprised of Hand HO from fourth gaseous stream passes through polishing reactor rehydroxylation of the first remaining oxide and the second remaining oxide reduces the HO content. Following the rehydroxylation a fuel stream comprised of the Hand a reduced amount of HO is discharged from polishing reactor to a power island where the Hin the fuel stream may be utilized for the generation of electrical power. At power island also provides steam for the steam injection through steam inlet . The power island may be for example an IGCC plant generating steam as a result of syngas cooling and generating electrical power from the combustion of hydrogen.

It is understood that in embodiments such as illustrated at the terms first hydroxide second solid carbonate and the like are not intended to indicate a chemical composition but are merely intended to indicated the origin of a compound. Within this disclosure a first hydroxide is a hydroxide participating in reaction 2 in a first absorption reactor a second hydroxide is a hydroxide participating in reaction 2 in a second absorption reactor a third hydroxide is a hydroxide created by reaction 4 resulting from a first oxide exposed to steam in a regeneration reactor a fourth hydroxide is a hydroxide created by reaction 4 resulting from a second oxide exposed to steam in a regeneration reactor a fifth hydroxide is a hydroxide created by reaction 4 resulting from a first remaining oxide exposed to a rehydroxylation stream in a polishing reactor and a sixth hydroxide is a hydroxide created by reaction 4 resulting from a second remaining oxide exposed to a rehydroxylation stream in a polishing reactor. Similarly a first solid carbonate refers to a carbonate produced from COand a first hydroxide from reaction 2 in a first absorption reactor and a second solid carbonate refers to a carbonate produced from COand a second hydroxide from reaction 2 in a second absorption reactor. Similarly a first oxide refers to an oxide produced by the thermal decomposition of a first hydroxide via reaction 3 in a regeneration reactor and a second oxide refers to an oxide produced by the thermal decomposition of a second hydroxide via reaction 3 in a regeneration reactor.

In an embodiment the first second third fourth fifth and sixth hydroxides have the chemical composition Mg OH the first and second solid carbonates have the chemical composition MgCO and the first and second oxides and the first and second remaining oxides have the chemical composition MgO.

As before first gaseous stream may be further comprised of some amount of existing Hand HO so that the process as described above acts to increase the concentration of HO prior to water gas shift reactor and increase the concentration of Hfollowing the water gas shift reactor while decreasing the concentration of COvia reaction 2 . For example first gaseous stream may be a syngas stream comprised primarily of H CO CO and HO such that the third gaseous stream is a shifted syngas comprised primarily of H CO and HO and such that fourth gaseous stream is a concentrated Hstream comprised primarily of Hand HO and such that the fuel stream is a concentrated stream comprised of Hand a reduced amount of HO.

It is further understood that in an embodiment such as illustrated at heat transfer operations may be required in order to maintain temperature and pressure conditions sufficient for reactions 1 through 4 to proceed as described. For example in an embodiment utilizing magnesium hydroxide as first hydroxide sorbent and second hydroxide sorbent COabsorption in first absorption reactor and second absorption reactor may occur at an approximate temperature of about 210 C. while COliberation via steam flow may occur in regeneration reactor at an approximate temperature of about 400 C. and final rehydroxylation may occur in polishing reactor at an approximate temperature of about 210 C. As a result during transfer of materials through the cycle indirect heat exchange may be utilized to increase the efficiency of the process. For example an indirect heat exchange may occur between the solid magnesium carbonate at approximately 210 C. being transferred to the regeneration reactor and the concentrated COstream at approximately 400 C. exiting the regeneration reactor so that the solid magnesium carbonate may be heated to a temperature closer to the regeneration temperature required and heat duty requirements for the steam injected into the regeneration reactor can be reduced. Similarly the solid magnesium carbonate may undergo indirect heat exchange with the partially regenerated sorbent at approximately 400 C. transferred from the regeneration reactor to the polishing reactor reducing the heat duty required in the regeneration reactor and reducing any necessary heat transfer from the lower temperature polishing reactor. Heat exchange between the polishing reactor and the regeneration reactor via a heat transfer medium such as liquid water may also serve to both remove exothermic heat from the polishing reactor as reaction 4 proceeds and provide a portion of the necessary heat duty in the regeneration reactor to drive reaction 3 or reaction 5 .

In a particular embodiment of the method as illustrated at first absorption reactor and second absorption reactor are maintained at a temperature of about 210 C. and a pressure of about 280 psig and first hydroxide sorbent and second hydroxide sorbent are magnesium hydroxide. First gaseous stream is a syngas stream comprised of approximately 27.2 CO 11.9 CO 26.5 H and 34.4 HO where quantities are represented as mole percentages. First gaseous stream enters first absorption reactor and second gaseous stream comprised of 27.2 CO 0.6 CO 26.5 H and 45.7 HO is discharged. Second gaseous stream enters water gas shift reactor and undergoes reaction 1 producing third gaseous stream comprised of 0.2 CO 27.6 CO 53.5 H and 18.7 HO. Third gaseous stream enters second absorption reactor and fourth gaseous stream comprised of 53.5.5 Hand 44.8 HO is discharged. In this embodiment first gaseous stream second gaseous stream third gaseous stream and fourth gaseous stream have a total molar flow of approximately 31 160 548 mol h the first hydroxide sorbent enters first absorption reactor at a rate of 881 333 kg h and the second hydroxide sorbent enters the second absorption reactor at a rate of 2 042 574 kg h. A 31 sorbent utilization factor is assumed which was observed experimentally.

In the preceding embodiment regeneration reactor is maintained at a temperature of about 400 C. and a pressure of about 280 psig. First solid carbonate and second solid carbonate from first absorption reactor and second absorption reactor respectively are transferred to regeneration reactor as MgCOat a rate of 3 227 994 kg h. Steam flow enters regeneration reactor through from steam inlet at a temperature of 550 C. a pressure of approximately 280 psig and a rate of approximately 180 000 kg h. Within regeneration reactor the steam flow provides heat duty for the decomposition of MgCOto MgO and partial rehydroxylation and partially regenerated sorbent comprised of approximately 50 Mg OH and 50 MgO exits regeneration reactor via regeneration reactor exit at a rate of approximately 2 803 596 kg h. Concurrently a concentrated COstream comprised of 87 COand 13 HO exits regeneration reactor via COdischarge path at a rate of approximately 589 347 kg h.

In the preceding embodiment polishing reactor receives the partially regenerated sorbent via regeneration reactor exit at a rate of 2 803 596 kg h and further receives fourth gaseous stream comprised of 53.5.5 Hand 44.8 HO at a rate of 31 171 436 mol h or 305 982 kg h. Polishing reactor utilizes the water product in gaseous stream for rehydroxylation of the remaining magnesium oxide in partially regenerated sorbent . Following the rehydroxylation a regenerated Mg OH sorbent exits via polishing reactor exit at a rate of 2 923 907 kg h of which 881 333 kg h is returned to first absorption reactor and 2 042 574 kg h is returned to second absorption reactor for reuse in the cyclic COabsorption cycle. Concurrently fuel stream comprised of approximately 66 H 32 HO balance COand CO discharges approximately 16 930 140 mol h 130 784 kg h Hto power island .

Thus the disclosure herein utilizes a hydroxide sorbent for humidification and COremoval from a gaseous stream comprised of CO and COprior to entry into a water gas shift reactor in order to decrease COconcentration and increase HO concentration and shift the water gas shift reaction toward the forward reaction products COand H. The disclosure further utilizes the hydroxide sorbent for absorption of COexiting the water gas shift reactor producing an enriched Hstream. The process further provides for regeneration of the hydroxide sorbent at temperature approximating water gas shift conditions and utilizing HO product liberated as a result of the COabsorption reducing energy requirements associated with the COcapture and sequestration and reducing water requirements for rehydroxylation during the regeneration.

Accordingly the disclosure provides a process whereby a gaseous stream comprised of CO and COcan be humidified prior to entering a WGS reactor in order to reduce or eliminate parasitic steam injection into the gaseous stream.

Further the disclosure provides a process whereby CO2 removal from a gaseous stream comprised of CO and COcan be accomplished during the humidification process in order to shift the water gas shift reaction toward the favorable forward reaction products.

Further the disclosure provides for utilizing a sorbent material for both COabsorption and humidification of the gaseous stream prior to entry into the WGS reactor and further utilizing the sorbent material for COcapture following exit from the WGS reactor in order to produce an enriched Hstream.

Further the disclosure provides for conducting COabsorption gaseous stream humidification and COcapture following the WGS reactor using a sorbent regenerable at approximate WGS reactor temperature and pressure conditions in order to mitigate energy penalties associated with COcapture and sequestration.

Further the disclosure provides for conducting COabsorption gaseous stream humidification and COcapture using a sorbent which tolerates HO in the gaseous stream in order to mitigate water removal requirements and allow operation of HO containing streams such as a syngas stream comprised H CO CO and HO.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

