---

title: Method and system for accessing web pages based on playback of recordings
abstract: Entertainment content complementary to a musical recording is delivered to a user's computer by a computer network link. The user employs a browser to access the computer network. A plug-in for the browser is able to control an audio CD or other device for playing the musical recording. A script stored on the remote computer accessed over the network is downloaded. The script synchronizes the delivery of the complementary entertainment content with the play of the musical recording.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945645&OS=07945645&RS=07945645
owner: Gracenote, Inc.
number: 07945645
owner_city: Emeryville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100112
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 841 784 filed Aug. 20 2007 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 820 722 filed Mar. 30 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 308 485 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 354 166 filed Jul. 16 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 230 192 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 060 876 filed Apr. 15 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 154 773 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 838 082 filed Apr. 15 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 987 525 all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Described below are methods and systems relating to the field of computer networking and more particularly to the use of network protocols to provide services to users which are related to audio recordings.

Over the past few years on line services have experienced explosive growth and have become a major new form of entertainment. Alongside this new entertainment more traditional forms such as musical recordings have continued to be consumed on a massive scale.

The traditional experience of the musical recording is listening by a small group of persons gathered together in a room. The music fills the room acoustically but there is little associated visual content and there is only a limited interaction with the recording consisting essentially of deciding which tracks to play and performing simple transformations on the recorded sound such as setting the volume or applying an audio equalizer. This traditional experience dates back to the early age of 78 r.p.m. musical recordings almost a century ago.

The traditional production of a musical recording complements the traditional experience of the recording. The recording is produced in a number of recording sessions subject to careful mixing and editing and then released to the public. At that point the recording is in a fixed form nowadays an audio CD whose purpose is to record as faithfully as possible the final sonic experience designed by its authors the musicians producer and recording engineers.

Music videos have supplemented the traditional experience of musical recordings by allowing the association of visual content with tracks of such a recording. In practice however music videos have been broadcast with all the problems of lack of user control which that implies and they have not contributed to interactivity or participation by the consumer.

On line services offer opportunities for enriching the experience associated with musical recordings. The present invention is addressed to computer programs systems and protocols which can fulfill this promise.

An aspect is to provide computer programs systems and protocols which allow producers to deliver entertainment complementary to musical recordings by on line services such as the Internet. It is a further aspect to provide computer programs systems and protocols which allow such complementary entertainment to be meaningfully interactive for the consumer such that the consumer can also be a creator of the experience.

Another aspect is to achieve the foregoing by implementations designed to attain integration with existing environments and programs particularly on the Internet while retaining the flexibility to adapt to the continuing evolution of standards for on line services.

In one of the aspects software is provided which permits a computer program running on a remote host to control a compact disc CD player DVD player or the like on a user s computer. For convenience we use the term CD player to refer also to DVD players and similar devices. The software is designed to permit the remote host both to initiate actions on the CD player and to become aware of actions which the user has initiated by other controls such as the buttons on the CD player s front panel or a different CD player control program. This aspect is a building block for the provision of complementary entertainment for musical recordings when those recordings are fixed in the prevailing contemporary form the audio CD.

In a second aspect visual content including interactive content may be delivered over an on line service in such a way that it is synchronized to the delivery of content from a musical recording. Such visual content may for example be synchronized to the playing of an audio CD in the user s computer. The visual content is thematically linked to the musical recording for example in the manner of a music video.

In a third aspect a method is provided for assigning a unique identifier to musical recordings consisting of a number of tracks. A unique identifier is a useful complement to the delivery of visual content in conjunction with the playing of an audio CD in that it allows the software which delivers the visual content to be sure that the audio CD is in fact the correct CD to which the visual content corresponds. If the visual content is designed for example to accompany the Rosary Sonatas of Heinrich Ignaz Franz Biber it would presumably not function well if the CD in the user s player were the soundtrack for the film Mary Poppins. The unique identifier also allows a CD to be used as a key to access a premium Web area. Furthermore the unique identifier can allow the user to be directed to an area of the Web corresponding to the CD which is in the user s machine.

In a fourth aspect the immensely popular on line service generally referred to as a chat room may be enhanced by a link to a musical recording to which all persons in the room are listening. The chat room experience as it exists today in on line services has a disembodied quality by comparison with traditional face to face social encounters in which there are identifiable surroundings. The only common experience to the chat users today are the words of the chat as they fly by on a computer screen and perhaps the user icons avatars or other visual content occupying a small space on the screen. The use of a musical recording in conjunction with a chat room opens up the possibility of restoring to the experience a degree of the shared ambience of traditional social encounters. Furthermore the musical recording offers a focal point that allows chat seekers to group together by shared interests in a particular type of recording.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.

The preferred embodiment operates on the World Wide Web. The software implementation environment provided by the World Wide Web is described in a number of books for example John December Mark Ginsburg HTML 3.2 and CGI Unleashed 1996 . The World Wide Web is based on a network protocol called HTTP hypertext transfer protocol which is described in T. Berners Lee et al. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HYTP 1.0 Internet Request for Comments No. 1945 1996 . The HTTP protocol must be run atop a general connection oriented protocol which today is generally TCP IP described in Douglas E. Comer Internetworking with TCP IP 3d ed. 1995 . However the method and system described here are not limited to HTTP running over any particular kind of network software or hardware. The principles apply to other protocols for access to remote information that may come to compete with or supplant HTTP.

As shown in a Web user sits at his or her computer and runs a computer program called a browser. The browser sends out HTTP requests to other computers referred to as servers. In requests particular items of data referred to as resources which are available on servers are referred to by uniform resource locators URL s character strings in a particular format defined in Berners Lee et al. supra. A URL includes both an identification of the server and an identification of a particular item of data within the server. Reacting to the requests the servers return responses to the user s browser and the browser acts upon those responses generally by displaying some sort of content to the user.

The content portion of the responses can be a Web page expressed in the hypertext markup language HTML . That language allows one to express content consisting of text interspersed with bitmap format images and links also known as anchors and hyperlinks . The links are further URL s to which the browser may at the users prompting send further requests.

The responses can also include more complex commands to be interpreted by the browser e.g. commands which result in an animation. HTML itself does not define complex commands but rather they are considered to belong to separately defined scripting languages of which the two most common ones are JavaScript and VBScript.

In addition to extending the function of the browser by code written in a scripting language it is also possible to extend the function of a browser with compiled code. Such compiled code is referred to as a plug in. The precise protocol for writing a plug in is dependent on the particular browser. Plug ins for the Microsoft browser are referred to by the name of ActiveX controls.

Plug ins may be very complex. A plug in which may advantageously be used is Shockwave from Macromedia. It permits animations which are part of a server response to be downloaded and played to the user. Shockwave defines its own scripting language called Lingo. Lingo scripts are contained within the downloadable animations which the Shockwave plug in can play. The general format of a Shockwave animation is a timeline consisting of a series of frames together with a number of visual objects which appear perform motions and disappear at particular frames within the timeline. To achieve more complex effects within a Shockwave animation Lingo scripts may be invoked in addition to predefined visual objects.

A preferred embodiment employs a plug in referred to as the command plug in which provides to a scripting language the ability to command in a detailed fashion the playing of a musical recording. The command plug in should provide at a minimum the following basic functions 

 5 Get information regarding the CD e.g. the number of tracks their lengths the pauses between tracks .

Other functions may be provided limited only by what the underlying operating system services are able to provide.

The command plug in is preferably written in a conventional programming language such as C . The plug in must conform to the existing standards for plug ins such as those required of Microsoft ActiveX objects. In order to obtain the information and carry out the functions which the command plug in makes available to the scripting language the command plug in relies on functions which provide control and information regarding the playing musical recording. These functions will depend on the precise source of the recording. If as in the currently preferred embodiment the recording is being played on an audio CD in the computer CD player and if the browser is running under Microsoft Windows 3.1 or Windows 95 these functions would be the MCI functions which form a part of the Win32 application programming interface. These functions are documented for example in Microsoft Win32 Programmer s Reference. Different functions may be provided by streaming audio receivers as for example receivers which capture audio which is coming into the user s computer over a network connection in a suitable audio encoding format such as MPEG.

An important point to note about the implementation of the command plug in is that the operations which it carries out as for example seeks may take times on the order of a second. It is undesirable for the command plug in to retain control of the machine during that interval so it is important that the plug in relinquish control of the machine to the browser whenever a lengthy operation is undertaken and report on the results of the operation via the asynchronous event handling capability used in the common scripting languages.

Given the above summary of the functions which the command plug in provides a general knowledge of how to write plug ins e.g. of how to writeActiveX objects and a knowledge of the relevant application programming interface for controlling the play of the musical recording e.g. MCI in Win32 a person skilled in the art could readily and without undue experimentation develop an actual working command plug in. For this reason further details of how the command plug in is implemented are not provided here.

The existence of a command plug in providing the functions listed above to a scripting language is a foundation on which entertainment complementary to a musical recording may be constructed. In particular it is possible to devise building on this foundation a method for synchronizing the display of visual content by the scripting language with the events which are occurring on the audio CD.

In a preferred embodiment the synchronization of the visual content to the audio CD proceeds as follows. The visual content is provided by a Shockwave animation which is downloaded from the server and displayed for the user by a Shockwave plug in. This downloading may take place before the animation is displayed or alternatively it may take place as the animation is being displayed provided the user s connection to the network is fast enough to support download at an appropriate speed. The downloading is a function provided by the Shockwave plug in itself.

As the Shockwave animation is played a Lingo script executes each time a frame finishes displaying. The Lingo script contains a description of the relationship which should exist between frames of the animation and segments of the musical recording identified by track number and by time. The Lingo script determines by using the command plug in described above at which track and time the play of the audio CD is. It then refers to the description in order to determine which frames of the animation correspond to that portion of the audio CD. If the current frame is not one of those frames the Lingo script resets the time line of the animation so that the animation will begin to play at the frame which corresponds to the current position of the audio CD. This permits the visual content to catch up if it ever lags the CD for example because downloading from the network has fallen behind because the user s computer lacks the cycles to play the animation at full speed or because the user has fast forwarded the CD.

In a variant form of this synchronization algorithm shown in the frames of the animation are arranged into groups of contiguous frames. A correspondence is established between each such group of frames and a particular segment of the audio recording box in . At the end of each frame of the animation the audio play position is determined box . A test is done to determine whether the audio play position is within the segment of the recording that corresponds to the group of frames to which the next sequential frame belongs box . If the audio play position is within that segment the playback of the animation proceeds with that next frame box . If the audio play position is not within that segment then the playback of the animation is advanced to the frame corresponding to where the audio is boxes and .

A further aspect is the ability by making use of the command plug in to provide a technique for establishing a unique identifier for an audio CD which is located in the user s CD player. The unique identifier may be based on the number and lengths of the tracks measured in blocks i.e. 1 175th of a second so that the identifier would be a concatenation of these lengths. In practice however it is desirable to have a somewhat shorter identifier so the unique identifier is preferably the concatenation of the track lengths expressed in a fairly coarse unit such as th of a second.

Appendix A contains source code written in C for a fuzzy comparison algorithm suitable for determining whether two audio CDs are exactly or approximately the same. The fuzzy comparison algorithm proceeds as follows. For each of the two audio CDs to be compared one determines the lengths of all the tracks in the recordings in milliseconds. One then shifts all track lengths to the right by eight bits in effect performing a truncating division by 2.sup.8 256. One then goes through both of the recordings track by track accumulating as one proceeds two numbers the match total and the match error. These numbers are both initialized to zero at the start of the comparison. For each of the tracks one increments the match total by the shifted length of that track in the first CD to be compared and one increments the match error by the absolute value of the difference between the shifted lengths of the track in the two CDs. When one gets to the last track in the CD with the fewer number of tracks one continues with the tracks in the other CD incrementing both the match total and the match error by the shifted lengths of those tracks. Following these steps of going through the tracks the algorithm then divides the match error by the match number subtracts the resulting quotient from 1 and converts the difference to a percentage which is indicative of how well the two CDs match.

Appendix B contains source code written in C for a comparison algorithm suitable for determining whether two audio CDs are exactly the same. The algorithm generates from the number of tracks the track lengths and the start and end times of the tracks an 8 byte value. The high order 4 bytes are obtained by summing the start and end times of all tracks expressed in milliseconds. The low order 4 bytes are obtained by summing the lengths of all tracks expressed in milliseconds shifting the sum left ten bits and adding the number of tracks.

A unique identifier for a musical recording may be employed as a database key. A site may maintain a database of information about CDs for example information about all CDs issued by the particular record company can be maintained on that record company s site. There are various alternative ways for users to navigate this information. For example they could use a Web page containing many hyperlinks as a table of contents or they could use a conventional search engine. A third way of searching which is enabled by the unique identifier is for there to be Web page which invites the user to place in the computer s CD drive the CD about which he or she is seeking information. Upon detection of the presence of the CD in the drive a script in the Web page computes the unique identifier corresponding to the CD and sends it to the server. The server then displays information about the CD retrieved from a database on the basis of that unique identifier. This information may include a Web address URL that is related to the audio CD e.g. that of the artists home page simple data such as the names of the songs and also complementary entertainment including potentially photographs e.g. of the band artwork animations and video clips. It is also possible to arrange things so that when the user inserts an audio CD into the computer i the Web browser is launched if not already running ii the browser computes the CD s unique identifier and from that unique identifier derives aURL and iii the browser does an HTTP get transaction on that URL.

An alternative application of unique identifiers for musical recordings is to employ an audio CD as a key for entering into a premium area of the Web. There are presently premium areas of the Web to which people are admitted by subscription. A simple form of admission based on the unique identifier is to require before accessing a particular area of the Web that the user place in his or her CD drive a particular CD or a CD published by a particular company or containing the music of a particular band or artist. This is readily accomplished by a script which invokes the functions provided by the command plug in and computes a unique identifier.

A third aspect is the connection of chat rooms with musical recordings. The goal is to provide all participants in a chat room with the same music at approximately the same time.

The prevailing network protocol for chat services is Internet Relay Chat IRC described J. Oikarinen D. Reed Internet Relay Chat Protocol Internet Request for Comments No. 1459 1993 . In this protocol when one becomes a client of a chat server one sends the name of a chat room. The chat server receives messages from all of its clients and relays the messages sent in by one client to all the other clients connected in the same room as that client. The messages which a client sends are typically typed in by the user who is running the client and the messages which a client receives are typically displayed for the user who is running the client to read.

In a preferred embodiment a chat client is customized by a plug in which we will call the chat plug in. The chat client is started up by a browser as follows see . The user connects via the browser to a central Web page box which upon being downloaded asks that the user insert a CD into his or her player box . A unique identifier of the CD is computed and communicated back to the server by using the control plug in described above under the command of a script in the central Web page box . The server then employs the unique identifier to determine whether it has a chat room focused on the CD box . This step may be carried out by looking the unique identifier up in a database using techniques well known in the art. There exists a vast literature on connecting Web pages to databases e.g. December Ginsburg supra chapter 21. If a chat room focused on the CD exists or can be created the server responds with the name of that chat room and the browser starts up a chat client on the user s computer as a client of that chat room box .

The chat room s name is set by the server to contain information about the track which the CD is playing in the other chat room clients machines and the time at which the track started to play as well as about the volume at which the CD is playing. The chat client plug in employs that information to direct the control plug in to set the CD in the user s computer to play in such a manner that it is approximately synchronized to the CD which is playing in the other chat room clients machines box .

Each user in the chat room is able to control the CD which is playing in his or her machine. Control actions result in the chat plug in sending messages to the chat server which describe the control action being taken box . For example such messages may indicate a change in the position of the CD a change in the volume or the ejection of the CD to replace it with another. The chat plug ins running on the other users machines upon seeing a message of this kind replicate the action as far as possible on the other users machines by using the control plug in described above box .

In a further aspect a chat room focused on a particular musical recording might allow for a voting procedure to select particular tracks. A simple voting procedure would be for each chat plug in to act upon a change message of the kind described in the preceding paragraph only when it sees two identical consecutive change messages. This would mean that in order to change the track which is being played it would be necessary for two users to change to that track. The number two may be replaced by a higher number.

In a further aspect the messages delivered to the users of a chat can be driven from a text file rather than manual typing. This would allow a prerecorded experience to be played back for a group of chat users. Such a technique may be used to create a pre recorded narrated tour of an audio CD.

An important advantage of the preferred embodiment as described above is that it may be used with any chat server software which supports the minimal functionality required by Internet Relay Chat or by a protocol providing similar minimum chat service. The additional software required is located in the chat client plug n and in the central Web page with its connection to a database of CD information.

A description has been provided with particular reference to preferred embodiments thereof and examples but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the claims which may include the phrase at least one of A B and C as an alternative expression that means one or more of A B and C may be used contrary to the holding in v. 358 F3d 870 69 USPQ2d 1865 Fed. Cir. 2004 .

