---

title: Techniques for evaluation and improvement of user experience for applications in mobile wireless networks
abstract: Techniques are described for evaluating and improving a user experience for applications in mobile wireless networks. In some embodiments, for example, traffic characteristic prioritization information may be received from a base station at a mobile station and the traffic characteristic prioritization information may be sent to one or more applications. Traffic characteristic parameters may be received from the one or more applications and a request may be sent from the mobile station to the base station to create a service flow or modify an existing service flow. A prioritization value for the service flow may be received based on the traffic characteristic parameters and the traffic characteristic prioritization information. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09042311&OS=09042311&RS=09042311
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09042311
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101013
---
This Application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 311 174 filed Mar. 5 2010 the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Wireless communication systems communicate information over a shared wireless communication medium such as one or more portions of the radio frequency RF spectrum. Recent innovations in mobile computing devices and the increased availability of advanced interactive multimedia and other data services have resulted in increased demands placed on wireless communications systems. Furthermore the limited bandwidth of wireless communications systems and the cost of transmission of data among other factors are important considerations when implementing wireless communications systems. One particular area that results in increased demands on wireless communications systems is different types of applications that require varying amounts of wireless bandwidth. As the number and type of bandwidth intensive applications continues to increase the demands placed on wireless communications systems and mobile computing devices also increase. Consequently techniques designed to manage application priority and enhance application usability are desirable.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to techniques to improve the quality of user experience for Internet applications and to evaluate the quality of user experience for Internet video applications in a wireless communications system. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to application agnostic prioritization downlink buffer reports and time alignment methods for video data files for example. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The number and type of bandwidth intensive applications used in modern mobile wireless networks continues to increase. In various embodiments mobile wireless networks may include a set of service classes that are provided to support different types of applications. For example as defined in one or more of the IEEE 802.16 standards for WMAN including standards such as 802.16 2004 802.16.2 2004 802.16e 802.16f 802.16m progeny and variants there are five service classes that include Unsolicited Grant Service UGS Real time polling service rtPS extend rtPS ertPS non real time polling service nrtPS and best effort BE .

Among these classes UGS rtPS and ertPS are designed to support Real Time applications and may have a higher priority than nrtPS or BE service classes in scheduling and resource allocation. However in many current mobile wireless networks there is no standard way to determine what applications should be classified as Real Time or to map applications to each of these service classes. In some embodiments UGS ertPS and rtPS may be controlled by a network operator or carrier and may be activated only for applications that have obtained permission from the operator which may not always be possible for all kinds of Internet applications. Consequently a substantial need exists to improve the quality of the user experience for Internet applications that do not obtain permission from the operator to use UGS ertPS and nrtPS and can only be supported with BE.

In various embodiments the communications system may comprise or form part of a wired communications system a wireless communications system or a combination of both. For example the communications system may include one or more nodes arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wired communication links. Examples of a wired communication link may include without limitation a wire cable bus printed circuit board PCB Ethernet connection peer to peer P2P connection backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optic connection and so forth. The communications system also may include one or more nodes arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communication links. Examples of a wireless communication link may include without limitation a radio channel infrared channel radio frequency RF channel Wireless Fidelity WiFi channel a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free frequency bands.

The communications system may communicate information in accordance with one or more standards as promulgated by a standards organization. In one embodiment for example various devices comprising part of the communications system may be arranged to operate in accordance with one or more of the IEEE 802.16 standards for WMAN including standards such as 802.16 2004 802.16.2 2004 802.16e 2005 802.16f 802.16m progeny and variants WGA WiGig progeny and variants or a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard. In some embodiments the communications system may be arranged to communicate in accordance with any fourth generation 4 G network or radio technology progeny and variants.

In various embodiments the communications system may be arranged to operate in accordance with one or more of the IEEE 802.11 standard the WiGig Alliance specifications WirelessHD specifications standards or variants such as the WirelessHD Specification Revision 1.0d7 Dec. 1 2007 and its progeny as promulgated by WirelessHD LLC collectively referred to as the WirelessHD Specification or with any other wireless standards as promulgated by other standards organizations such as the International Telecommunications Union ITU the International Organization for Standardization ISO the International Electrotechnical Commission IEC the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers information IEEE the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF and so forth. In various embodiments for example the communications system may communicate information according to one or more IEEE 802.11 standards for wireless local area networks WLANs such as the information IEEE 802.11 standard 1999 Edition Information Technology Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between Systems Local and Metropolitan Area Networks Specific Requirements Part 11 WLAN Medium Access Control MAC and Physical PHY Layer Specifications its progeny and supplements thereto e.g. 802.11a b g h j n VHT SG and variants IEEE 802.15.3 and variants European Computer Manufacturers Association ECMA TG20 progeny and variants and other wireless networking standards. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The communications system may communicate manage or process information in accordance with one or more protocols. A protocol may comprise a set of predefined rules or instructions for managing communication among nodes. In various embodiments for example the communications system may employ one or more protocols such as a beam forming protocol medium access control MAC protocol Physical Layer Convergence Protocol PLCP Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM protocol Frame Relay protocol Systems Network Architecture SNA protocol Transport Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP TCP IP X.25 Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP User Datagram Protocol UDP a contention based period CBP protocol a distributed contention based period CBP protocol and so forth. In various embodiments the communications system also may be arranged to operate in accordance with standards and or protocols for media processing. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in the communications system may comprise a network and a plurality of nodes where n may represent any positive integer value. In various embodiments the nodes may be implemented as various types of wireless devices. Examples of wireless devices may include without limitation a station a subscriber station a base station a wireless access point AP a wireless client device a wireless station STA a laptop computer ultra laptop computer portable computer personal computer PC notebook PC handheld computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA smartphone pager messaging device media player digital music player set top box STB appliance workstation user terminal mobile unit consumer electronics television digital television high definition television television receiver high definition television receiver and so forth.

In some embodiments the nodes may comprise one more wireless interfaces and or components for wireless communication such as one or more transmitters receivers transceivers radios chipsets amplifiers filters control logic network interface cards NICs antennas antenna arrays modules and so forth. Examples of an antenna may include without limitation an internal antenna an omni directional antenna a monopole antenna a dipole antenna an end fed antenna a circularly polarized antenna a micro strip antenna a diversity antenna a dual antenna an antenna array and so forth.

In various embodiments the nodes may comprise or form part of a wireless network . In one embodiment for example the wireless network may comprise a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX network. Although some embodiments may be described with the wireless network implemented as a WiMAX wireless network for purposes of illustration and not limitation it can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the wireless network may comprise or be implemented as various types of wireless networks and associated protocols suitable for a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Broadband Wireless Access BWA network a radio network a cellular network a television network a satellite network such as a direct broadcast satellite DBS network and or any other wireless communications network configured to operate in accordance with the described embodiments. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments mobile computing device may include a processor a memory a display one or more radios or transceivers a connection management module and applications . Mobile computing device may be in wireless communication with one or more of mobile computing devices and or using wireless network . For purposes of illustration system will be described hereinafter as a WiMAX system where mobile computing device comprises a subscriber or user mobile computing device and devices and comprise base stations or other network devices operative to exchange information with or provide information to mobile computing device . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown mobile computing device may comprise a processor . The processor may be implemented as any processor such as a complex instruction set computer CISC microprocessor a reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor a very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor a processor implementing a combination of instruction sets or other processor device. In one embodiment for example the processor may be implemented as a general purpose processor such as a processor made by Intel Corporation Santa Clara Calif. The processor may also be implemented as a dedicated processor such as a controller microcontroller embedded processor a digital signal processor DSP a network processor a media processor an input output I O processor and so forth. The processor may have any number of processor cores including one two four eight or any other suitable number. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory in some embodiments. The memory may comprise any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data including both volatile and non volatile memory. For example the memory may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information. It is worthy to note that some portion or all of the memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processor or alternatively some portion or all of the memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium for example a hard disk drive that is external to the integrated circuit of the processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As further shown in the mobile devices may comprise a display . Display may comprise any suitable display unit for displaying information appropriate for a mobile computing device. In addition display may be implemented as an additional I O device such as a touch screen touch panel touch screen panel and so forth. Touch screens may comprise display overlays which are implemented using one of several different techniques such as pressure sensitive resistive techniques electrically sensitive capacitive techniques acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave techniques photo sensitive infra red techniques and so forth. The effect of such overlays may allow a display to be used as an input device to remove or enhance the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with content provided on display .

In one embodiment for example display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD or other type of suitable visual interface. Display may comprise for example a touch sensitive color display screen. In various implementations the display may comprise one or more thin film transistors TFT LCD including embedded transistors. In such implementations the display may comprise a transistor for each pixel to implement an active matrix. While the embodiments are not limited in this context an active matrix display may be desirable since it requires lower current to trigger pixel illumination and is more responsive to change than a passive matrix.

In various embodiments mobile computing device may communicate information over a wireless shared media or network via radio . The wireless shared media or network may comprise one or more allocations of RF spectrum. The allocations of RF spectrum may be contiguous or non contiguous. In some embodiments the radio may communicate information over the wireless shared media or network using various multicarrier techniques utilized by for example WiMAX or WiMAX II systems. For example the radio may utilize various MU MIMO techniques to perform beamforming spatial diversity or frequency diversity.

In general operation the radio may communicate information using one or more communications channels. The radio may comprise any suitable wireless radio or transceiver operative to communicate in accordance with any number of wireless communication protocols wireless carrier signals and or frequencies. A communication channel may be a defined set of frequencies time slots codes or combinations thereof. In one embodiment for example the transmitting or receiving portion of the radio of mobile computing device may communicate media and control information to or from the receiving or transmitting portion of a radio of mobile computing devices and or . In some embodiments the communications channels may use the same or different sets of transmit and or receive frequencies depending upon a given implementation. For example radio may be configured to send receive information using a plurality of protocols from any number of wireless standards. In some embodiments radio may be configured to send receive information or data in accordance with a 802.16m protocol and a 802.16e protocol for example.

In some embodiments mobile computing device may include connection management module . Connection management module may be operative to receive traffic characteristic prioritization information from a base station send the traffic characteristic prioritization information to one or more applications receive traffic characteristic parameters from the one or more applications send a request to the base station to create a service flow or modify an existing service flow and receive a prioritization value for the service flow based on the traffic characteristic parameters and the traffic characteristic prioritization information. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments mobile station may include connection management logic or a connection management module as shown in . In some embodiments the connection management logic may be operative to Implement an Application Agnostic Prioritization AAP method. The AAP method may define a method to prioritize a traffic flow based on Traffic Characteristics TC parameters such as Maximum Traffic Burst Maximum Sustained Traffic Rate Delay or any other suitable parameter that is universally defined for all applications. For example the AAP method may be analogous to a Fast Lane concept widely used in shopping malls and Supermarkets where customers with items within a limit can go to designated lanes for fast check out.

As shown in applications and mobile station may be collocated on the same mobile device. In some embodiments the signaling between the applications and the mobile device may implemented using an application programming interface API . In various embodiments mobile station and base station may comprise separate and distinct mobile devices. In some embodiments the signaling between the mobile station and the base station may be implemented using a mobile air interface MAI . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Applications may comprise any suitable application instructions or data set suitable for use with a mobile computing device such as mobile station . For example applications may comprise one or more applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. Any number or type of suitable application could be used and still fall within the described embodiments.

In various embodiments base station may be operative to periodically every 100 seconds for example send a traffic priority broadcast message TPM message to all mobile stations that are connected to the base station . In some embodiments this traffic priority message may carry two type of information best effort BE priority and limits of traffic characteristic parameters to enable mobile stations to know what priority level will be assigned to BE service flows. Table 1 below illustrates an example of TPM message.

As shown in Table 1 if a service flow has maximum traffic burst of 200 bytes and maximum sustained traffic rate of 10 kBps its BEP value will be set to 2 High . On the other hand if a service flow has both traffic characteristic parameters set to Unlimited its BEP value will be set to 0 Low . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments for example the connection management logic of mobile station may be operation to receive the traffic characteristic prioritization information from base station . For example the traffic characteristic prioritization information may comprise a ranking or prioritization of different types of wireless data including one or more of voice data video data or file transfer data. In some embodiments the voice data is assigned a high priority the video data is assigned a medium priority and the file transfer data is assigned a low priority. While a limited number and type of wireless data and priorities are described for purpose of illustration it should be understood that any number or type of data or priority could be used and still fall within the described embodiments.

Mobile station may be operative to send the latest TPM information including BEP and limits of TC parameters to applications via API so that applications can configure their TC parameters accordingly in some embodiments. For example connection management logic of mobile station may send the traffic characteristic prioritization information to the one or more applications in various embodiments. This may enable in some embodiments the applications to determine what types of traffic will receive priority when transmitted and to tailor their outputs accordingly.

In response the applications may send information about their traffic characteristics parameters to mobile station via API . In embodiments for example connection management logic of mobile station may be operative to receive traffic characteristic parameters from the one or more applications . In various embodiments mobile station may send a request to the base station to create a service flow or modify an existing service flow after receiving the traffic characteristic parameters from the one or more applications . For example mobile station may send a request to base station for creating a new BE service flow or modifying an existing BE service flow. In the request in some embodiments the mobile station may specify the TC parameters of the service flow. In response the base station will assign the appropriate BEP value to the service flow.

In some embodiments the base station may be operative to schedule the BE service flows according to their BEP value. For example a service flow with higher BEP value will be given higher priority in scheduling and resource allocation. It is worth noting that the BEP may only be meaningful when BE service flows compete with each other and may not impact the scheduling decision when BE service flows compete with other type of service flows.

In various embodiments mobile station may receive a prioritization value for the service flow based on the traffic characteristic parameters and the traffic characteristic prioritization information from the base station . The connection management logic of the mobile station may also be operative to receive scheduling information for the service flow from the base station and transmit the service flow based on the scheduling information in some embodiments. For example the base station or connection management logic may be operative to determine based on the information received from the applications and the information received from the base station when the optimal time is to transmit a service to ensure that the service flow obtains a desired priority level.

In various embodiments an additional or complementary method to the above described application agnostic prioritization method may be used to further support or enhance real time applications with a BE service class. In some embodiments the additional or complementary method may comprise a downlink buffer report DBR . For example if all applications comprise a high priority it may be difficult to prioritize each application because each application may have the same traffic characteristics. In this example implementation of a downlink buffer report may enable a mobile station to information one or more applications to reduce their rate if the mobile station is notified of wireless bandwidth congestion by the base station . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In some embodiments the mobile station may indicates to the base station that it wants to enable DBR in requesting to create a new BE service flow or when modifying an existing BE service flow. For example the connection management logic of mobile station may be operative to send a request to the base station to enable a downlink buffer report. In response in various embodiments the base station may notify the mobile station as to whether DBR is enabled for the service flow. For example the mobile station may receive a notification message from the base station indicating that the downlink buffer report is enabled.

In various embodiments if DBR is enabled the base station may send a DBR MAC signaling header or other type of notification to the mobile station when congestion occurs over the downlink and when congestion is over or is no longer occurring. In some embodiments after receiving the DBR MAC signaling header the mobile station may notify the applications via API about whether there is congestion over the downlink and the application may use this information in determining how to proceed. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Operations for various embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic flow. It can be appreciated that an illustrated logic flow merely provides one example of how the described functionality may be implemented. Further a given logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition a logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments traffic characteristic prioritization information comprising a ranking or prioritization of different types of wireless data may be received from a base station at a mobile station at . For example mobile station may receive TC prioritization information from base station in some embodiments. In various embodiments the different types of wireless data include one or more of voice data video data or file transfer data wherein voice data is assigned a high priority video data is assigned a medium priority and file transfer data is assigned a low priority. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

At the traffic characteristic prioritization information may be sent to one or more applications. For example mobile station may send the TC prioritization information to applications using API . In some embodiments at traffic characteristic parameters may be received from the one or more applications. For example mobile station may receive the traffic characteristic parameters comprising one or more of a maximum traffic burst a maximum sustained traffic rate or a delay from applications .

At in various embodiments a request may be sent from the mobile station to the base station to create a service flow or modify an existing service flow. For example mobile station may send a request to base station to create a BE service flow. In some embodiments at a prioritization value for the service flow based on the traffic characteristic parameters and the traffic characteristic prioritization information may be received. For example base station may may provide mobile station with a prioritization value for the BE service flow.

In various embodiments scheduling information for the service flow may be received from the base station. For example in addition to the prioritization value base station may also or alternatively provide mobile station with scheduling information for the service flow. The service flow may be scheduled based on the scheduling information in some embodiments. For example mobile station and applications may use the scheduling information and or prioritization value to schedule the service flow for transmission or delivery.

A request may be sent from the mobile station to the base station to enable a downlink buffer report in some embodiments. For example mobile station may send a request to base station to enable DBR. In various embodiments a notification may be received from the base station that the downlink buffer report is enabled. For example in response to the request base station may notify mobile station that DBR is enabled.

Congestion information may be received from the base station in some embodiments. For example if the base station detects or otherwise becomes aware of congestion on the wireless network base station may notify mobile station of the congestion. In various embodiments the congestion information may be sent to the one or more applications. For example mobile station may inform applications of the congestions and the applications may be configured or operative to make appropriate adjustments to avoid or other handle the congestion. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Another potential shortcoming in modern mobile wireless networks relates to the transmission and presentation of video data or use of video applications. Internet video applications are becoming more and more important in mobile wireless networks as network bandwidth continues to increase. In some embodiments however it may be difficult to evaluate the quality of user experience for a large number of Internet video applications particularly real time applications because they may follow a closed source and proprietary design that uses strong encryption mechanisms.

In various embodiments a key step for video quality assessment is time alignment in which each reference video frame is mapped to a best matched frame in the recorded video sequence so that a frame by frame full reference based video quality assessment tool can be used to measure the quality of user experience of the recorded video sequence. This process may be extremely processor and time intensive and may not provide the needed accuracy or results. Therefore a need exists for a time alignment method using a cross correlation function with causality constraint and a bidirectional matching method to find a start offset to evaluate and improve Internet video applications in mobile wireless networks.

For purposes of clarity several definitions are used throughout. A reference video may comprise a video sequence that is played out at a transmitter in some embodiments. In various embodiments recorded video may comprise a video sequence that is transmitted over a network and recorded at receiver. Matched video may comprise a video sequence that consists of the recorded video frames that match the corresponding reference video frames in some embodiments. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments an algorithm may be implemented to improve the alignment of video data in a mobile wireless network. In some embodiments the algorithm or other logic may be implemented at any suitable device in the mobile wireless network such as mobile device of or base station for example. In various embodiments the inputs of the algorithm may comprise the reference video and the recorded video and the output of the algorithm may comprise the matched video.

A frame by frame video quality assessment tool such as Q Master for example may be used to obtain a quality of user experience measurement such as a mean opinion score for the recorded video sequence. For purposes of clarity several parameters are used throughout the following equations to explain the video timing algorithm. The parameters comprise in various embodiments 

x the s th reference video frame wherein s is from 1 to M where M is the total number of frames in the reference video

y the n th recorded video frame wherein n is from 1 to N where N is the total number of frames in the recorded video

In various embodiments the reference video may be played at the transmit device and then the recorded video may be received at the receive device with a video recording tool such as SuperTinTin for example. In some embodiments a transmit or receive device may comprise a handheld laptop desktop or other suitable computing device as described herein. For purposes of clarity and not limitation it may be assumed that the same frame rate exists for the reference video and for the recorded video for example R r. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments a cross correlation method may be used to obtain the matched video frames. In some embodiments the cross correlation function may comprise arg max 

In some embodiments f may comprise the normalized cross correlation function of the two video frames and may be computed according to the following function 

In the preceding function aij may comprise the luma or brightness component of an i j pixel of a frame a. In some embodiments the resolution of reference video recorded video and matched video may be the same or substantially similar.

In various embodiments a search for the first matched video frame e.g. s 1 in the following recorded video frames 1 1 

The last recorded video frames may be excluded to ensure there are enough frames for the remaining M 1 reference video frames in some embodiments considering the causality constraint that the matched video frames cannot go backwards in time. In various embodiments the best matched reference video frame for the just found first matched video frame e.g. bidirectional matched and a start offset can be calculated according to the following function arg max 1

In some embodiments the physical meaning of start offset S may be that the reference video frames in front of the S 1 th reference video frame are lost during the transmission. Therefore it may be assumed as the best match for the first S reference video frames according the following function 1

If s S 1 a search for the matched video frame from the previously found frame to the last frame that does not exceed the maximum tolerable delay may be performed according to the following function 

In various embodiments K 30. In some embodiments if the frame rate is 30 fps the maximum tolerable delay may be 1 second with K 30. After obtaining all of the matched video frames a frame loss rate and effective frame rate may be calculated as follows and by counting the frames that are different from their previous one 

In various embodiments illustrates an example to illustrate the foregoing time alignment algorithm. The number in the box may represent the frame index of a frame in reference video and the number at the corner may indicate the frame index of the frame in the current video sequence in some embodiments. In various embodiments it may be assumed that frames and of reference video are lost during transmission and frames and are delayed. In recorded video the previously received frame may be repeated if the current frame is lost or delayed and the matched video frames may be realigned with the reference video frames. For example in it may be assumed that frames and are the best match for frames and respectively. Accordingly time alignment of the video sequences can be achieved. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The article and or machine readable or computer readable storage medium may include one or more types of computer readable storage media capable of storing data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. In some embodiments the store medium may comprise a non transitory storage medium. Examples of a machine readable storage medium may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDR DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM Compact Disk ROM CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory e.g. ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory disk e.g. floppy disk hard drive optical disk magnetic disk magneto optical disk or card e.g. magnetic card optical card tape cassette or any other type of computer readable storage media suitable for storing information. Moreover any media involved with downloading or transferring a computer program from a remote computer to a requesting computer carried by data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium through a communication link e.g. a modem radio or network connection is considered computer readable storage media.

The article and or machine readable medium may store logic comprising instructions data and or code that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the described embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software.

The logic may comprise or be implemented as software a software module an application a program a subroutine instructions an instruction set computing code words values symbols or combination thereof. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The instructions may be implemented according to a predefined computer language manner or syntax for instructing a processor to perform a certain function. The instructions may be implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language such as C C Java BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC assembly language machine code and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context. When the logic is implemented as software any suitable processor and memory unit may execute the software.

As shown in I O device RAM and ROM are coupled to processor by way of chipset . Chipset may be coupled to processor by a bus . Accordingly bus may include multiple lines.

Processor may be a central processing unit comprising one or more processor cores and may include any number of processors having any number of processor cores. The processor may include any type of processing unit such as for example CPU multi processing unit a reduced instruction set computer RISC a processor that have a pipeline a complex instruction set computer CISC digital signal processor DSP and so forth.

Although not shown the system may include various interface circuits such as an Ethernet interface and or a Universal Serial Bus USB interface and or the like. In some exemplary embodiments the I O device may comprise one or more input devices connected to interface circuits for entering data and commands into the system . For example the input devices may include a keyboard mouse touch screen track pad track ball isopoint a voice recognition system and or the like. Similarly the I O device may comprise one or more output devices connected to the interface circuits for outputting information to an operator. For example the output devices may include one or more digital displays printers speakers and or other output devices if desired. For example one of the output devices may be a digital display. The display may be a cathode ray tube CRTs liquid crystal displays LCDs light emitting diode LED display or any other type of display.

The system may also have a wired or wireless network interface to exchange data with other devices via a connection to a network. The network connection may be any type of network connection such as a wireless connection or a wired connection including but not limited to a cellular connection radio frequency connection an Ethernet connection digital subscriber line DSL telephone line coaxial cable etc. The network may be any type of network such as the Internet a telephone network a cable network a wireless network a packet switched network a circuit switched network and or the like.

The foregoing represent are only a few examples of the problems that may be overcome by implementing a method and apparatus to manage MBS data in a wireless communications system and it may be appreciated that other problems may be overcome and other advantages may exist as well.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using a machine readable or computer readable medium or article which may store an instruction a set of instructions or computer executable code that if executed by a machine or processor may cause the machine or processor to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The machine readable medium or article may include for example any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit for example memory removable or non removable media volatile or non volatile memory or media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD a tape a cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code encrypted code and the like implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

It should be noted that the methods described herein do not have to be executed in the order described or in any particular order. Moreover various activities described with respect to the methods identified herein can be executed in serial or parallel fashion.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. It is to be understood that the above description has been made in an illustrative fashion and not a restrictive one. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Thus the scope of various embodiments includes any other applications in which the above compositions structures and methods are used.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter that lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

It is also worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

