---

title: Retrospectively correlated turbo spin echo imaging
abstract: Systems and methods which generate a sequence of images using turbo spin echo magnetic resonance imaging which are retrospectively correlated with periodic motion occurring within a subject being imaged are described. In one embodiment, k-space measurements (or the measurements from which images are formed) are captured during, and correlated with, different phases in a cardiac cycle of the subject. With this sequence, the images that are produced are able to show, and/or compensate for, motion correlated with the cardiac cycle of the subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738113&OS=08738113&RS=08738113
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 08738113
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
This invention was made with government support under Grants HL048223 and HL057990 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The disclosure relates generally to magnetic resonance imaging and more particularly to reconstructing images with motion correlation data to analyze internal motion of a subject.

There is evidence that carotid artery imaging techniques can be used to detect disease and classify subjects that will benefit from interventions. Because Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI can acquire images with a variety of different tissue contrasts it presents an advance over x ray techniques in the ability to discriminate between different types of soft tissue and the potential to discriminate between important atherosclerotic plaque components. Turbo spin echo TSE MRI pulse sequences with efficient acquisition of T1 T2 and proton density weighted images have become very useful in the evaluation of cervical carotid artery disease. Current high resolution three dimensional 3D TSE techniques could also be valuable in carotid MRI. However motion artifacts that arise due to the relatively long data acquisition time of current TSE pulse sequence methods result in an unacceptably high fraction of non interpretable images. As a result TSE techniques result in obvious blurring or ghosting artifacts that greatly reduce the quality of the images.

Methods can be implemented to reduce artifacts caused by poor acquisition time. For example applying parallel imaging techniques may be used to reduce acquisition time and thereby reduce the likelihood of motion artifacts. Parallel imaging techniques can also be used to compensate for artifacts due to swallowing and other neck muscle movements. Reduced field of view sequences with more efficient double inversion blood suppression have also shown reduced susceptibility to these types of motion artifacts. Single shot sequences such as Half Fourier Acquisition Single shot Turbo spin Echo HASTE can also be used to reduce acquisition time and hence the susceptibility to certain motion artifacts. Navigators and dedicated motion detection RF coils have been shown to be successful in detecting and rejecting data corrupted by swallowing. Additionally using average specific phase encoding ordering or comparing adjacent sets of k space data lines are alternative methods for detecting data corrupted by patient motion.

Other MRI scanning methods such as Gradient Echo GRE methods are used for faster imaging to reduce more complex motion artifacts such as ones that are caused by the movements of the cardiac cycle. These may include synchronizing data acquisition with the heart cycle to insure controlled capture across all data points. GRE based pulse sequences can have a very short Repetition Time TR 

TSE techniques on the other hand generate detailed images of soft tissue. However the same methods to compensate for motion artifacts that are caused by the movements of the cardiac cycle are not used with TSE techniques. This is in part because of the relatively long TR required by TSE techniques 500 ms . Acquisitions synchronized with the heart cycle which use TSE techniques typically only obtain one image at a single cardiac phase. Accordingly synchronized acquisitions using TSE techniques are generally only used to reduce the effect of cardiac motion by acquiring data at a point during a specific time period of the cardiac cycle e.g. a point during the diastole period. Further synchronization lengthens the acquisition time due to the need to acquire multiple scans at each specific point in the cardiac cycle. This additional time results in increased susceptibility to swallowing and respiratory motion artifacts. Because of this synchronized acquisitions are rarely used in a TSE environment. This problem can be improved somewhat by limiting gating to just the central portion of k space however the effect of a variable TR on the resulting image is still unacceptable.

Embodiments described herein introduce systems and methods which generate a sequence of images using turbo spin echo magnetic resonance imaging which are retrospectively correlated with periodic motion occurring within a subject being imaged. In one embodiment k space measurements or the measurements from which images are formed are captured during and correlated with different phases in a cardiac cycle of the subject. With this sequence the images that are produced are able to show and or compensate for motion correlated with the cardiac cycle of the subject.

In one embodiment a method is provided which converts a conventional multislice single image per slice TSE acquisition into a multislice retrospectively heart cycle correlated image sequence per slice TSE acquisition such correlated TSE acquisitions are referred to herein as a cineTSE . Because the cineTSE images are correlated with a subject s heart cycle embodiments are able to reduce artifacts caused by pulsatile motion. Embodiments may utilize the cineTSE sequence to generate a full sequence of heart cycle correlated images throughout the cardiac cycle at each slice location in the same amount of acquisition time that is conventionally used by standard or gated TSE sequences to produce a single image at each slice location.

Embodiments of the described cineTSE sequence may be implemented using the same acquisition time of a standard two average TSE sequence. As a result embodiments may avoid non constant TR effects which are typically associated with gated sequences such as ghosting in high contrast tissue areas. Additionally in some embodiments the TSE acquisition may be obtained asynchronously with the cardiac cycle which will result in the images not suffering from problems caused by non constant TR periods.

In some embodiments additional processing methods may be applied to a captured sequence of measurements from which the images are formed to complete image reconstruction. One method may utilize information from multiple receiver Radio Frequency RF coils of the MRI device to implement parallel imaging methods. Another method may include a constrained reconstruction method where an a priori constraint is applied which assumes an object is not going to change very rapidly from one image bin to the next image bin.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present invention.

In portions of the following description embodiments are illustrated in terms of imaging a human subject and monitoring cardiac cycle movements. However it is noted that the inventive aspects discussed herein may be used when imaging any type of subjects while monitoring any form of periodic movement therein. The specific examples are utilized for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to be limiting. Alterations and further modifications of the inventive features illustrated herein and additional applications of the principles of the inventions as illustrated herein which would occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having possession of this disclosure are to be considered within the scope of the invention.

Directing attention to an imaging system adapted according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown as imaging system . Imaging system comprises processor based system operatively coupled to transducer and periodic signal monitor for use in collecting imaging data with respect to subject . Subject may comprise a patient for which imaging of a portion of the patient s body is desired. Such imaging as provided by imaging system may comprise reconstruction of images of internal body structure e.g. organs cavities bones etc. using for example TSE MRI techniques.

Periodic signal monitor may be a cardiac cycle monitor and implemented using any method which can provide timing information of the cardiac cycle. Periodic signal monitor is shown as a finger connected pulse oximeter. Such a pulse oximeter functions to measure pulsation of the blood in the finger and the pulsation is closely synchronized with the beating of the heart. However there is a small time delay between the compression of the heart and the actual pulse of the blood in the finger which may be accounted for if desired. For example one method of accounting for this delay may include adjusting the periodic signal phase when correlating a cardiac cycle with acquired images. It is noted that other methods of cardiac monitoring may be used. For example a pressure sensor which reads a pressure pulse may be placed on the on the neck of a subject ECG leads may be placed on a subject etc. Periodic signal monitor may also be sensors calibrated to measure other types of periodic motions such as breathing periods and the like.

Processor based system of embodiments comprises a processor e.g. central processing unit CPU application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. memory e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM disk memory optical memory etc. and appropriate input output I O apparatus e.g. display pointing device keyboard printer speaker microphone etc. operable under control of an instruction set e.g. software firmware etc. defining operation as described herein. Such operation may provide image reconstruction corresponding to the configuration of transducer and periodic signal monitor .

Imaging system of the embodiment is adapted to utilize cineTSE acquisition techniques described herein to reconstruct images. An image reconstruction framework providing cineTSE acquisition techniques as may be utilized by imaging system is shown in as image reconstruction framework . Image reconstruction framework may be implemented at least in part as instructions operable upon the processor of processor based system of imaging system .

Image reconstruction framework of the illustrated embodiment may receive raw Magnetic Resonance MR data from transducer corresponding to a TSE sequence and cardiac cycle data from periodic signal monitor . This information is provided to image reconstruction processing module . In some embodiments the turbo spin sequence may be a conventional sequence designed primarily for generating a simple static image. The sequence is correlated by processing module with a simultaneous time measurement of a pressure pulse received from periodic signal monitor . The received MR data is then sorted into k space bins based upon their relative time in the cardiac cycle.

In some embodiments the periodic signal received from periodic signal monitor will be a sinusoidal wave. In these embodiments bins may be configured to represent time divisions of a single reference wave period of the sinusoid. MR data received from transducer may be received across multiple periods of a periodic signal. Embodiments track where in the multiple periodic cycles the MR data is captured and correlates the MR data with the time divisions of bins that correspond to the location in the particular periodic cycle.

With the data in bins images are reconstructed that may depict and or compensate for motion within the subject being imaged. In some embodiments the data in bins may create a sequence of non reconstructed image data such as in the event that there is not enough data to reconstruct a complete image. This can occur due to the fact that in some embodiments the cardiac cycle is asynchronous with the image scanner which will cause it to yield random image samples that may not contain complete information representing motion throughout the cardiac cycle.

When incomplete information is obtained additional processing methods may be undertaken to complete image reconstruction at processing block . One additional method utilizes information from multiple RF coils in transducer to implement parallel imaging methods. In parallel MR imaging a reduced data set in the phase encoding direction s of k space is acquired to shorten acquisition time combining the signal of several coil arrays on a transducer. The spatial information related to the phased array coil elements is utilized for filling in missing information corresponding to empty bins.

Another method may be a constrained reconstruction method where an a priori constraint is applied that assumes that the object is not going to change very rapidly from one image bin to the next image bin. With the assumption that the changes in a given image will be relatively small with respect to a previous image an iterative algorithm may be utilized that uses the data measured along with these constraints and converges on the set of images that satisfy the constraints and satisfy the measured data. Any method such as discussed above which is able to compensate for missing information in one or more of bins may be utilized separately or in combination in order to yield a sequence of images which accounts for the motion caused by the heart that is occurring asynchronously with the image acquisition.

Reconstructed image data is produced by image reconstruction processing block . This data may be stored to memory block . Memory block may be included as part of processor based system or may be located on an external memory device. Alternatively the reconstructed image data may be output to a display device such as display device .

In one embodiment information about a subject s cardiac cycle is recorded during the MRI scan utilizing a pulse oximeter. The acquired k space data lines are sorted into N temporal bins which may correspond to bins according to the time elapsed from a reference time point such as the last systolic trigger. The result is N undersampled data bins each representing a different phase of the cardiac cycle. The undersampled images are reconstructed by simultaneously considering information encoded by the coil sensitivities as well as applying a temporal constraint. This is accomplished according to embodiments by minimizing the following objective function 1 where t is the time bin in the cardiac cycle W k k t is a weight function specifying which lines in k space have been acquired in each bin is the 2D Fourier transform along the spatial coordinates s x y is the coil sensitivity of the ncoil d k k t is the actual data acquired from the ncoil in the bin x y specifies the level of temporal constraint and is a temporal gradient. Since m x y t is periodic in time the following definition of has been found to be optimal compared to methods that estimate the temporal gradient using only a few surrounding points in time.

The following description of describes example implementations and results of embodiments of the present invention. The specific methods used in this example are described for illustrative purposes only to facilitate one of ordinary skill in the art in understanding the concepts described herein and are not intended to limit the scope of the concepts. All data sets were obtained on a Siemens TIM Trio 3T MRI scanner with a modified Turbo Spin Echo TSE sequence. The modified sequence is different from a standard TSE sequence in that the MRI scanner also acquires and store the periodic motion information e.g. from the pulse oximeter and that the density of line sampling in k space may be changed according to .

In this cineTSE technique the cardiac cycle is divided into a number of bins and each echo in each TSE echotrain is assigned to a bin based upon its time in the cardiac cycle. As discussed above the received echo signals may originate across multiple periodic cycles. In these embodiments the echoes are assigned based on their representative time of a reference period. Because readout of an echotrain can require over 100 ms sometimes as much as 200 ms it is not uncommon for the echoes in an echotrain to be assigned to two or more bins. To help ensure that each temporal data bin contains a sufficient number of lines near the center of k space where most of the image energy is found the TSE sequence was modified to more frequently sample slightly oversample the center of k space. To prevent an increase in scan time this is accomplished at the cost of missing varying lines near the edge of k space in each average. Every line of k space is sampled at least once during the entire acquisition. shows a typical sampling density resulting from the modified TSE sequence used in this study. In this case 528 lines were sampled from a k space spanning 264 lines. This corresponds to the same number of lines that would have been sampled with two full averages and a uniform sampling density.

Data used to generate images and plots in and A C was acquired with a T2 weighted TSE sequence with a four channel neck coil two averages a resolution of 0.6 mm 0.6 mm 2 mm twelve echoes per train and a TR TE of 2.5 s 61 ms. The data used in was acquired with a T1 weighted TSE sequence with a sixteen channel neck coil two averages a resolution of 0.5 mm 0.5 mm 2 mm twelve echoes per train and a TR TE of 650 ms 8 ms.

In this particular study a goal was to reconstruct the magnitude images. It was deemed sufficient to estimate the coil sensitivities as 

When correlating data to the cardiac cycle some embodiments may constrain pixels varying with frequencies unrelated to the heart rate more strongly than those varying at frequencies near the heart rate. This was accomplished using the spatially varying temporal constraint of 

Since missing data lines are calculated using coil sensitivities and a temporal constraint there may be a practical limit on the number of temporal bins into which the data should be sorted. Too few data bins might not allow enough temporal resolution to observe important events in the cardiac cycle. Too many bins and the data becomes too heavily temporally constrained and imposes a computational burden on the iterative reconstruction. In these experiments it has been observed that sorting data into more than twelve temporal data bins when two data averages have been acquired does not yield significant improvements to the results. Therefore unless specified for purposes of this discussion all data is sorted into twelve temporal data bins. However it is noted that the inventive concepts herein are not limited to any number of data bins.

Additionally the cineTSE sequence may acquire data independent of the cardiac cycle and as a result some of the acquired data lines may occur on or near the boundary of the data bins. This data may reasonably be sorted into more than one temporal data bin. Such an effect can be taken into account by allowing our data bins to overlap slightly. In some cases an overlap of 50 is utilized to help ensure each data bin contains an adequate amount of data but not too much to blur results in the temporal direction.

Finally during the sorting process it is possible at times to sample a particular line of data in a given data bin multiple times. One way to include this effect is to allow W k k to assume values other than 0 or 1. Alternatively we can average any line that is sampled more than once and keep the original definition of W k k . It has been found that the averaging method yields similar results to the first but is less computationally demanding. As a result any data line that is sampled multiple times in a particular bin is averaged.

While the cineTSE technique is designed to eliminate cardiac related motion artifacts other motion such as swallowing may still create artifacts. illustrates an example where two averages in a standard TSE image can help to reduce a swallowing artifact. However this method may eliminate some or all temporal cardiac information received since only a single time frame is reconstructed. When the corrupted data is sorted into multiple temporal bins the swallowing artifact returns. The corrupted lines can be detected using data from adjacent data lines or from the same set of lines acquired in different averages. These lines can then be removed prior to the cineTSE reconstruction to reduce artifacts due to motion unrelated to the cardiac cycle .

Although ECG gating can reduce artifacts due to cardiac induced pulsations gating is rarely used because it also lengthens the acquisition time resulting in increased susceptibility to swallowing and respiratory motion artifacts. Many TSE protocols acquire two or more data averages to increase image signal to noise ratio and to help reduce the amount of motion artifact. One of the advantages of the cineTSE sequence is that it may be implemented with the same acquisition time of a standard two average TSE sequence. Examples shown in the present disclosure utilize the equivalent of two data averages. While a degree of temporal information could be obtained from just a single average of data it is noted that in many cases at least two averages are used to yield consistent and accurate temporal information.

Another advantage of the cineTSE sequence is the ability to resolve certain flow artifacts and to discriminate between image signal from recirculating blood and tissue. This is evident in and A D where residual blood signal may be misinterpreted for tissue wall. In the middle slice of the systolic and diastolic images clearly show the ulceration whereas the conventional image shows a lighter signal in the ulceration that might be interpreted as loose necrotic core. Additionally it has been shown that in standard sequences pulsatile motion of vessels on the order of 1 mm peak to peak can occur causing blurring of wall morphology. With a cineTSE sequence it is possible to scroll through a dozen images at different time frames in the cardiac cycle and select the image s with least residual blood signal to best depict the vessel wall and plaque morphology. For example shows how using a systolic cineTSE image where fast moving blood gives no signal can be expected to more accurately depict vessel wall thickness compared to a standard TSE sequence.

T1 weighted images provide image contrast that is complementary to that of T2 weighted images and can therefore help discriminate plaque components. However T1 weighted images have a short TE such that the signal from moving blood is not eliminated completely by the spin echo sequence. To eliminate the signal from moving blood T1 weighted sequences may employ double inversion to eliminate the signal from flowing blood. However double inversion techniques are very time inefficient and require substantially longer acquisition times. Since cineTSE is able to distinguish flow artifacts T1 weighted imaging may be performed without double inversion or other flow suppression techniques . If it can be shown that blood signal can be detected and eliminated from analysis of T1 weighted images then the cineTSE technique will substantially decrease the scan time typically required for standard T1 weighted TSE sequences. In this case substantially more information will be obtained in less time.

In many cases flow artifacts can be identified by selecting one or two images from the array of cineTSE images. However since cineTSE produces images at several time points in the cardiac cycle it is also well suited for applications that measure dynamic variables. shows how cineTSE can capture the dynamic nature of a valve. Because motion of the carotid wall can be more clearly seen with cineTSE than with cine GRE sequences it is likely that cineTSE coupled with systolic and diastolic pressures will provide a mechanism for measuring arterial wall compliance. Motion of the cerebrospinal fluid in the cervical spinal cord is also evident.

An additional advantage of a cineTSE sequence is that the data acquisition may be almost identical to a standard TSE sequence. As a result many of the motion correction techniques for non cardiac related motion developed for standard TSE sequences can be easily applied to the cineTSE sequence. Because many k space lines have multiple averages this data can be used to help detect corrupted data. Additionally data from adjacent data lines can also be used to detect corruption from patient motion. Since undersampled data is already being obtained it is not a significant problem if a few lines of data need to be discarded due to non cardiac related motion corruption. As with many sequences significant amounts of non cardiac related motion may pose a problem. In even though 20 of the data was discarded due to corruption the cineTSE sequence produced images relatively free of cardiac motion artifact.

While this study focused on cineTSE of the neck the sequence may be easily applied to other regions of the body including the heart where motion synchronized to the cardiac cycle is observed. Further this technique could easily be adapted to other sequences such as where a constant TR value and or continuous scanning is required. Embodiments may also be adapted to perform with high resolution 3D sequences.

Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

