---

title: Smart widgets
abstract: According to some example embodiments, a method includes based, at least in part, on one or more signals representative of user-defined content, assessing the user-defined content and storing one or more signals representative of a result of the assessment of the user-defined content. The method further includes selecting one or more widgets for presentation in combination with other content associated with the user-defined content, the selecting being based at least in part on the assessment of the user-defined content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009152&OS=09009152&RS=09009152
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09009152
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100204
---
Sponsored search is a large and rapidly growing advertising platform and a major source of revenue generated over the Internet by search engine companies. With a high volume of Internet searches performed every day search results web pages may represent a commercially viable advertising medium allowing advertisers to achieve complex advertising goals e.g. build brand awareness attract specific customers target segmented markets generate web traffic implement behavioral targeting etc. .

Many modern search engines may still implement user interfaces and software architectures that were popularized more than a decade ago. With these legacy interfaces and architectures publicly accessible web pages may be crawled analyzed indexed or deployed using thousands of machines. When a user submits a query to interact with such a legacy search engine the search engine may analyze the query select pages matching the query terms rank the selected pages then return a pre determined number of the selected pages to the user. The search engine may summarize the returned pages with fragmented sentences and highlighted matching terms.

These search engine design choices may have been efficient when computer power was relatively limited and multi media content was scarce but they favored software efficiency over a quality of a user s search experience. Users are expected to read fragmented sentences that may not be organized in any recognizable structure. If the user is not satisfied with the returned results most search engines may not offer much in the way of aid except for showing a few popular related queries. These search engines usually expect the correct syntax and vocabulary when a user submits a query. It is not surprising that when a user searches on an unfamiliar subject she may feel lost or frustrated.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Some aspects of legacy search engine design and architecture that may negatively impact a quality of a user s search experience were described above. Since an amount of revenue that a search engine generates from sponsored search advertising may be directly related to a quality of a user s search experience it may be beneficial to increase a quality of a user s search experience.

Accordingly as Internet commerce evolves and computing power increases it may be desirable to utilize user defined content to provide more refined search options solicit feedback from users present more structured results present more high quality results that are protected by passwords and or personalize or tailor the user s search experience to generally enable a better search experience for the user while the user interacts with a search engine. At a higher level of abstraction it may be desirable to utilize user defined content to anticipate a user s intent and offer choices to the user that improve quality of the user s online experience.

As used herein User Defined Content hereafter UDC may refer to one or more signals representing any source code search query search result advertisement file communication and or data that may be rendered by a special purpose computing platform in response to a user input.

As a non limiting illustration UDC may include a web page an e mail message an IM or text message an Extensible Markup Language XML document a media file e.g. a graphical advertisement etc. and or the like and any combinations thereof. UDC may also include one or more embedded widgets or references e.g. hyperlinks to text images audio video and or other web pages.

As used herein a widget may refer to an element of a Graphical User Interface hereafter GUI that provides to a user of a special purpose computing platform an interaction point for manipulation of data. In particular embodiments widgets may provide basic visual building blocks which if combined in an application access at least a subset of the data processed by an application and provide at least one way for a user to manipulate the subset of data. A widget may include for example a window a text box or a drop down menu.

As used herein a special purpose computing platform may refer to any type of electronic device capable of transmitting displaying or presenting UDC to a user who is operating the electronic device. Thus a special purpose computing platform may include but is not limited to a server a mainframe computer having multiple access terminals or workstations a desktop computer a notebook or laptop computer a hand held wireless device a pager or a mobile telephone.

In particular embodiments UDC may include for example a search query that is submitted by a user to a search engine an email or text message that is received by the user or sent by the user a web log or blog entry that is published by the user or a web page that is presented to the user in response to the user selecting a hyper link or typing a web address in a web browser.

Before describing some example embodiments in greater detail the sections below introduce certain aspects of an example operating environment computing or otherwise in which UDC may be used to anticipate a user s intent and offer choices to the user that improve quality of the user s online experience. It should be appreciated however that techniques provided herein and claimed subject matter is not limited to these example implementations. In addition any implementations and or configurations described herein as example are described for purposes of illustration and are not to be construed as preferred or desired over other implementations and or configurations.

Considering the enormous amount of information available on the World Wide Web it may be desirable for a user of mobile device laptop computer or desktop computer to employ a search engine service that may be implemented by server to help such a user locate and efficiently retrieve one or more web documents that may be of particular and or possible interest to the user.

As a way of illustration a user of mobile device may submit or otherwise specify one or more search terms e.g. a query into a search engine that is implemented by the server using a GUI that is included as part of the mobile device. In this case the query submitted by the user may be considered UDC.

In response mobile device may receive from server a web page that may include a set of search results listed in a particular order. A web page may then be displayed or presented to a user of mobile device using the GUI. A user may subsequently access another particular web page by clicking on a hyperlink or other selectable tool embedded in or otherwise associated with such a web page.

According to example embodiments a web page including a set of search results that are received from server may also include one or more widgets that may be clicked by a user. As will be explained in greater detail below according to example embodiments widgets may utilize UDC to increase a quality of the user s search experience.

As used in the present application click or clicking may refer to a selection process made by any pointing device such as for example a mouse track ball touch screen keyboard a laser pointer a stylus a touch sensitive display a microphone and voice recognition software or an ocular tracking system that detects and tracks the movement of a user s eyes to determine which area of a display screen the user s eyes are focused upon or any other type of device operatively enabled to select one or more web documents for example within a search results web page via a direct or indirect input from a user. Thus while this disclosure may at times for convenience refer to a process of a user selecting a widget or hyperlink as clicking or a user s selection of a widget or hyperlink as a click the disclosure is not strictly limited to selecting a widget or a hyperlink by clicking a button on a mouse.

As another illustration a user of laptop computer may decide to use laptop computer to run an application such as a web browser which when launched may display a predetermined web page. A particular predetermined web page may also be referred to as a home page. A user may subsequently access another particular web page by clicking on a hyperlink or other selectable tool embedded in or otherwise associated with a home page. A user s home page or other web pages accessed by a user may also be considered UDC.

Server may be capable of monitoring a home page or other web pages that are accessed by a user. This may occur for example if server was operated by a user s Internet Service Provider or ISP. According to other example embodiments server may insert one or more widgets into a web page that is viewed by a user. As will be explained in greater detail below according to example embodiments these widgets may utilize UDC to increase a quality of a user s online experience.

Method begins with process where UDC is assessed. As explained above UDC may include search terms submitted to a search engine by a user. UDC may also include web pages that are viewed by a user based upon a user s inputs to a web browser. Additionally UDC may include email text or Internet Messenger IM messages that are displayed to a user. Thus the email text or IM messages may include for example messages that were authored by a user or messages that were authored by another and sent to a user.

According to some example embodiments UDC may be assessed by a special purpose computing platform such as for example server of . In some embodiments server may be operated by an internet search engine. In other embodiments server may be operated by an ISP. In other alternative embodiments server may be operated by a web based email provider.

An assessment of UDC may include a variety of tasks which may depend at least in part on a nature of particular UDC that is being assessed. For example in a case where UDC includes a user submitted search query that is submitted to a search engine assessing such UDC may include parsing the search query using linguistic and semantic analysis to recognize any entity that is included in the query and estimate the user s query intent.

In a case where UDC includes a web page that is viewed by a user with the aid of a web browser assessing the UDC may include extracting page titles paragraph titles and or meta descriptions of the web document. Assessing UDC may further include removing verbs and or stop words to extract the subject terms. Resulting phrases may then be treated as a user s search query and an intent of a user s query may be estimated.

In some cases UDC may include an email text or IM message. This situation may be handled in a similar manner as the case when UDC includes a web page. That is assessment of the email text or IM message may include removing verbs and or stop words in the body of message to extract subject terms. Extracted subject terms may then be treated as a user s search query and an intent of the user s query estimated.

Next in process one or more widgets may be selected based at least in part on an estimate of the user s intent that was arrived at as a result of assessing the UDC at process . Again a widget selection process may be performed by a special purpose computing platform for example a server of . In some embodiments a server may select one or more widgets from a library of widgets that are maintained by the server. In other embodiments a server may select one or more widgets from widget libraries that are maintained by third party sources. In still other embodiments a server may select one or more widgets from both local and third party sources.

Server may additionally determine how the selected widgets are to be rendered or displayed to a user. Ultimately one or more selected widgets may be displayed to a user alongside other content that is associated with UDC. For example suppose a user submits a search query that based on the above described process stages results in three particular widgets being selected. Such selected widgets may then be rendered simultaneously and in conjunction with a traditional search results web page which is typically in the form of a vertically ordered list of results.

According to some embodiments an order in which selected widgets are displayed to a user may also be controlled based upon one or more predetermined criteria. As used herein an order of selected widgets may refer to a placement or position of a particular widget on a GUI relative to other widgets if any. For example in some embodiments widgets may be disposed in a vertical arrangement. Based upon at least one predetermined criteria a widget that is estimated to be most desirable may be placed in a topmost position in a vertical arrangement while a widget that is estimated to be the next most desirable widget may be placed in a position that is just below a widget in the topmost position of the vertical arrangement. Similarly and in other embodiments selected widgets may be disposed in a horizontal arrangement with a most desirable widget according to at least one predetermined criteria placed in a position that is a left most position relative to a user that is viewing such a horizontal arrangement of widgets.

According to example embodiments one or more predetermined criteria used to determine an order in which selected widgets are displayed may include a content relevancy of a widget a preference of a user and a revenue potential of the widget.

As used herein a content relevancy of a widget may refer to how closely a widget matches a deduced intent of a user s query. For example suppose a user submits a query with terrors Groom Lake and Nevada. Based on an assessment of this particular query further suppose that three widgets are selected for rendering alongside a vertical search result web page. In one particular example such widgets may include a mapping widget allowing a user to obtain driving directions from a selected spot to Groom Lake Nev. a tourism widget containing a list of attractions and sight seeing stops in relatively close proximity to Groom Lake Nev. and an informational widget for the United States Air Force. Based on a history of similar searches previously submitted by other users the informational widget for the United States Air Force may be emphasized or rendered more prominently compared to the mapping widget or the tourism widget.

Such emphasis upon one or more particular widgets compared to the other selected widgets may be accomplished in a variety of ways. For example selected widgets may be ordered as discussed above. Additionally one or more selected widgets may be rendered in a different color and or rendered in a larger physical size compared to other selected widgets.

As used herein a preference of a user for a widget may refer to a frequency at which a user has selected a given widget in the past. For example continuing with the three example widgets that were described above if it is known that a particular user selects a mapping widget over any other sort of widget at least 50 of the time that the user is presented with a choice between a mapping widget and another widget besides a mapping widget then according to example embodiments a mapping widget may consistently be rendered more prominently e.g. appearing first in a horizontally or vertically arranged group of widgets than other widgets for that particular user.

As used herein a revenue potential of a widget may refer to how much revenue a widget may generate for an entity e.g. search engine ISP or web based email provider that operates a server . As discussed above a server may select widgets from among a library of widgets that is maintained and or controlled by server . Widgets that are maintained and or controlled by server may be said to be native relative to an entity that operates server . Alternatively or in addition to native widgets server may also select from among third party widgets that are developed maintained and or owned by a third party entity other than an entity that operates server . An entity that operates server may agree with a third party entity to render a selected number of third party widgets in conjunction with its native widgets in exchange for a payment. A relatively small payment may be due from a third party entity based upon for example a user selecting a third party widget that is rendered by server . Native widgets may themselves not directly generate revenue for an entity that operates a server when they are selected by a user but selection of such a native widget may itself direct a user to other UDC e.g. search results that do provide revenue for an entity. Statistics regarding the performance of a particular widget either third party or native may be kept over time to develop records of how much revenue is generated by such a widget per unit time. In particular embodiments these records may then be used to determine a relative ranking of selected widgets.

In the following paragraphs a description of a system architecture in accordance with example embodiments is presented. The described system architecture may be suited for implementing among other things process stages illustrated and described in conjunction with . The described system architecture may also be suited for implementing among other things server of . The described system architecture is presented using functional blocks or modules and those of skill in the art will recognize that the described functional modules may be implemented with software firmware hardware or combinations of the same. Furthermore it should be understood that this is merely an example system architecture presented for the purposes of discussing a particular embodiment and that claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Query analysis module may receive as input both user generated queries e.g. search queries that a user submits to a search engine and subject terms that are extracted from web pages that are displayed to a user. Using these inputs query analysis module may perform an entity recognition function where names organizations locations and or products may be extracted from a submitted query. Query analysis module may perform an entity recognition function by matching a sequence of query terms against a pre built name dictionary to extract an entity. Query analysis module may also perform an entity recognition function by matching a pattern of query terms against a pre built pattern dictionary to extract an entity. Query analysis module may also perform an entity recognition function by employing a machine learned model that is capable of recognizing an entity in a query. Query analysis module may also perform an intent recognition function on the user generated query if a user s web activity history is available. Query analysis module may perform an intent recognition function by pattern matching a user s query against a sequence of queries. Query analysis module may also perform an intent recognition function by employing a machine learned model that uses a user s previously submitted queries and click activity as inputs for deducing the user s intent.

Outputs of query analysis module may comprise a user s query itself any entity tags that query analysis module has found and or any query intent tags expressing a deduced intent. These outputs may then be sent to widget container for further processing.

In particular outputs from query analysis module may be sent to invocation module of the widget container . A widget developer may specify conditions under which a widget is to be triggered. These conditions may be embodied in a query dictionary a pattern dictionary or both for example. A query dictionary may specify one or more queries that are sufficient to a trigger a particular widget. A pattern dictionary may specify one or more entity tags one or more query intent tags or a combination of both that are sufficient to trigger a particular widget. By comparing outputs of query analysis module against a query dictionary or a pattern dictionary an invocation module may determine which particular widgets should be used. Invocation module may also employ a machine learned model that determines a widget s triggering condition. The output of invocation module may specify one or more widgets that are to be triggered.

Authentication module of widget container may interface with a vertical engine that may request a user supply a login to obtain access to a service associated with such vertical engine. In such a case authentication module may also cache a user s credentials with a vertical engine in order to avoid repetitive login.

Business logic module may define what functions a widget is to perform when it is selected by a user as well as define a widget s user interface for example a drop down menu or one or more selection buttons. Depending on a widget s access rights business logic module may access the granted Application Programming Interfaces hereafter APIs offered by the underlying system.

In particular business logic module may tailor a widget based on a user s inputs a user s profile or a user s web activity. If a user s click history and profile are available business logic module may pre fill a search box or pre select a search option for a user. Additionally or alternatively business logic module may determine which search options questions or dialog to display in a widget. Business logic module may achieve this tailoring using a set of pre defined user patterns. For example business logic module may select a particular search option if a user is male and may select another particular search option if a user is female. Alternatively business logic module may achieve this tailoring using a real time model capable of capturing more sophisticated and dynamic user behavior.

Business logic module may additionally specify a preview content of a widget. That is business logic module may specify which data if any is to be displayed if a user causes a cursor to pass over a particular widget without actively selecting the particular widget.

Business logic module may additionally specify which if any selections worksheets calculators or other relevant information from vertical engine are to be displayed by a widget. In a case where vertical engine is associated with a password protected site a business logic module may serve privileged contents from the vertical engine . For example a social search widget designed to search for people may show matches from a password protected site e.g. Facebook or LinkedIn. In addition a business logic module may reformulate or rephrase a user s query to form a new query to be submitted to a vertical engine .

Ranking module of widget container may rank activated widgets according to a user preference of a widget and or a content relevance of a vertical search result with respect to an associated query. For example a user may specify explicitly e.g. via a user populated profile or implicitly e.g. via a user s past history a preference for a mapping widget relative to a shopping widget. As another example a user may explicitly specify e.g. via a user populated profile that selected widgets are to be placed in alphabetical order.

A ranking module may use a machine learned model to predict a content relevance of a result that would be returned by a widget with respect to an associated query. A machine learned model may use training examples that are collected through supervised and or unsupervised learning. For example supervised learning may include sending some random sampled queries to a widget for the resulting documents. The relevance of resulting pairs may be judged manually e.g. by a person and used as training examples for the machine learned model. Unsupervised learning may include collecting query sessions where a widget was clicked and its results consumed. Information obtained from such collecting may include for example a query a widget click widget results obtained as a result of a user click on a query and a frequency at which obtained widget results were selected by users. Such information may reflect a relevance of widget results as perceived by actual users which can then be used as training examples for the machine learned model.

A rendering module of widget container may render the HTML XTML DHTML javascript or dom codes of the activated widgets and integrate them in a web document such as for example in a Search Engine Result Page SERP . The look and formatting of a SERP may be controlled by a few Cascading Style Sheets CSS files. Thus it may be preferable for the widget font widget size and widget color to also be determined by the CSS files. According to some embodiments widgets may not be rendered with embedded scripts in order to avoid performance degradation and security loopholes. An output of rendering module may comprise a result page or a web document that is capable of being displayed to a user.

A session manager module of widget container may manage a user profile a user session and a user browsing activity. This may be accomplished by utilizing a browser cookie. A widget may access user session data through communication with a session manager module . User session data may be useful for tailoring a widget to a particular user s needs and deducing a user s query intent.

A transaction manager module of widget container may manage a user initiated transaction with a third party server. For example a user may select a buy button on a widget to purchase a product or a service. Transaction manager may enforce an all or nothing operation on a vertical engine. That is transaction manager module may interact with a third party server to ensure that a user transaction is completed. If a third party server returns a failure on a user transaction transaction manager module may roll back or remove all transaction related activity from a widget.

A security manager module of widget container may monitor any abnormal or malicious activity on activated widgets. Security manager module may also control an access domain for one or more activated widgets. Security manager module may accomplish these tasks by implementing an access control mechanism. For example such an access control mechanism may include tracking and enforcing access rights on data and communication for each widget. Such an access control mechanism may also include tracking and administrating any server that a widget connects to as well as restricting user data that is to be transmitted to a third party server.

A logging module of a widget container may log widget activities and user activities. For example logging module may log widget actions such as data access and remote communication. Logging module may additionally log a user inputs and clicks. These logged data may be used for example to improve content relevance to understand user query intent and to detect ill behaved widget activity or other abnormal activity.

Next in the paragraphs presented below some specific examples of widgets in accordance with numerous example embodiments are described and explained with reference to accompanying figures. Those of skill in the art will recognize that these example widgets are just a few of the myriad variety of widgets that may be implemented in accordance with the teachings found herein.

Screenshot illustrates another useful aspect of some example embodiments. In screenshot a third party widget is labeled as Ask. As used herein a third party widget may refer to a widget whose content is not controlled by an owner of a web page where the widget appears. Such an Ask widget may allow a user to post a question to the third party site. Outsourcing certain utilities or specialized search capabilities to third party sites in this manner may provide an additional source of revenue to the owner of a web page.

Screenshot illustrates that according to some embodiments widgets may include one or more drill down widgets. An example of a drill down widget is illustrated in screenshot by the Shopping widget which shows that if a user selects a Shopping widget using cursor such a Shopping widget may provide a number of input boxes allowing a user to directly input additional desired details for a netbook such as a user s desired price for a netbook. Thus according to some embodiments a widget may directly seek or prompt input from a user in order to obtain more precise search results. As a user selects the shopping widget with cursor a pop up box may also show additional information regarding selected netbooks.

As illustrated Local widget may also display personal information associated with a user such as a user s address city state and or zip code. This information may be provided by a user upon establishing an account with a web based email application. Use of a user s personal information in this manner may allow a Local widget to anticipate the needs of a user and tailor a user s online experience based at least in part upon an anticipated need of a user.

In a particular example embodiment the functionality that was illustrated in the flow diagram of or that was described with reference to may be centrally implemented by the processing unit of the secondary device by executing instructions stored in the primary memory . According to other embodiments the functionality illustrated in the flow diagram of may be distributed across multiple ones of the first second and third devices and that are linked by network . These examples are presented for purposes of illustration and not for limitation thus the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

First device second device and third device as shown in may be representative of any device appliance or machine that may be configurable to exchange data over network . By way of example but not limitation any of first device second device or third device may include one or more computing devices and or platforms such as e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a workstation a server device or the like one or more personal computing or communication devices or appliances such as e.g. a personal digital assistant mobile communication device or the like a computing system and or associated service provider capability such as e.g. a database or data storage service provider system a network service provider system an Internet or intranet service provider system a portal and or search engine service provider system a wireless communication service provider system and or any combination thereof.

Similarly network as shown in is representative of one or more communication links processes and or resources configurable to support the exchange of data between at least two of first device second device and third device . By way of example but not limitation network may include wireless and or wired communication links telephone or telecommunications systems data buses or channels optical fibers terrestrial or satellite resources local area networks wide area networks intranets the Internet routers or switches and the like or any combination thereof.

As illustrated for example by the dashed lined box illustrated as being partially obscured of third device there may be additional like devices operatively coupled to network .

It is recognized that all or part of the various devices and networks shown in system and the processes and methods as further described herein may be implemented using or otherwise include hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

Thus by way of example but not limitation second device may include at least one processing unit that is operatively coupled to a memory through a bus .

Processing unit is representative of one or more circuits configurable to perform at least a portion of a data computing procedure or process. By way of example but not limitation processing unit may include one or more processors controllers microprocessors microcontrollers application specific integrated circuits digital signal processors programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays and the like or any combination thereof.

Memory is representative of any data storage mechanism. Memory may include for example a primary memory and or a secondary memory . Primary memory may include for example a random access memory read only memory etc. While illustrated in this example as being separate from processing unit it should be understood that all or part of primary memory may be provided within or otherwise co located coupled with processing unit .

Secondary memory may include for example the same or similar type of memory as primary memory and or one or more data storage devices or systems such as for example a disk drive an optical disc drive a tape drive a solid state memory drive etc. In certain implementations secondary memory may be operatively receptive of or otherwise configurable to couple to a computer readable medium . Computer readable medium may include for example any medium that can carry and or make accessible data code and or instructions for one or more of the devices in system .

Second device may include for example a communication interface that provides for or otherwise supports the operative coupling of second device to at least network . By way of example but not limitation communication interface may include a network interface device or card a modem a router a switch a transceiver and the like.

Second device may include for example an input output . Input output is representative of one or more devices or features that may be configurable to accept or otherwise introduce human and or machine inputs and or one or more devices or features that may be configurable to deliver or otherwise provide for human and or machine outputs. By way of example but not limitation input output device may include an operatively configured display keyboard mouse trackball touch screen etc.

It should also be understood that although particular embodiments have just been described the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope to a particular embodiment or implementation. For example one embodiment may be in hardware such as implemented to operate on a device or combination of devices for example whereas another embodiment may be in software. Likewise an embodiment may be implemented in firmware or as any combination of hardware software and or firmware for example. Such software and or firmware may be expressed as machine readable instructions which are executable by a processor. Likewise although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect one embodiment may comprise one or more articles such as a storage medium or storage media. This storage media such as one or more CD ROMs and or disks for example may have stored thereon instructions that when executed by a system such as a computer system computing platform or other system for example may result in an embodiment of a method in accordance with the claimed subject matter being executed such as one of the embodiments previously described for example. As one potential example a computing platform may include one or more processing units or processors one or more input output devices such as a display a keyboard and or a mouse and or one or more memories such as static random access memory dynamic random access memory flash memory and or a hard drive although again the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope to this example.

In the detailed description presented above numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the above detailed description were presented in terms of algorithms and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits or binary digital signals stored within a computing system memory such as a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and or representations are the techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations and or similar processing leading to a desired result. The operations and or processing involve physical manipulations of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily these quantities may take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated.

For example one or more portions of a memory device may store signals representative of data and or information as expressed by a particular state of the memory device. In an implementation an electronic signal representative of data and or information may be stored in a portion of a memory device by affecting or changing the state of such portions of the memory device to represent data and or information as binary information e.g. ones and zeros . As such in a particular implementation such a change of state of the portion of memory to store a signal representative of data and or information constitutes a transformation of a memory device to a different state or thing.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals and or the like. It should be understood however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as assessing processing computing calculating associating identifying determining allocating generating and or the like refer to the actions and or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computing platform. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computing platform is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computing platform or similar special purpose computing platform.

The terms and and or and or as used herein may include a variety of meanings that will depend at least in part upon the context in which it is used. Typically and or as well as or if used to associate a list such as A B and or C is intended to mean A B and C here used in the inclusive sense as well as A B or C here used in the exclusive sense. Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of claimed subject matter. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in one or more embodiments. Embodiments described herein may include machines devices engines or apparatuses that operate using digital signals. Such signals may comprise electronic signals optical signals electromagnetic signals or any form of energy that provides information between locations.

While there have been illustrated and described what are presently considered to be example embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but that such claimed subject matter may also include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

