---

title: Medical device with self-healing material
abstract: An electrode assembly for a medical device system includes an electrode, a shunted lead circuit, and a self-healing material integrated into the shunted lead circuit. The shunted lead circuit is designed to shunt currents induced by relatively high frequency radiation, such as MRI radiation. The self-healing material has a conductive layer and a dielectric layer, where the dielectric layer includes at least one of an oxide, an organic coating, and a composite.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442651&OS=08442651&RS=08442651
owner: Medtronic, Inc.
number: 08442651
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100305
---
This application is a continuation in part of International Application No. PCT US2009 042136 filed Apr. 29 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 049 335 filed Apr. 30 2008. International Application No. PCT US2009 042136 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 049 335 are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The invention relates to medical devices and more particularly to self healing components of medical devices such as leads electrodes capacitors protective coatings and insulation for use with implantable medical devices IMDs .

In the medical field implantable leads are used with a wide variety of medical devices. For example implantable leads are commonly used to form part of implantable cardiac pacemakers that provide therapeutic stimulation to the heart by delivering pacing cardioversion or defibrillation pulses. The pulses can be delivered to the heart via electrodes disposed on the leads e.g. typically near distal ends of the leads. In that case the leads may be used to position the electrodes with respect to various cardiac locations so that the pacemaker can deliver pulses to the appropriate locations. Leads are also used for sensing purposes or for both sensing and stimulation purposes. Implantable leads are also used in neurological devices muscular stimulation therapy and devices that sense chemical conditions in a patient s blood or gastric system stimulators.

Another type of IMD is an implantable neurological stimulation device sometimes referred to as an implantable neurostimulator or INS . INS devices can generate electrical stimulation signals that are used to influence the human nervous system or organs. Conventionally the INS devices have been surgically implanted into a patient in a subcutaneous pocket in the abdomen pectoral region or upper buttocks area. Electrical contacts carried on the distal end of a lead are placed at the desired stimulation site e.g. at a location in the spine or directly in the brain and the proximal end of the lead is connected to the INS. The lead typically has one or more insulated electrical conductors filers that connect the electrical contacts or electrodes to the INS. For neurostimulation of the spine or brain the leads may typically have 4 or 8 sets of conductors and electrodes.

It may be desirable to implant the INS at a location in the patient s head in cases where the distal end of the lead is provided at a site directly in the brain. For example it may be desirable to implant the INS under the scalp on top of the patient s head either on top of the surface of the skull or in a pocket formed in the skull .

Deep brain stimulation implants may be used for the treatment of a variety of diseases including epilepsy and Parkinson s Disease. In these devices the electrodes are implanted in the brain of the patient to provide electric stimulation to affected regions of the brain.

Alternatively the leads may be placed in the epidural region of the spine to stimulate the dorsal horn of the spinal cord for the treatment of pain or other diseases such as angina.

Occasionally patients that have implantable leads may benefit from a magnet resonance image MRI being taken of a particular area of his or her body such as to monitor a disease or to diagnose an unrelated injury or disorder. MRI systems use radio frequency radiation in the presence of a strong magnetic field to produce diagnostic images of the patient. MRI techniques can achieve an effective image of the soft tissues of the heart and vascular system. MRI procedures can also image these features without delivering a high dosage of radiation to the body of the patient and as a result MRI procedures may be repeated reliably and safely. However MRI devices may operate at frequencies of 10 megahertz or higher which may cause energy to be transferred to the lead and can produce a voltage that can interact with surrounding tissue.

One embodiment of the invention relates to an electrode assembly for a medical device system. The electrode assembly includes an electrode a shunted lead circuit and a self healing material integrated into the shunted lead circuit. The shunted lead circuit is designed to shunt currents induced by relatively high frequency radiation such as MRI radiation. The self healing material has a conductive layer and a dielectric layer where the dielectric layer includes at least one of an oxide an organic coating and a composite.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a medical device system. The medical device system includes a medical device and a lead. The medical device is adapted to provide an electrical stimulation to a patient. The lead is electrically connected to the medical device and includes at least one electrode assembly. The electrode assembly includes an electrode and a shunted lead circuit. The lead includes a self healing material integrated onto a surface of at least a portion of the lead. The medical device system is designed to control the regeneration rate of the self healing material.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to a medical device system. The medical device system includes an implantable medical device an electrical lead and a self healing material. The implantable medical device has a housing adapted to be implanted within a body of a patient. The electrical lead includes an electrode and is connected to the implantable medical device. The electrode is adapted to perform at least one of sensing electrical activity of an organ of the patient and delivering an electrical stimulation to the organ of the patient. The self healing material is attached to at least one of the implantable medical device and the electrical lead and is designed to repair a breach while implanted within the body of the patent.

Still another embodiment of the invention relates to a method for making a medical device system having regenerative capabilities. The method includes a step of providing an implantable medical device adapted to be implanted within a body of a patient. The method includes another step of providing an electrical lead connected to the implantable medical device. The electrical lead is adapted to perform at least one of sensing electrical activity of an organ of the patient and delivering an electrical stimulation to the organ of the patient. The method includes yet another step of providing an electrical circuit to electrically connect the implantable medical device and the electrical lead. The method includes still another step of providing in the electrical circuit a dielectric material that is designed to be regenerated while implanted within the body of the patient.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method for using a medical device system having regenerative capabilities. The method includes a step of providing a medical device having an electrical circuit to electrically connect the medical device and an electrical lead. The electrical lead is adapted to perform at least one of sensing electrical activity of an organ of a patient and delivering an electrical stimulation to the organ of the patient. The electrical circuit includes a dielectric material that is designed to be regenerated while implanted within a body of the patient. The method includes yet another step of implanting the medical device into the body of the patient. The method includes still another step of connecting the electrical lead to the organ of the patient.

Throughout the present disclosure various medical device systems e.g. system as shown in device as shown in etc. are presented providing a range of context and background relevant to the disclosure. For example some embodiments of the present invention are directed to a medical lead techniques for manufacturing such a lead and systems that include a medical device coupled to a medical lead according to the present invention. However the medical lead and other exemplary systems and devices shown in the FIGURES are only some of the many devices and systems to which the present disclosure may apply.

The device includes a container or housing that is hermetically sealed and biologically inert according to an exemplary embodiment. The container may be made of a conductive material. One or more leads electrically connect the device to an organ or tissue such as the patient s heart via a vein . Electrodes are provided to sense cardiac activity of the organ or tissue and or provide an electrical potential to the organ or tissue such as the heart . At least a portion of the leads e.g. an end portion of the leads shown as exposed electrodes attached to heart tissue may be provided adjacent or in contact with one or more of a ventricle and an atrium of the heart .

The device includes a battery provided therein to provide power for the device . The size and capacity of the battery may be chosen based on a number of factors including the amount of charge required for a given patient s physical or medical characteristics the size or configuration of the device and any of a variety of other factors. According to an exemplary embodiment the battery is a 5 mAh battery. According to another exemplary embodiment the battery is a 300 mAh battery. According to various other exemplary embodiments the battery may have a capacity of between approximately 10 and 1000 mAh.

According to another exemplary embodiment shown in an implantable neurological stimulation device an implantable neurostimulator or INS may include a battery such as those described above with respect to the various exemplary embodiments. Examples of some neurostimulation products and related components are shown and described in a brochure titled Implantable Neurostimulation Systems available from Medtronic Inc.

An INS generates one or more electrical stimulation signals that are used to influence the human nervous system or organs. Electrical contacts carried on the distal end of a lead are placed at the desired stimulation site such as the spine or brain and the proximal end of the lead is connected to the INS. The INS is then surgically implanted into an individual such as into a subcutaneous pocket in the abdomen pectoral region or upper buttocks area. A clinician programs the INS with a therapy using a programmer. The therapy configures parameters of the stimulation signal for the specific patient s therapy. An INS can be used to treat conditions such as pain incontinence movement disorders such as epilepsy and Parkinson s disease and sleep apnea. Additional therapies appear promising to treat a variety of physiological psychological and emotional conditions.

The INS typically includes a lead extension and a stimulation lead . The stimulation lead is one or more insulated electrical conductors with a connector on the proximal end and electrical contacts not shown on the distal end. Some stimulation leads are designed to be inserted into a patient percutaneously such as the Model 3487A Pisces Quad lead available from Medtronic Inc. of Minneapolis Minn. and some stimulation leads are designed to be surgically implanted such as the Model 3998 Specify lead also available from Medtronic. Although the lead connector can be connected directly to the INS e.g. at a point typically the lead connector is connected to a lead extension . The lead extension such as a Model 7495 available from Medtronic is then connected to the INS . Implantation of an INS typically begins with implantation of at least one stimulation lead usually while the patient is under a local anesthetic. The stimulation lead can either be percutaneously or surgically implanted. Once the stimulation lead has been implanted and positioned the stimulation lead s distal end is typically anchored into position to minimize movement of the stimulation lead after implantation. The stimulation lead s proximal end can be configured to connect to a lead extension . The INS is programmed with a therapy and the therapy is often modified to optimize the therapy for the patient i.e. the INS may be programmed with a plurality of programs or therapies such that an appropriate therapy may be administered in a given situation .

According to an embodiment a medical device lead includes a lead body and electrode shaft and a tip electrode. A magnetostrictive element coupled to an electrode shaft serves as an on off switch to manage high frequency RF signals e.g. 21 megaHertz Mhz to 128 MHz generated from a magnetic resonance imaging MRI machine away from the tip electrode. The switch is comprised of a magnetostrictive element made of any suitable material with sufficient magnetostrictive properties. Exemplary magnetostrictive materials include terfenol D or galfenol. Magnetostriction is a property that causes certain ferromagnetic materials to change shape in response to a magnetic field. In particular the magnetostrictive element expands or contracts. When the lead is not exposed to magnetic resonance imaging MRI the magnetostrictive material is contracted. In contrast when the lead is exposed to MRI the magnetostrictive material expands. In one embodiment expansion of the magnetostrictive material causes a first segment to move away from a second segment of the electrode shaft. A gap is created between the first and second segments of the electrode shaft. Therefore current induced in the lead due to exposure to the MRI no longer has a direct electrical path to the tip electrode. Instead the electrical current induced by high frequency passes through a high impedance component such as a radiofrequency RF trap whereas the low frequency current for sensing and or pacing is able to pass to and or from the electrode tip. Consequently a patient with a medical lead may undergo an MRI procedure without significantly affecting the operation of the medical lead.

In another embodiment magnetostrictive material is disposed in or near conductive members that are coupled to the electrode shaft. When the lead is exposed to MRI the magnetostrictive material expands to create a contact to an additional electrode surface which allows the induced current to dissipate over a larger surface area. In one embodiment a tenfold i.e. 10 larger surface area ratio results in about tenfold lower temperatures at the tip electrode assuming a ring electrode has low impedance at high frequencies. The principles described herein are applicable to all types of medical electrical leads. For example the disclosure applies to cardiovascular leads e.g. high voltage leads low voltage leads etc. neurological leads or other suitable applications. Any size of lead can be used such as a size 13 French lead or less.

Sleeve head optionally a RF shunted sleeve head is electrically connected to a conductive electrode shaft e.g. platinum etc. via two parallel conductive members e.g. C rings etc. a conductive sealer also referred to as a sealing washer and a magnetostrictive element insulated with insulative layer see for example . Insulative layer is comprised of for example hydrolytically stable polyimide commonly referred to as Langley Research Center SI LaRC SI commercially available from Imitec located in Schenectady N.Y. Other insulative materials can also be used such as fluoropolymers polytetrafluroethylene PTFE tetrafluroethylene ETFE etc. thermoplastics polyether ether ketone PEEK polyethersulfone PES etc. and ceramic oxides alumina tantalum oxide etc. . At a proximal end of electrode assembly coil is electrically coupled to conductive electrode shaft . In another embodiment electrode shaft is made of nonconductive polymeric material.

Sleeve head comprises a conductive element surrounded or at least partially covered by an insulating material also referred to as a dielectric material . In one embodiment conductive element is cylindrically shaped e.g. ring etc. or may possess other suitable shapes. Exemplary dimensions for conductive element include a diameter of about 6.5 French Fr. by about 9 millimeters mm in length an outer diameter of about 82 mils and an inner diameter of about 62 mils. Conductive element in one embodiment includes an increased diameter at the distal end and a reduced diameter at the proximal end of the conductive element . The surface area of conductive element is about 60 mmwhich is much larger than the 5.5 mmsurface area of electrode . Conductive element comprises materials that are chemically stable biocompatible and x ray transparent. Exemplary material used to form conductive element includes tantalum tantalum alloys titanium titanium alloy conductive polymers any combination these materials and or other suitable materials.

Referring to insulative material may be formed from a single layer or multiple layers such as first layer second layer and N layer where N is a whole number that is less than 100 and is typically less than about 30 layers. Each layer may comprise different insulating materials two or more different insulating materials or the same insulating materials. Insulative material includes a thickness from about 1 nanometer nm to about 1 millimeter mm and extends from about 1 mm to about 20 mm along the length of conductive element . Insulative material may be formed from any of a wide variety of insulating materials. Exemplary insulating materials comprise at least one or more of parylene polyamide polyetheretherketone PEEK ceramics ceramic composites polymer composites metal oxides polyimide urethane silicone tetrafluroethylene ETFE polytetrafluroethylene PTFE or the like. Parylene is a preferred insulating material . The preferred parylene is parylene C. Parylene C is formed through a dimer vacuum deposition process. The dimer is commercially available from Specialty Coating Systems located in Clear Lake Wis. Numerous techniques may be employed to introduce insulating material over the outside of sleeve head and or partially inside sleeve head . Exemplary techniques include physical vapor deposition chemical vapor deposition dip coating spraying electrophoretic deposition or thermal extrusion.

Conductive sealer conducts current and also prevents fluid from passing through lumen . Referring to conductive sealer is substantially ring i.e. o ring or disk shaped but other suitable shapes may also be employed. In one embodiment conductive sealer is defined by X X and radius r . X can range from about 0.1 mm to about 0.50 mm X can range from about 0.1 mm to about 1.0 mm and r can range from about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm. Curved end extends to about 1.25 mm from the center of shaft and includes a curve defined by a radius of about 0.5 mm.

Conductive sealer comprises a polymer and a conductive polymer such as a conductive powder e.g. carbon carbon nanotube silver platinum etc. . The conductive polymer can range from about 1 to about 25 of conductive sealer . The polymer e.g. silicone etc. is commercially available from Nusil Technology LLC located in Carpinteria Calif. Polyurethane is commercially available from The Polymer Technology Group Inc. located in Berkeley Calif.

Conductive members are shaped in one embodiment as a ring e.g. C ring etc. to receive conductive sealer . Conductive members can have an outer diameter of about 1.5 mm an inner diameter of about 0.7 mm and a thickness that ranges from about 0.25 mm T to about 0.5 mm T . Conductive members can be comprised of platinum or other suitable materials.

In one embodiment magnetostrictive element is coupled to at least one conductive member specifically a conductive ring. When lead is exposed to MRI magnetostrictive element expands which creates a larger surface area in which to dissipate the current induced in lead .

In another embodiment as depicted in magnetostrictive element is disposed between first and second segments of electrode shaft . The magnetostrictive element may be coated with an insulative material layer such as polyimide in a cylindrical shape of approximately 0.5 mm 2.0 mm in diameter by 1.0 mm 4.0 mm long and bonded at the ends of segment . The outer surface of members may also maintain contact through an elastic member assembled on the outside diameter. No gap exists between first and second segments when MRI is not applied to lead as shown in . When lead is exposed to MRI magnetostrictive element expands causing first segment to move away from second segment thereby creating a gap as shown in . Gap breaks the direct electrical connection between first and second segments and the tip electrode . Instead the current induced by MRI is shunted to a RF trap. In particular high impedance inductor L connected to the electrode shaft blocks the high frequency RF signals. L passes the low frequency pacing signals from one end to another end of the electrode shaft . Therefore the high frequency RF signals experienced during MRI are shunted by the magnetostrictive element as shown in .

Bipolar shunted lead circuit includes ring electrode magnetostrictive element and tip electrode . Capacitors C and C correspond to ring electrode and tip electrode respectively and inductor L is associated with magnetostrictive element . Resistor R represents the impedance created by tissue and or blood of the patient. R represents impedance or resistance associated with coil . R and R along with capacitors C and C represent the electrode to tissue interface impedances. Vrepresents the device ground to the body whereas Vrepresents the voltage of the pacing current. Generally larger area electrodes result in larger values of capacitance and smaller values of resistance. Exemplary values for bipolar shunted lead circuit include L C at 10 microF uF L is 4 uHenry R is 100 Ohm C is 1 uF and R is 500 and R is .

Bipolar shunted lead circuit operates when the patient is not exposed to a MRI procedure or during a MRI procedure. When MRI conditions are not present and pacing pulses are required by a patient pacing current is generated from C or C and passes through first and second segments as shown in greater detail in . Thereafter the pacing current passes through tip electrode ring electrode and back to medical device housing .

When a patient is exposed to a MRI procedure a MRI current I is transferred from tip electrode through ring electrode back to medical device housing which avoids or substantially prevents the MRI from affecting the operation of lead from delivering electrical stimuli i.e. pacing pulses to the patient. If the patient requires pacing during the MRI the pacing current typically generated from C passes through an inductor L depicted in and thereafter passes through tip electrode ring electrode and then back to medical device housing .

Unipolar shunted lead circuit includes magnetostrictive element and tip electrode . Capacitor C corresponds to tip electrode and inductor L is associated with magnetostrictive element . Resistor R represents the impedance created by tissue and or blood of the patient. R represents impedance or resistance associated with coil . R along with capacitor C represent the electrode to tissue interface impedance.

Generally under typical pacing conditions pacing current flows from C or C through tip electrode and then returns to IMD circuit . Under a low frequency or DC application inductor L acts like a short circuit to a constant voltage across its terminals. A portion of the pacing current passes to the patient s tissue e.g. heart tissue represented as resistor R due to the large capacitance of C associated with tip electrode . When lead is exposed to MRI Iis induced as depicted by the ghost lines. As shown the Iis transferred from tip electrode back to medical device housing . If the patient requires pacing during an MRI procedure a pacing current is generated from C or C and passes through inductor L shown in tip electrode back to medical device housing .

At block the RF is prevented from affecting the sensing operation of the medical lead. In one embodiment the magnetostrictive element reduces by at least 80 percent the current induced in the lead by the MRI. In another embodiment the magnetostrictive element reduces by at least 50 percent the current induced by the MRI.

A possible issue with the use of materials that function as a capacitor to shunt energy induced in an electrode assembly such as in the embodiments described above in regard to is the performance of these materials after they have been implanted or during their use with a patient. For example the materials forming a capacitor could suffer damage and such damage could diminish performance of the capacitor.

According to some embodiments damage caused to components of medical devices such as capacitors insulations conductors electrodes and other components may be repaired or healed when self healing materials are used to construct the components or self healing materials are provided in the form of protective coatings or layers upon the components. Some self healing materials may be used to compensate for damage to component materials e.g. materials of a capacitor of a medical device because the self healing materials can re grow or regenerate e.g. controlled oxidation corrosion chemical reaction etc. upon a damaged area thus fixing mending healing or reducing damage caused to the component materials. Other self healing materials can migrate or chemically diffuse to a damaged area and subsequently harden thus repairing the damage caused to the capacitor or other component. According to an exemplary embodiment the self healing materials may regenerate or self heal while in service such as while implanted within or on a patient.

In other exemplary embodiments a layer of polymer insulation may be coupled to a conducting layer within a medical device or other device. Depending upon the particular application and use the layer of polymer insulation may be susceptible to various modes of failure. For example typical failure modes for polymer insulation layers include chemical instability or degradation e.g. metal ion oxidation MIO environmental stress cracking ESC with polyurethanes etc. abrasive wear adhesive wear cold flow or creep under compression or other loading conditions cyclic fatigue with bending compression or other loads and various processing conditions that may affect the integrity of the polymer materials such as phase separations gels or other discontinuities pin holes sub optimal chemical physical mechanical or electrical properties etc.

Referring back to and in other embodiments electrical leads for medical devices may be used to stimulate systems of the body or to sense bodily activity see e.g. lead as shown in . Such electrical leads may be employed for defibrillation see e.g. medical device system as shown in neurological stimulation see e.g. medical device system as shown in heart pacing cardiac resynchronization therapy CRT etc. There is the possibility that electrical leads may fail via various modes and as such the electrical leads benefit from construction with redundant or self healing materials. For example modes of potential failure for conductors employed by electrical leads include overstress e.g. during torquing of a coil to extend a fixation helix in a screw in lead low and high cycle fatigue under bending excessive compressive or tensile loading conditions corrosion weld crimp joint failure etc.

While shows a conducting layer and a dielectric layer for a capacitor layers of materials may be similarly arranged and used with other medical device systems and components. In some embodiments electrical leads of medical devices include layers of materials such as a regenerative insulator layer and a regenerative conductive layer. In other embodiments housings or casings for implantable medical devices may include an insulator layer and a structural layer a protective coating and a conductive layer a biocompatible layer and a thermal insulator layer or other combinations of layers. In still other embodiments layers may be configured in three layer arrangements four layer arrangements alternating striped layer arrangements and other configurations of layers. In such arrangements one or more of the layers may comprise regenerative or self healing materials where a scratched surface or breached layer may be re sealed healed or repaired for example.

Referring to according to an embodiment the capacitor includes a dielectric material that may be regenerated or re grown via anodization passivation or oxidation. For example the dielectric material can be regenerated or re grown via anodization passivation or oxidation of the conductor . In some embodiments a pulsed voltage filtered through a diode positive or negative facilitates the anodization passivation or oxidation processes in a material having an oxidized outer surface with an interior volume of a different phase or chemical composition as will be further explained. In other embodiments a biocompatible layer of a housing or structure of a medical device may be controllably regenerated or re grown via anodization passivation or oxidation. In some applications anodization passivation or oxidation allows for biocompatibility of an outer surface to be maintained preventing unintended corrosion unintended tissue contact weakening of materials etc.

According to a further embodiment the conductor or other component of a medical device is formed from or made with an inorganic material. For example the conductor may be made of a metal and in particular the conductor can be made of a metal such as for example tantalum titanium hafnium yttrium niobium zinc beryllium aluminum zirconium tungsten rhenium and their alloys. According to one embodiment the dielectric material or other structure or layer is made of an oxide corresponding to the material of the conductor or other structure or layer. For example the dielectric material can be made of oxides such as for example tantalum oxide titanium oxide hafnium oxide yttrium oxide zinc oxide beryllium oxide niobium oxide aluminum oxide zirconium oxide tungsten oxide rhenium oxide and oxides of an alloy used for the conductor . In some embodiments an electrical lead for a medical device includes a conductive substrate formed from tantalum with tantalum oxide as an inorganic self healing insulator material. Such an arrangement may self heal after a breach to the tantalum core i.e. substrate by spontaneously forming a tantalum oxide layer.

In some exemplary embodiments a conductor or electrode see e.g. electrodes discussed with regard to is formed from tantalum tantalum oxide or comprises a tantalum or tantalum oxide layer or coating. The tantalum or tantalum oxide layer may serve as a redundant insulation layer and may also serve as a self healing layer if the insulation layer were breached in service.

Fracturing of conductor surfaces may produce fracture surfaces that provide electrical noise generated by intermittent contact with adjacent wiring. The electrical noise may result in over sensing and inappropriate delivery of defibrillation shocks with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator ICD lead for example. However in some embodiments tantalum or tantalum oxide structures coatings or layers which have fractured form an insulating oxide coating on the fracture surface that may serve to reduce minimize or eliminate electrical noise. In other embodiments other self healing materials e.g. titanium hathium yttrium niobium zinc beryllium aluminum zirconium tungsten rhenium and their alloys and oxides and other materials may serve to reduce electrical noise.

In some embodiments medical device components may be susceptible to cracking and failure due to cracking. In such components self healing materials and layers of self healing materials may be used to blunt cracks in an early phase of their development e.g. initiation nucleation etc. prior to or concurrent with crack propagation. For example self healing layers of in metallic conductors or polymeric insulators used in electrical leads for medical devices may fill and blunt a crack tip reinforce an area stressed by cracking and or fill in a cracked surface after the crack has propagated. In some embodiments the materials may utilize conduits or channels within layers of the material to migrate liquid forms of active matrix materials to seal the cracks e.g. microvascular networks of passive materials containing flows of resin matrix .

According to another embodiment the dielectric material may be a composite or an organic coating that is applied over a conductor made of a metal. For example the dielectric material may be formed from a nanocomposite of nanoparticles polymer particle or polymer nanoparticle composites or other materials in which an insulating entity or particle network can migrate or diffuse to damaged areas to regenerate or re grow materials e.g. dielectric materials in the damaged area. Nanoparticles or particles can be made of for example tantalum oxide titanium oxide niobium oxide aluminum oxide zirconium oxide tungsten oxide rhenium oxide and oxides of an alloy used for the conductor as discussed above. In other embodiments nanoparticles may be embedded in layers of thermoplastic dielectric materials.

In some embodiments the dielectric material can be made of an active composite layered system in which layers of a passive coating matrix are alternated with layers that include an active coating component that promotes self healing of the composite layered system. For example the composite layered system may be constructed using soft lithographic and direct write assembly methods where the layers are printed onto a substrate in a precise arrangement producing a network of channels and conduits for active matrix material e.g. a microvascular network . Passive layers are printed to the substrate in a layer by layer sequence where active matrix material e.g. epoxy resin polyester vinyl ester etc. is then infiltrated into the passive layers. In at least one embodiment the conduits have approximately a 200 micrometer diameter. In other embodiments a vascular or microvascular network with wider or narrower conduits is used. The active coating is designed to wick to cracks via capillary action and to clot the cracks or other such openings in the composite layered system e.g. similar to coagulation of blood carried by capillaries to clot a scratch or cut of skin .

Some embodiments employing microvascular networks allow for continuous delivery of the self healing materials e.g. epoxy or resin matrix providing an ability to regrow or regenerate dielectric materials in areas of the capacitor or other materials layers coatings etc. used with other components of medical devices that are repeatedly damaged. In such embodiments a reservoir or pocket of active material may supply the microvascular channels. Additional disclosure relating to self healing materials may be found in Self Healing Materials with Microvascular Networks by K. Toohey et al. published in volume 6 pages 581 585 in August of 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In other embodiments a composite layer or system may include a matrix embedded with nanocontainers providing a self healing ability for the layer or system. In some embodiments the nanocontainers contain active coating components for promoting self healing. Accordingly the nanocontainers can rupture upon application of a stimulus thus releasing the active coating components contained by the nanocontainers. Exemplary stimuli include heat acoustic vibration UV light electrical stimulation chemical reaction etc. In other embodiments nanocontainers providing active materials are deposited in a material that additionally contains deposits of a catalyst that is separated from the active material by the substrate e.g. ring opening metathesis polymerization of dicyclopentadiene with Grubbs catalyst mixture of hydroxyl end functionalized polydimethylsioxane and polydiethoxysiloxane epoxy with amine catalyst etc. . During rupture the active materials are released from the nanocontainers and contact the catalyst. The active materials then solidify filling the rupture crack breach etc.

In some embodiments the nanocontainers may be designed to be at least semi permeable to the active coating components or the nanocontainers may be configured to release the active coating components through another method known in the art such as those as described in Layer by Layer Assembled Nanocontainers for Self Healing Corrosion Protection by D. Shchukin et al. published in volume 18 pages 1672 78 on Jun. 27 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety or Self healing Polymeric Materials A Review of Recent Developments by D. Wu et al. published in volume 33 pages 479 522 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and which also provides other forms and systems of self healing materials that may be compatible with the disclosure provided herein.

In still yet another embodiment the dielectric material can be made of any biocompatible material including biocompatible oxides having prescribed qualities. Specifically dielectric materials that are both biocompatible and have a dielectric constant in the range of 1 to 100 are suitable. However particular dielectric layer thicknesses and surface areas of some embodiments vary as a function of selected materials. For example a particular surface area and a particular layer thickness may be arranged such that their ratio is linearly proportional to a desired capacitance for the capacitor where the constant of proportionality of the linear relationship just described is directly related to the dielectric constant of the selected material. In various other embodiments dielectric strength is designed to vary as a function of the particular medical device and application e.g. approximately 10 to 100 V DC for low voltage applications and more than 1000 V DC for high voltage applications .

Regeneration or re growth of capacitor material such as dielectric material can occur during use of a medical device system. For example voltage pulses produced when an electrode assembly is used for pacing can simultaneously affect the materials of the conductor and the dielectric causing these materials to migrate or diffuse. According to this example pacing voltages can cause capacitor materials to migrate or diffuse to a damaged area such as a damaged area in a dielectric layer . Migrating or diffusing materials can anodize passivate or oxidize at the damaged area causing the capacitor material to regenerate or re grow. For example a damaged area such as a scratch can create an area of increased current density which in turn increases the regeneration or regrowth rate of capacitor material due to anodization passivation or oxidation. The rate of self healing depends upon voltage magnitude and polarity material selection and arrangement and a particular type and degree of damage. In some embodiments an increased voltage pulse magnitude increases the rate of self healing.

According to a further embodiment a medical device system can be configured so that the regeneration or re growth rate of a self healing capacitor material such as a dielectric material is controlled. For example a pacing mode of a medical device system typically produces voltage pulses of alternating negative and positive polarity. When such pacing voltage pulses are used to migrate or diffuse capacitor materials to a damaged area one polarity of the voltage pulses may be more useful than others due to the characteristic ionic charge of the capacitor materials. For example a positive voltage can be used to cause capacitor materials to migrate or diffuse to a damaged area and be further anodized passivated or oxidized thus regenerating or re growing the capacitor materials. Conversely negatively charged voltage pulses may cause little growth no growth or even inhibit further growth or regeneration. Therefore a medical device system can be configured to control for example voltages applied to a self healing capacitor material in order to control the regeneration or re growth rate of the self healing material. The same or a similar approach may be used with self healing materials of other components of medical devices such as insulating coatings structural components electrical leads etc. that utilize an electric stimulus to initiate re growth.

According to a further embodiment the voltage applied to the materials of a capacitor is controlled in order to control the regeneration or re growth rate of the capacitor materials. For example a device that controls direction of current flow such as a diode may be used to control the voltage that is applied to the materials of a capacitor . In a further example a diode may have the attributes described in Schottky Barrier Diodes for General Purpose Applications a technical data publication by Agilent Technologies which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety or another commercially available diode or electrical control system.

According to an exemplary embodiment the current flow control device is further configured to control the direction of current flow so that negative voltage pulses are blocked and not applied to the capacitor materials. By blocking negative voltage pulses the current control device can be configured to promote the regeneration or re growth of self healing capacitor materials. As described the self healing materials heal when positive voltage pulses are applied. Accordingly negative voltage pulses which may inhibit regeneration or re growth are not applied to the self healing capacitor material. As shown in the example of the current flow control device can be connected between the capacitor and the tip electrode . Furthermore the device can be configured so that the device has a low impedance to RF currents induced during MRI but a high impedance to a selected voltage pulse polarity during a pacing operation of a medical device system. According to another embodiment the current flow control device is configured to permit application of negative voltage pulses to capacitor materials and to block positive voltage pulses.

According to an exemplary embodiment the current flow control device is configured to have a sufficient reverse bias voltage rating to withstand a potential of a voltage pulse that the device is configured to block according to a further embodiment. For example the current flow control device should have a reverse bias voltage rating of at least approximately 10V i.e. if the potential of a blocked pulse is 10V . In another example the current flow control device should have a reverse bias voltage rating of at least approximately 20V.

According to an exemplary embodiment the current flow control device can also be configured so that the forward bias voltage rating is at a minimum in order to permit maximum transfer of current when the voltage pulse that the device is configured to pass is applied. For example the forward voltage rating of the device can be approximately 0.41V. In another example the forward voltage rating of the device can be approximately 150 mV.

According to an exemplary embodiment the wattage rating of the current flow control device should be sufficient to withstand the current conducted by the device . For example the device can have a wattage rating of approximately 100 mW. In another example the device can have a wattage rating of approximately 250 mW. Furthermore a device can have combinations of these rating values.

In other embodiments stimuli other than or in combination with electrical pulses are used to controllably regenerate or promote re growth e.g. filling of cracks etc. . For example some stimuli and catalysts include temperature e.g. heat UV light or electromagnetic radiation acoustic vibration release or contact with embedded substances e.g. catalyst fatigue loading tensile shear or compressive stress or pressure etc. For example in some embodiments implanted medical devices may fill or repair cracks as a result of repeated compressive forces such as repeated or sustained pressing of sidewalls of a crack together. In other embodiments a region of lower pressure in a self healing material such as an area surrounding a gouge in a multvascular network may induce migration of resin or other migrating or diffusing materials to fill the gouge. In still other embodiments UV light may be applied to the implanted material such as a dental implant to regrow or self heal materials serving as a biocompatible insulator protective coating decorative facade layer etc.

It is understood that the present invention is not limited for use in pacemakers cardioverters of defibrillators. Other uses of the innovations described herein may include uses in patient monitoring devices or devices that integrate monitoring and stimulation features such as INS devices. In those cases the leads may include sensors disposed on distal ends of the respective lead for sensing patient conditions.

The leads described herein may be used with a neurological device such as a deep brain stimulation device or a spinal cord stimulation device. In those cases the leads may be stereotactically probed into the brain to position electrodes for deep brain stimulation or into the spine for spinal stimulation. In other applications the leads described herein may provide muscular stimulation therapy gastric system stimulation nerve stimulation lower colon stimulation drug or beneficial agent dispensing recording or monitoring gene therapy or the like. In short the leads described herein may find useful applications in a wide variety medical devices that implement leads and circuitry coupled to the leads.

Various embodiments of the invention have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example electrode may include variously shaped electrodes such as ring shaped or other suitable shapes. Additionally skilled artisans appreciate that other dimensions may be used for the mechanical and electrical elements described herein.

