---

title: Document representation transitioning
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for transitioning between representations of an electronic document. Elements, such as visual elements, common between a first set of elements from a first representation of the document and a second set of elements from a second representation of the document are identified. The non-intersecting elements from the first and second sets are respectively ranked in accordance with a representation relevance. First set non-intersecting elements are removed from an intermediate representation of the document, and second set non-intersecting elements are added to the intermediate representation, while the intermediate representation is not equivalent to the second representation; and respective iterations of the intermediate representation are output, such as to a display to depict a transition from the first representation of the document to the second representation of the document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08584011&OS=08584011&RS=08584011
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08584011
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100622
---
Electronic documents such as word processor based documents spreadsheets webpages etc. can be displayed on a computing device s display e.g. monitor screen in a variety of visual representations. Users often interact with different representations of electronic documents including webpages emails and word processing documents. For example search engines can represent pages resulting from a query as textual snippets possibly with titles a query based page summary and or a URL. Similarly in browsers and other applications previously viewed webpages can be represented in many ways including as thumbnails titles in a user s history captions within search results URLs in the address bar and or colored hyperlinks for example many of which can be interacted with by a user.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Different representations of electronic document have been developed to support different tasks users may wish to perform with the documents. Different representations may be used when a person interacts with a variety of electronic documents such as when sending retrieving email browsing web based or local search results or finding a document to edit in one s file system for example. The different visual representations of the documents often contain elements of the full document that assist the user in interacting with the represented document. For example search results often include the document s title a query based short summary and the document s URL desktop icons often comprise the document s title and an icon representation of the document type or a small thumbnail view of the document and emails may comprise a subject sender and sometimes a preview of the message.

While electronic document representations are useful there are possible drawbacks to current static representations. For example it is often difficult for a user selecting e.g. opening a first representation resulting from a web search for example to connect the information presented in the first representation e.g. snippet icon with summary etc. with the full document. For example the first representation e.g. snippet for a search result may include a sentence of text from the full document leading the user to conclude the result is relevant. However when the user opens the document associated with the result it may be difficult for the user to identify where content related to that sentence is actually located in the document.

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed that facilitate orienting the user to a second representation of a document when the user transitions from a first representation of the document. A type of semantic zoom can be implemented between document representations where a display of the document transitions smoothly between two different representations. The transition can be performed in a way that allows the user to maintain a context developed with the first representation of the document when interacting with the second representation of the document. For example varying amounts of relevant content can be provided between the different representations.

In one embodiment for transitioning between representations of an electronic document elements in an intersection between a first set of elements from a first representation of the document and a second set of elements from a second representation of the document e.g. elements common to both sets are identified. Those elements that are not part of the intersection e.g. non intersecting elements that are not common to both sets are ranked according to representation relevance in both the first and second sets. In one example intersecting elements may be ranked as well generally very highly as they are typically displayed . Nevertheless one or more common elements may be removed or not displayed for example to create visually cohesive elements for animation purposes for example.

While an intermediate representation of the document which comprises a representation between the first and second representations is not the same as the second representation of the document the following acts are iterated non intersecting elements from the first set are removed from the intermediate representation if they meet a desired removal threshold for representation relevance ranking further non intersecting elements from the second set are added to the intermediate representation if they meet a desired addition threshold for representation relevance ranking and the intermediate representation of the document is output e.g. to a display .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

For example turning briefly to one embodiment where one or more techniques described herein may be implemented is illustrated. As an example the first representation of the document may comprise a webpage and the second representation of the document may comprise a snippet such as found in web based search results e.g. returned in response to a user entered query . It will be appreciated that in one embodiment the first representation may be the snippet and the second representation may be the webpage for example.

In this example embodiment the first representation webpage and second representation snippet respectively comprise a set of visual elements that make up the visual representation of the document. The set of elements for first representation of the document may comprise different graphics of cycles a top headline for Al s Cycle Shop a top and a side navigation bar comprising tabs or links that can be clicked on a search box a smaller headline Welcome To Al s Cycle Shop a text block and a contact information block for example. The set of elements for the second representation snippet of the document may comprise the top headline Al s Cycle Shop some text identifying it as the home page the smaller headline Welcome To Al s Cycle Shop a n abbreviated text block and a URL for the webpage.

In this example the intersection of elements between the first set of elements from the first representation and the second set of elements from the second representation of the document can be identified as the top headline Al s Cycle Shop the smaller headline Welcome To Al s Cycle Shop and a portion of the text block Providing cycling needs world wide on the web and locally to the San Diego Carlsbad San Marcos areas of . In this example this set of intersecting elements can comprise the visual elements common to both sets e.g. common to both representations of the document . It will be appreciated that intersecting elements can be identified even if they are not identical between representations. For example there are three instances of Al s Cycle Shop in and two instances of Al s Cycle Shop in where at least some of the instances may vary e.g. be un bolded between the different representations. To identify which if these different instances line up between the different representations DOM objects and or differences between DOM objects for the respective instances can be consulted for example 

Returning to at of the exemplary method non intersecting elements in the respective first and second sets are ranked according to representation relevance such as visual representation relevance for example. In one embodiment representation relevance can indicate how relevant a particular element is to the representation of the document. That is for example when transitioning between a full webpage representation of the document and a snippet representation of the document e.g. as illustrated in some elements may have higher relevance to a particular representation e.g. may be more important or salient for the particular representation than others and therefore can be ranked accordingly. Moreover the relevance of a particular element may vary between representations. For example a particular element may have a high relevance in a first representation a low relevance in a second representation but then a high relevance again in a third representation. In this manner as a transition occurs between representations e.g. from full webpage to snipped a particular element may appear disappear and then reappear for example.

Further in one embodiment merely those elements such as visual elements that are not part of the intersection of the two sets of elements e.g. not common to both sets are ranked for the respective sets. For example the first set of elements from the first representation comprises a subset of intersecting elements e.g. common to the second set and a subset of non intersecting elements e.g. not common to the second set . In this example the second set will also have two subsets intersecting and non intersecting. In this embodiment merely the elements in the subsets of non intersecting elements are ranked by representation relevance.

It will be appreciated that representation relevance is not limited to any particular embodiment and can be determined as a default measure or provided by a user or administrator. In one embodiment the representation relevance may be determined empirically through observation such as by identifying what users prefer. For example representation relevance can be determined by size and type of font prominence of graphics placement of text or graphics on the page and other metrics that allow interpretation of relevance. Further in one embodiment representation relevance can be determined by a size of the representation. For example the second representation of comprises a smaller bounding area than that of the first representation . In this example those elements that are too large to fit inside this reduced bounding box may comprise a lower representation relevance. Further in another embodiment the relevance of the elements can be learned for example by observing user interaction patterns with the representations.

At in the exemplary method of an iterative flow of the method can proceed while an intermediate representation of the document between the first and second representations is not equivalent to the second representation of the document e.g. not a full page or snippet representation . In one embodiment the exemplary method provides for a transition from the first document to the second document for example and a display of a visual representation of the transition can be provided such as by displaying various iterations of an intermediate representation of the document. Therefore in this embodiment while the transition has not reached the point of the second representation the iteration over the intermediate representation is performed for example.

At first set non intersecting elements are removed from the intermediate representation of the document for those first set non intersecting elements that meet a desired removal threshold for representation relevance ranking e.g. are below a desired relevance value for the representation . In one embodiment an initial intermediate representation can be set to be equivalent to the first representation e.g. most least granular . In this way for example the intermediate representation is changed iteratively during the transition such as by removing and or adding elements until it is equivalent to the second representation of the document e.g. least most granular .

At second set non intersecting elements are added to the intermediate representation of the document for those second set non intersecting elements that meet a desired addition threshold for representation relevance ranking. For example those elements from the second set that are not common to the first set are ranked and those that meet an addition threshold of representation relevance e.g. are above a desired relevance value for the representation are added to the intermediate representation.

In this way for example with respective iterations the intermediate document becomes more visually representative of the second representation and less visually representative of the first representation. The intermediate representation is output such as to a display at . For example the intermediate representation comprises a transitional representation between the first and second representations. Therefore in this example with respective iterations a transitional representation can be displayed where each output comprises fewer first set non intersecting elements and more second set non intersecting elements.

Having iteratively output the intermediate document until it is equivalent to the second representation of the document the exemplary method ends at .

At in this embodiment the user selects one of the returned search results. For example commonly online search providers represent results as snippets as illustrated by of which show the user a small amount of information associated with a URL . In this example the user can select the snippet which comprises the first representation of the document discussed above as the second representation where the document comprises the webpage for Al s Bike Shop which comprises the second representation of the document discussed above as the first representation . Therefore for example the transition comprises going from the first representation the snippet to the second representation the full webpage . It will be appreciated that one or more of the aspects provided herein are likewise applicable to going from the full page back to the snippet or from the second representation back to the first representation.

At in the exemplary embodiment elements e.g. visual elements from the first representation snippet and elements from the second representation webpage are identified. As described above the elements for the first representation snippet may comprise a version of the top headline Al s Cycle Shop some text identifying the document as the home page a smaller headline Welcome To Al s Cycle Shop a text block and a URL for the webpage. The elements for the second representation webpage of the document may comprise three different graphics of cycles a large top headline for Al s Cycle Shop a top navigation bar and a side navigation bar a search box a smaller headline Welcome to Al s Cycle Shop a text block and a contact information block.

At those elements that are common to both representations e.g. intersecting elements of the first set and second set are identified. For example in this embodiment the common elements between the first representation and the second representation can comprise the text of the top headline Al s Cycle Shop the text of the smaller headline Welcome to Al s Cycle Shop and a portion of the text block Welcome to Al s Bike Shop Providing cycling needs world wide on the web and locally to the San Diego Carlsbad San Marcos areas of. Therefore in this example the non common elements between the representations e.g. non intersecting elements of the first set and second set can comprise for the first representation snippet text identifying the document as the home page and the URL for the webpage. The non common elements for the second representation webpage can comprise the three different graphics of cycles the top navigation bar and the side navigation bar the search box some portions of the text block and the contact information block. Additionally for example non common elements may comprise text or graphics features such as highlighting bolding underlining frames sizes etc.

At the non common elements in the respective representations are ranked according to representation relevance. As described above representation relevance is not limited to any particular embodiment. In one embodiment representation relevance may comprise using relevance features such as document features document search features global preferences and user related preferences. For example document features can comprise font style location in document etc. where text that is larger and or bolded and or placed first in the document may have a higher relevance than text that is smaller and or that appears later in the document for example.

Further as an example document search features can comprise contextual features related to a task for the user such as when a user searches e.g. locally remotely in storage or online for documents related to a particular task the search terms found in the document that are the same as or similar to the searched task may have a higher relevance than other terms. Additionally global preferences and user related preferences can influence relevance for example where default settings e.g. global may be applied to give higher relevance to certain elements e.g. logo of a favorite team and or users may apply personalized settings to give higher relevance to desired element types e.g. images vs. text .

In one embodiment representation relevance can be determined according to visual relevance of an element to the representation of the document. For example a document feature may comprise a particularly prominent graphic e.g. image displayed at the top of the document. In this example this graphic may be more visually relevant than a smaller graphic displayed at the bottom of the document. Further representation relevance can be determined according to text matching relevance related to the document search. For example if particular query terms are identified in the document those terms may have a higher relevance. Additionally representation relevance can be determined according to contextual relevance to search related information. For example a context for the search can be determined and terms themes and or tags etc. that are found in the document to match the search context can have a higher relevance.

In one embodiment representation relevance can be determined using machine learning techniques to assign relevance. For example user interaction patterns can be used to determine relevance. Elements of a representation that users interact with frequently may be assigned higher relevance for example while those interacted with less frequently may be assigned a lower relevance for example. In one embodiment user interactions can be detected by click through events or some other e.g. page events that identify user interaction for example.

At in the exemplary embodiment the non common elements for the first representation snippet are ranked according to a representation relevance score and the non common elements for the second representation webpage are ranked according to a representation relevance score. In one embodiment the representation relevance can be determined and corresponding score can be assigned. For example a score from zero to one hundred may be used such as by adding scores for particular features where those elements having more desired features of relevance may receive a higher score. The score for the elements is not limited to any particular embodiment and those skilled in the art may devise alternate scoring techniques. For example a score between one and ten may be applied where an element having a score of one comprises a highest ranked element. It will be appreciated that relevance can be assigned not only to individual elements but to sets of elements as well. For example there may be some structure e.g. determined by DOM structure s and or visual convention s to a representation that can be used to assign relevance to sets of elements.

In one embodiment a rank can be pre assigned to an element in a representation which may be pre set based on a desired visual representation. For example a designer of the document may wish to have a particular feature prominently displayed in any representation of the document. In this example the designer may assign a highest score or rank to the element so that it is featured in the first and second representations e.g. and any intermediate representations .

In one embodiment the element s rank can be pre determined such as by a default or global setting for a particular type of document e.g. webpage such as to promote display of the document s main heading for example. Further the element s rank can be determined dynamically e.g. on the fly for example at a time the document is selected or retrieved. As an example when a user performs a search e.g. on a local machine or on a remote server using query terms a rank for elements that match the one or more of the query terms can be determined at the time the document representation is selected e.g. clicked on by the user to open . In one embodiment the element s rank can be learned using machine learning techniques as described above for example where user interactions with elements for example can be used to determine ranking.

In another embodiment one or more intersecting elements can also be ranked according to representation relevance. In this embodiment one or more intersecting elements may or may not be included in one or more of the intermediate representations. For example one or more common elements may be removed in order to create visually cohesive elements for purposes of smooth animation. In this embodiment one or more intersecting elements can be ranked and those that meet a desired threshold for a particular representation may be included in that particular intermediate representation whereas those that do not meet a desired threshold for a particular representation may be omitted from that particular intermediate representation for example.

Additionally it will be appreciated that an element of a document is not limited to any particular embodiment but is merely intended to describe some part or group of parts of a document. For example a document can comprise some structure e.g. determined by DOM structure s and or by visual conventions s to a representation. In one embodiment the structure can comprise a set of parts e.g. more than one element to which relevance can be assigned.

At in the exemplary embodiment the intermediate representation is set to be equivalent to the first representation snippet as described above for this example. At for respective intermediate representations a desired addition threshold and or a desired removal threshold can be determined at . In one embodiment a desired threshold may be determined dynamically for respective intermediate representations based on features of the intermediate representation. That is for example elements that may be relevant to a first intermediate representation may not be as relevant to a second intermediate representation. Further in this example elements that may not be as relevant to the first intermediate representation may be more relevant to a second intermediate representation. In this way in this embodiment the desired threshold can be adjusted according to a particular intermediate representation.

In one embodiment the desired removal threshold and or the desired addition threshold can be set for a representation relevance ranking of the elements based on a physical display dimension for the intermediate representation of the document. For example the first representation snippet has a smaller physical display dimension e.g. a snippet size than the second representation e.g. a full webpage . Further during a transition between the first and second representations of the document for example the intermediate representation s can comprise bigger or smaller transitional display dimension sizes.

Turning to example embodiments of intermediate representations of a document are illustrated. The representation of may comprise an intermediate representation between the first representation snippet and the second representation webpage . As an example the representation comprises a larger display dimension than the first representation snippet . In this example the desired addition threshold may be set at a relevance score level that can include larger and or more elements to fit inside the display dimension of the intermediate representation . It will be appreciated that one or more of are referenced herein again for purposes of explanation.

Returning to at non common elements from the second representation webpage are added to the intermediate representation e.g. which is set as equivalent to the first representation snippet during the first iteration through the loop to . As an example in the intermediate representation comprises additional text from the text block which is not common to the first representation snippet but is an element of the second representation webpage . At non common elements from the first representation snippet are removed from the intermediate representation. For example the underlining of Al s Cycle Shop is not common to the second representation webpage but is an element of the first representation snippet so this underlining is removed.

After adding elements from the second representation and removing elements from the first representation at if the intermediate representation is equivalent to the second representation e.g. have completely transitioned from the snippet to the full webpage the loop ends at where the second representation is output. However at if the intermediate representation is not equivalent to the second representation the intermediate representation is output. For example a first intermediate representation for a transition between the first representation snippet and the second representation webpage can comprise of .

At for the intermediate representation thresholds are determined at and non common elements are added and or removed from the intermediate representation at and as described above. As an example after outputting the first intermediate representation a bolding and underlining of the text WELCOME TO AL S CYCLE SHOP and a size increase of the top headline are added and the URL and the text Home Page are removed from the first intermediate representation . In this example a resulting second intermediate representation can comprise of . Because the second intermediate representation is not equivalent to the second representation at the second intermediate representation is output at and a next iteration occurs at .

A third intermediate representation may comprise of for example. In this example a search box and top navigation bar have been added and no elements have been removed. If ranked elements of a representation do not meet a desired threshold they may not be added or removed. In this example none of the first representation elements met a desired removal threshold therefore none were removed from the second intermediate representation. A fourth intermediate representation can comprise of for example. In this example a side navigation bar and a top cycle graphic are added to the third intermediate representation.

A final intermediate representation may comprise the second representation for example where the remaining non common elements from the second representation webpage are added to the fourth intermediate representation . At because the fifth intermediate representation is equivalent to the second representation webpage of the document the loop ends at where the second representation is output.

In one embodiment outputting the intermediate representation s of the document can comprise outputting intersecting elements and added non intersecting elements. For example the intermediate representations and comprise merely those visual elements that are common to both the first representation snippet and second representation webpage and non common elements from the second representation webpage that have been added to the previous iteration of the intermediate document.

Further in one embodiment outputting the transition from a first visual representation of the document e.g. snippet to a second visual representation of the document e.g. webpage can occur where the first visual representation of the document comprises a subset of elements from the second visual representation s set of elements such as where the snippet merely comprises some of the elements of the webpage e.g. so that no non common elements from the snippet would have to be removed when transitioning up to the full webpage . Additionally the transition from the first to the second representation may occur where the second visual representation of the document comprises a subset of elements from the first visual representation s set of elements.

In the exemplary embodiment at for respective intermediate representation outputs animation is generated that comprises a transition between a prior output representation and a current output representation or a first visual representation of the document and a second visual representation of the document. That is for example animation can be created that provides a smooth visual transition between the intermediate representation previously output e.g. intermediate representation of and an intermediate representation currently output e.g. intermediate representation of . At the transition between the outputs e.g. intermediate representations can be displayed such as on a computer display with the generated animation.

In one embodiment generating the animation for a transition between the first visual representation and the second visual representation can comprise generating common element animation. In this embodiment common element animation can animate a transition between an intersecting element in the first visual representation and the second visual representation where the intersecting element has a different representation in the different visual representations. For example in the first intermediate representation AL S CYCLE SHOP is displayed in a small font whereas it is displayed in a much larger font in the second intermediate representation . In this example an animation can be created to display a smooth transition between the font sizes. For example the text element of Al s Cycle Shop may be common between first and second representations but the formatting elements e.g. bolding underlining font size may be unique to one representation or the other. Since the text element is common merely the formatting elements may be ranked and added or removed as appropriate. For example elements unique to a first representation of Al s Cycle Shop may comprise bold underlined all caps and font size 16 and elements unique to a second representation of Al s Cycle Shop may comprise title capitalization and font size 10. Accordingly transitioning from the first representation to the second representation may comprise a first intermediate representation where the font size is reduced from 16 to 14 a second intermediate representation where bolding is removed a third intermediate representation where the font size is reduced from 14 to 12 a fourth intermediate representation where underlining is removed a fifth intermediate representation where the font size is reduced from 12 to 10 and a sixth intermediate representation where all caps is changed to title capitalization e.g. capitalize merely first letters as opposed to all letters to arrive at the second representation comprising the text Al s Cycle Shop with font size 10 and title capitalization. In one example to reduce the font size the font size may be represented as elements of the first representation Font size 1 Font size 1 Font size 1 such that respective reductions in font size may effected by iteratively implementing Remove font size 1 operations.

In one embodiment generating the animation for a transition between the first visual representation and the second visual representation can comprise generating non common element animation that animates a removal and or addition of a non intersecting element between the first visual representation of the document and the second visual representation of the document. For example the URL www.alscycleshop.com is removed between the first and second intermediate representations and an animation can be generated that creates a smooth visual transition of the removal. Further as an example the search box is added between the second and third intermediate representations and an animation can be generated that creates a smooth visual transition of the addition.

A system can be devised that may create a displayed transition between two different representations of a document. is a component diagram of an exemplary system for transitioning between representations of an electronic document. A processor such as in a computing device processes instructions for the system.

Operably coupled with the processor is a document element identification component which identifies elements that are common to both a first representation of the document and a second representation of the document e.g. comprised in an intersection of a set of elements from the first representation and a set of elements from the second representation . An element ranking component is operably coupled with the document element identification component for ranking non common elements from the first representation of the document and non common elements from the second representation of the document. The element ranking component ranks the elements according to a representation relevance function for example which can derive a relevance score for an element.

A transitioning component is operably coupled with the element ranking component and document element identification component . The transitioning component generates a transition representation of the document between the first and second representations of the document for example generating a visual transition between the first and second representations. While an intermediate representation of the document is not equivalent to the second representation of the document the transitioning component removes non common elements that are in the first representation from the intermediate representation that meet a desired removal threshold for representation relevance ranking.

Further while an intermediate representation of the document is not equivalent to the second representation of the document the transitioning component adds non common elements that are in the second representation to the intermediate representation that meet a desired addition threshold for representation relevance ranking. The intermediate representation of the document is then output by the transitioning component .

An animation generation component is configured to generate animation that comprises a transition between a first visual representation of the document e.g. intermediate representation one A and a second visual representation of the document e.g. intermediate representation two B . In this embodiment the animation can comprise a common element animation that animates a transition between a common element in the two visual representations. In this embodiment the common element can have a different representation in the second visual representation of the document than it does in the first visual representation of the document.

Further the animation can comprise a non common element animation where the non common element animation may be animation of a removal of a non common element between the first visual representation of the document and the second visual representation of the document. The non common element animation may also be an animation of an addition of a non common element between the first visual representation of the document and the second visual representation of the document.

A threshold determination component is configured to identify a desired removal threshold and or a desired addition threshold. The identification of a desired threshold can be based on a physical display dimension for the intermediate representation of the document e.g. a size of the document representation on a display . Further the identification of a desired threshold can be based on a contextual relevance for the representation of the document such as how relevant particular elements may be to the intermediate representation at a time of output e.g. based on document features and or search features for example.

The element ranking component comprises a feature relevance determination component that provides ranking information. In one embodiment the ranking information may comprise and or be based on visual relevance to the representation of the document e.g. a desired design text matching relevance to a document search e.g. if a query term matches text in the representation and or contextual relevance to search related information e.g. based on a theme of a search . Further the ranking information for the feature relevance determination component may be applied to document features e.g. text or graphics document search features e.g. query terms global preferences e.g. default settings and or user related preferences e.g. user setting .

The element ranking component further comprises a dynamic rank determination component that can dynamically determine an element rank for an element based on contextual relevance of the element at a time of transition between representations of the document. For example a search query may comprise particular terms and or themes that are merely relevant to one or more of the documents returned by the search. In this example a rank for an element in a selected document representation can be determined dynamically based on the search terms or themes for example.

A display device can receive the output intermediate representation A C of the document to provide a transition between the first and second representations of the document. That is for example the exemplary embodiment of the system can output the first representation to the display and further display an animated transition to the second representation comprising the intermediate representations A C. As an example the display device can comprise a computer monitor or any other component or device configured to display computer based graphical content.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of FIG. for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

