---

title: System and method for motor and cognitive analysis
abstract: A cognitive and/or motor skill testing system and method may include a processor that records respective time information for each of multiple positions of a display device that are traced during administration of a test, that determines speed and/or velocity values based on the recorded time information, and that outputs test result information based on the determined values. The test result information may be based on a comparison between a graphed curve of such values to an ideal curve. The positions may correspond to a path between displayed targets whose size and/or distance therebetween depend on past test performance. The system and/or method may output a change expected with a change to therapy parameters for a patient, where the expected change is determined based on changes which occurred in other patients having similar test results and therapy parameters as those of the patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09653002&OS=09653002&RS=09653002
owner: The Cleveland Clinic Foundation
number: 09653002
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101119
---
This application is a 371 national phase application of International Application No. PCT US10 57453 filed Nov. 19 2010 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 262 662 filed Nov. 19 2009 the contents of both of which is are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety their entireties.

Inventions described herein relate generally to a system and method to objectively qualitatively quantify cognitive motor and cognitive motor functioning.

There are various neuromotor and neurocognitive disorders including Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s Disease PD and progressive supranuclear palsy to name a few. Neuromotor and neurocognitive disorders affect motor function cognitive function or both.

In order to properly treat many neuromotor and neurocognitive disorders it is desirable to better understand or classify an individual s condition. Accordingly a variety of tests have been developed for various types of diseases. For example one scale for assessing a patient s Parkinson s disease is the Unified Parkinson s Disease Rating Schedule UPDRS . Various other tests exist that are utilized by a clinician to help the clinician categorize a patient s disorder.

To more efficiently administer and objectively analyze results of such tests computerized systems for administering some of such tests have been proposed. U.S. Pat. No. 6 435 878 the 878 patent proposes a system where a user s reaction time to a stimulus can be measured. However the proposed system does not measure the quality of the user s interaction with the system. The system of the 878 patent also dynamically modifies a presentation time or quantity of a stimulus for the stimulus based on the user s performance but does not qualitatively modify test difficulty based on user performance.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 294 107 the 107 patent similarly refers to a testing system with which user reaction time can be measured. However as with the 878 patent the system does not measure the quality of the user s interaction with the system. The system of the 107 patent also determines based on user performance which tests to administer and whether to terminate a test but does not qualitatively modify a particular test s difficulty based on user performance.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 517 480 the 480 patent refers to a testing system in which a maze trace is detected and an overall time for completion of the test is detected but the system does not provide for any qualitative measurement of the user s performance of the test or for modifying testing difficulty in view of user performance.

Moreover none of the 878 107 and 480 patents provide a system or method for time based testing of a degree of cognitive ability nor do they provide a system or method that presents data regarding a correlation of test results to patient information such as medications the patient is taking and or stimulation parameters used for Deep Brain Stimulation DBS of the patient.

This invention relates to systems and methods for the objective qualitative and quantitative measurement of cognitive motor and or cognitive motor function of a patient. Cognitive tests may include for example one or more of a trail making test Kaplan Baycrest Neurocognitive Assessment test a Mini Mental State Exam and Raven s Progressive Matrices test. This invention also relates to systems and methods for outputting expected changes to test results caused by changes in the patient s environment where the output is based on past test performances. This invention also relates to systems and methods for dynamic qualitative modification of an administered test based on test performance.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide a system and method that qualitatively measure a user s movements when taking a computerized test by recording time information for each of a plurality of positions between start and end positions which positions correspond to a path of the user s movement between the start and end test positions when taking the test and automatically analyzing such information. In particular the inventors have discovered that it is advantageous to sample positional and associated time information at a rate that is double that of typical Malian movement. Specifically in an example embodiment of the present invention the positional and associated time information is sampled at a rate of 30 Hz.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide for determining speed and or acceleration information regarding user movement during and provide a computer administered test. In an example embodiment the system and method further analyzes a quality of the speed and or acceleration for example based on a degree of smoothness and or shape of a curve representing change of the speed and or acceleration over the time period in which the test was taken.

In one example embodiment the system provides a testing system that tracks patient controlled movement such as by storing time and position information responsive to movement of a pointer device e.g. a mouse or stylus or a touch screen that responds to a user s touch performed by a user. The stored time and position information can be evaluated e.g. at a server using a combination of movement analysis techniques to provide corresponding kinematic data and other data representative of the patient controlled movement. The test can be designed to capture data reflecting cognitive and motor functions of the user individually anchor concurrently. The resulting data thus can be utilized to characterize and classify movement patterns for a variety of purposes including diagnosing a movement disorder evaluating a current treatment paradigm tracking progression of a movement disorder providing rehabilitative intervention and optimizing or tuning an intervention.

As a further example the results can be part of a closed bop system to tune stimulation parameters for DBS such as by providing an interface between the local computer where the test is performed and a programmable implantable stimulator which may be manually or automatically manipulated based on analysis results of the administered test s .

Specifically a system and method of the present invention may provide information regarding how changes to patient treatment parameters have affected test results of other patients who have been determined to have similar characteristics of a present patient based on similarities of past test results.

To facilitate use and access the test can be implemented as an Internet based application that can be accessed by an authorized user at a remote location via a predetermined resource locator e.g. a URL . Additionally by implementing the system as a web based application test data can be maintained anonymously for a plurality of patients at a central server to facilitate further analysis and research. For example results of the testing for a plurality of users further can be aggregated to generate a new index for classifying movement disorders or determining the severity of a movement disorder which may or may not be correlated with existing standards such as the commonly used Unified Parkinson s Disease Rating Scale UPDRS . For example a composite score maybe calculated that combines both cognitive performance e.g. related to dwell time or set switching time where set switching time refers to the time taken to refocus attention from one task to another and motor performance e.g. related to straightness of movement which composite score may be useful for simultaneous assessment of both cognitive and motor function. Since the measure would be captured in a standard manner across users the measure may be used to characterize a current user s performance against a larger group of patients. The clinician may use the comparative data to explore effects of various medical interventions and their predicted outcomes.

According to an example embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented testing method may include recording by a processor respective time information for each of a plurality of positions of a display device that are traced during administration of a test determining by the processor a plurality of speed values and or a plurality of velocity values based on the recorded time information and outputting by the processor test result information based on the speed and or velocity values.

In an example method the output information includes a score computed based on the determined plurality of speed and or velocity values.

The method may further include plotting the values as a graph curve and comparing at least one slope of the curve to at least one slope of a stored curve. The score maybe based on the comparison.

The method may include determining derivatives of the velocity values and the test result information may be based additionally on the derivatives. For example the derivatives may include acceleration values.

The method may include generating at least a portion of the test result information by calculating an average standard deviation mean square error and or root mean square error of a difference of a the determined values from ideal values or b derivative values of the determined values from ideal derivative values.

The method may include responsive to the trace of the plurality of positions recording the plurality of traced positions. Each of the determined values may be recorded in association with respective ones of the recorded plurality of traced positions.

According to an example the recorded plurality of traced positions are recorded at a rate of approximately 30 Hz.

According to an example the output information includes a graph that plots the determined values against the recorded plurality of traced positions.

According to an example each of the plurality of traced positions is recorded as a respective pair of an abscissa value and an ordinate value. For each pair of abscissa and ordinate values the abscissa and ordinate values are separately associated with respective ones of the determined values.

In an example method the output information indicates cognitive ability and or motor skill of a user in response to whose movement the plurality of positions are traced.

In an example method the display device is part of a patient terminal the time information is recorded at a server coupled to the patient terminal via a network and the test result information is output at a clinician terminal coupled to the server via the network. In an example embodiment the network includes the Internet.

According to an example embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented testing method may include displaying in a display device a first target and a second target responsive to user input corresponding to a trace of a plurality of positions in the display device which in combination form a path from the first target to the second target recording by a processor respective time information for each of the plurality of positions and determining by the processor and outputting information regarding a cognitive ability and or a motor skill of a user based on the recorded time information.

The method may further include in accordance with at least a portion of the determined information modifying a size of the targets and or a distance between the targets.

Alternatively or additionally the method may further include in accordance with the determined information setting a a size of and or b a distance between a pair of additional displayed targets.

According to an example embodiment dine present invention a computer implemented testing method may include displaying in a display device a first target and a second target responsive to user input corresponding to a path between the first and second targets determining by a processor a cognitive ability and or a motor skill and in accordance with the determined ability and or skill I modifying by the processor a size of the targets and or a distance between the targets and or II setting by the processor a a size of and or b a distance between a pair of additional displayed targets.

According to an example embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented testing method may include in accordance with a test performance history of a user selecting by a processor a a size of and or b a distance between targets of a testing user interface and displaying in a display device the testing user interface including the targets in accordance with the selected size and or distance.

According to an example embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for providing testing information may include recording by a processor a first at least one therapy parameter applied to a patient recording by the processor a first test result for the patient in association with the first at least one therapy parameter and for a user input proposed change to the at least one therapy parameter to obtain a changed at least one therapy parameter searching by the processor for a set of at least one patient for each of whom a the first test result or a respective second rest result that deviates from the first test result by less than a threshold amount is recorded in association with the first at least one therapy parameter or a second at least one therapy parameter that deviates from the first at least one therapy parameter by less than a predetermined threshold amount and b a respective test result is recorded in association with the changed at least one therapy parameter or another respective at least one therapy parameter that deviates from the changed at least one therapy parameter by less than a predetermined threshold amount and outputting by the processor information a indicative of an expected change to the first test result in response to the proposed change to the at least one therapy parameter and b based on the at least one respective test result recorded for the set of at least one patient in association with the changed at least one therapy parameter or another respective at least one therapy parameter.

In an example the output information includes an expected change in a medical condition classification.

According to an example embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for providing testing information may include recording a set of at least one therapy parameter applied to a patient recording a result of a test taken by the patient the recordation being in association with the at least one therapy parameter and for a user input proposed change to the at least one therapy parameter outputting an expected change to the test result for a repeated performance of the test by the patient based an changes to test results of other patients in response to recorded changes to respective sets of at least one parameter applied to the other patients.

According to an example embodiment of the present invention a system for analyzing motor and cognitive functions of a patient may include a display device for providing a graphical user interface GUI and at least one processor configured to present an arrangement of graphical targets on the GUI generate test data responsive to user controlled movement relative to the arrangement of graphical interactive targets and based on the test data compute analysis data including velocity data acceleration data speed data tangential acceleration data and or for a deviation of one or more lines formed by the movement to one or more respective ideal lines an average a mean square error and or a root mean square error for the deviation.

In an example embodiment the test data includes position data representing a plurality of positions corresponding to the movement and temporal information associated with the plurality of positions.

In an example embodiment the at least one processor is configured to compute a respective dwell time for each of at least one of the graphical targets.

In an example embodiment the processor is configured to provide a plurality of different tests during respective test intervals respective analysis data computed for each of the tests and output an indication of motor and or cognitive function collectively based on the analysis data computed for the plurality of different tests. In an example embodiment the plurality of different tests includes at least two of a sevens test a trail making test a clock drawing test a reaction time and subsequent movement task test a center out test an Archimedes spiral test a judgment of line orientation test and tests whose complete renderings are dynamically provided as the user takes the tests.

In an example embodiment the at least one processor is configured to generate a patient GUI a management GUI and a research GUI depending on an assigned user authorization level.

The various methods and system components described herein may be practiced and provided each alone or in various combinations.

An example embodiment of the present invention is directed to one or more processors which may be implemented using any conventional processing circuit and device or combination thereof e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU of a Personal Computer PC or other workstation processor to execute code provided e.g. on a hardware computer readable medium including any conventional memory device to perform any of the methods described herein alone or in combination. The one or more processors may be embodied in a server or user terminal s or combination thereof. The user terminal may be embodied for example as a desktop laptop hand held device Personal Digital Assistant PDA television set top Internet appliance mobile telephone smart phone etc. or as a combination of one or more thereof. The memory device may include any conventional permanent and or temporary memory circuits or combination thereof a non exhaustive list of which includes Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Compact Disks CD Digital Versatile Disk DVD and magnetic tape.

An example embodiment of the present invention is directed to a hardware computer readable medium e.g. as described above having stored thereon instructions executable by a processor to perform the methods described herein and or for storing output data produced via execution of the methods described herein.

An example embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method e.g. of a hardware component or machine of transmitting instructions executable by a processor to perform the methods described herein.

The test engine for example can include a patient information module . The patient information module can be programmed to acquire patient information that can be provided to an analysis engine in the form of patient data . The patient information can include a series of templates or forms e.g. an XML or other document that can be completed by a user using an appropriate user input device such as a keyboard and or mouse and or stylus. Examples of patient information include log in information to authenticate the user with the system such as a log in ID and password. The patient information can also include information about a patient s current health condition as well as information about the environment in which the patient is taking the test. Additional information can be acquired relating to medication that the patient is currently taking including names of medication dosage number of times per day and the time since the last dosage. Those skilled in the art will appreciate various types of forms and constructs that can be utilized to acquire and send the patient data to the analysis engine .

The test engine also includes a calibration module that is programmed to calibrate the system such as for remote operation in which specifics of the users test equipment may be unknown. The calibration component for example can be utilized to ascertain a relative two dimensional size of a display or monitor on which the test is being implemented. For example a graded scale can be graphically rendered onto a display such as a series of spaced apart lines that are provided with a corresponding normalized scale known to the programmer. An article can be provided to the user of a known size e.g. an 8 11 sheet of paper a dollar bill or credit card which can be positioned adjacent to the scale by the user to ascertain dimensions e.g. in both the x and y directions of the user s display according to size of the image being displayed to the user via the graphical user interface . A user can in turn enter the corresponding score into the system as calibration data that is utilized by the analysis engine . Thus by knowing the relative display size for the user s computing device appropriate geometry and position information can be obtained from the subsequent battery of tests to be performed. The analysis engine can employ the calibration data to scale the corresponding testing data consistent with the user s particular test environment e.g. display screen on which the user is taking the test. Specifically the data presented to the user for the test and or the test results may be scaled according to the calibration data. For example accuracy i.e. size of displayed targets and or distances between displayed targets may be modified according to Fitts law in accordance with the user s test environment.

In an alternative example embodiment of the present invention the calibration may be performed by transmitting data for presentation of three or four targets in the user s screen one target at each corner of the screen. The system may record a number of pixels or defined X Y positions between the targets as a representation of vertical and horizontal distances between the targets which distances may be used as calibration data for scaling test data.

Alternatively or additionally certain patient devices can be pre configured having known configurations such that calibration may be omitted. For example devices having a predetermined configuration may be registered with the system. For instance such preregistered devices or terminals can reside at doctors offices at hospitals or other institutions.

In an alternative example embodiment differences in the display screens may be ignored and the test data presented to the user and the test result may be uniform across the various test platforms.

The test engine also includes a plurality of test applications e.g. functions or methods and indicated as TEST I application through TEST N application where N is a positive integer denoting any number of tests. Each test application can be programmed in a manner to test motor and or cognitive functions and or a combination of motor and cognitive functions of a user.

For example the test can be similar to known tests such as a Seven s test described in detail below with respect to a trail making test such as the trail making test parts A and B a clock drawing test and a reaction time and motor task that can be utilized to test appropriate motor and or neurocognitive functions of the user. Other tests with which the test engine maybe programmed may include a center out test which assesses information processing speed e.g. deciding to which target to move and motor performance e.g. quality of movement to a given target an Archimedes spiral test to assess tremor in Parkinson s patients where as the patient progresses outward tremor intends to increase Benton s judgment of line orientation test which measures visuospatial judgment in brain injured patients and tests whose complete renderings are dynamically provided as the user takes the tests. For example a cyclical tracking test may be provided for which a pattern for the user to trace is provided that includes points rendered after the user begins to trace the pattern. For example a sine wave circle or other pattern which changes or moves as the user traces the pattern may be displayed.

Each test application to can be provided to a user computer in an interactive manner that provides interactive graphical objects in the GUI within a hardware display device such as a computer or tablet screen. Such interactivity can be implemented through the use of an action script or other functions or methods that can be provided to the user some of which can vary according to the platform in which the test engine is being implemented for example based on a calibration as described above.

In an example embodiment the test engine can be implemented using the Flash platform such as can be programmed using. ADOBE FLEX software available from Adobe Systems Incorporated. The Flash platform has advantages in that tot example it has an extremely high market penetration and no additional software components are required to be installed on the user s machine such as when the test engine is accessed remotely such as via a web browser of the user s machine. Advantageously the FLEX applications for each of the components of the applications or methods and may provide a stateful client where changes can occur on the display without requiring to load a new web page. Additionally it has been determined that such an implementation allows sufficient resolution of geometry and position data to be acquired such that corresponding test results can be analyzed to provide meaningful information about motor cognitive and cognitive motor function of the user.

Data is acquired for each test application to as corresponding respective test data to which can be provided to and or utilized by the analysis engine . Thus by performing a plurality of multi part tests through each test can provide corresponding test data to that can be analyzed by the analysis engine to provide meaningful information and results based on the test data to .

The test data can include an indication of which test of a plurality of different tests is being performed along with an indication of the position of graphical objects e.g. targets for the test as well as an indication of the position for a cursor or other pointing device that is utilized for performing the test. For example the test application to can employ a get cursor pos or other Application Programming Interface API to monitor and obtain cursor position information that is stored along with temporal information such as the times corresponding to the obtained cursor positions as the test data to . The sampling of such data may be at a rate of for example 30 Hz.

As an example a test application can display on the display a GUI having one or more targets each as a graphical object having a shape e.g. circle oval triangle or rectangle that encompasses or bounds a set of coordinates on the user s display device. A user can position on the display a cursor or other graphical object having its own object position in two dimensional space e.g. having X and Y coordinates for example using a pointing device such as a mouse or stylus for touch screen or without a pointing device such as via a finger on a touch screen. The test application can provide instructions requesting the user to position the cursor object or draw lines between two or more particular targets. The movement of the cursor on the screen relative to the known position of each of the targets corresponding to the test data to can be analyzed by the analysis engine .

The analysis engine may include for example a motor calculator and or a cognitive calculator . The calculators and or may be for example software modules stored on a computer readable hardware device which may be executed to perform various calculations based on the same or different input parameters.

In an example embodiment the motor calculator is programmed to determine a number of one or more kinematic variables based on the test data to . For example the motor calculator can be programmed to determine a position of the cursor or pointer device a velocity an acceleration a speed and or a tangential acceleration for each sample of test data acquired during a test interval. For example the tangential acceleration may be used by the analysis engine as an indication of degree of curvature in user movements.

In an example embodiment the motor calculator can also determine derivative information of the above referenced variables such as corresponding to a measure of how close to the user s line between a pair of targets is fitted to an ideal straight line between the pair of targets. For example for every data point residing on the ideal straight line between sequential targets a distance to a corresponding point on the line drawn by the user can be determined. The sum of the determined distances between the respective points can be determined and divided by the number of points for Which the distances were determined to provide an average associated with the ideal line relative to that drawn by a user. This can be repeated for a line drawn by a user between respective targets to provide an objective indication of the accuracy of lines drawn.

In an example embodiment the motor calculator may further calculate a means square error by determining an average of the error squared for the difference between the ideal and actual lines. In an example embodiment the motor calculator may further calculate the root mean squared error or standard deviation of the difference between the ideal and actual lines for example by calculating the square root of the means square error. Thus the motor calculator can determine various values representative of the average distance that the user s data points on the user s line deviate from the idea line.

In an example embodiment average means square error root means square error and or standard deviation information may be similarly calculated for deviation over the course of a test per each recorded position each separate X position and Y position and or on a per line basis between speed velocity acceleration tangential acceleration etc. between actual recorded values and ideal values for those parameters.

Other information includes whether the user has drawn crossing lines as described below with respect to .

The above is not intended as an exhaustive list of calculations which the motor calculator may perform and other example embodiments provide for calculation of additional or alternative variables and parameters based on the acquired test data to that is sampled over time. The results of the calculations determined by the motor calculator can be stored as part of analysis data . The analysis data can also include calibration data and patient data which can be utilized to improve the accuracy of the calculations by the motor calculator and the cognitive calculator . Alternatively calibration data may be used as described above to alter the administered test so that results of tests administered at different platforms are comparable without requiring further consideration of differences between the platforms e.g. as reflected by the calibration data .

In an example embodiment of the present invention the cognitive calculator is programmed to compute variables or parameters relevant to assessing cognitive function of a patient user. For example the cognitive calculator can compute a dwell time based on the acquired test data and . A dwell time can correspond to a time period during which a cursor or other graphical object is within a given predefined bounded area such as can be defined as an X and Y position or range that encompasses a displayed graphical object or target. The computed dwell time may be used to assess a patient s set switching ability to refocus attention from one task to another for example where dwell time reflects a dwell period in a first target abet initial movement to the first target before moving to the next target. Dwell time may be an indicator of cognitive freezing in neurocognitive or other patient groups. The cognitive calculator can also calculate the reaction time such as corresponding to a time interval between a presentation of a stimulus and the initiation of movement of a pointing device by a user during a reaction test application which can be further utilized by the cognitive calculator to generate a score of the patient s information processing capacity. In an example embodiment of the present invention the cognitive calculator may further use data output by the motor calculator e.g. representative of motor function quality to calculate data representative of cognitive ability.

For example an initial speed or acceleration when leaving a given target to move to a following target may be used as a cognitive measurement in certain instances. For example if the initial phase of movement is relatively rapid with high velocity and acceleration and the user moves to the correct target this information may be used to conclude that the user movement was made primarily under predictive or feedforward control i.e. the user was very sure of where to go . On the other hand if the speed or acceleration is relatively low or there are multiple starts and stops once the user leaves the target the information may be used to conclude that the patient is unsure of the target to which to move indicative of a deficiency in information processing speed especially where other components of the user movements are relatively normal or can be made relatively quickly. It should be understood and appreciated that certain types of calculations may not apply to different types of tests depending upon the main purpose of the test.

In an example embodiment of the present invention the analysis engine can output results of calculations to provide corresponding analysis data . Thus the analysis data can include results data based upon the methods and calculations performed by the motor calculator and or the cognitive calculator based on test data to acquired for each of the respective test applications.

In an example embodiment of the present invention the analysis engine may include an index calculator that is programmed to compute one or more indices based upon the output results determined by the motor calculator and or cognitive calculator for a patient. For example the index calculator can aggregate the analysis data determined for a given set of test data acquired for a given patient to determine an index or score having a value indicative of motor function for the given patient based on the aggregate set of test data. Alternatively or additionally the index calculator can compute an index or score having a value indicative of cognitive function for a patient based upon the set of test data. Alternatively or additionally the index calculator can compute an index or score having a value indicative of cognitive motor function for a patient based upon the set of test data. The index calculator can be normalized according to a known scale or index such as the UPDRS. Alternatively or additionally the index calculator can calculate a new scale that provides an indication of motor and or neurocognitive functions for the patient. The resulting output for the index calculation can be provided and stored as part of the analysis data for subsequent analysis e.g. by a clinician who may access the stored analysis data .

In an example embodiment of the present invention the system may modify factors used for the index calculation based on the corpus of data for a plurality of patients. For example if a large number of users who are considered generally healthy perform poorly on a certain test the test results for that test may be modified by a low weighting factor.

In an example embodiment of the present invention as a user takes one or more tests the system may generate analysis data which indicates that the test s presented to the user are too difficult or too easy for the user. For example where calculated scores are extremely low the scores may indicate that the user is below a certain threshold level of ability but do not finely indicate the user s level of ability below that certain threshold. Similarly where calculated scores are extremely high the scores may indicate that the user s level of ability is above a certain threshold level of ability but do not finely indicate the user s level of ability above that certain threshold.

Accordingly in an example embodiment of the present invention the test engine further includes a module for accessing stored analysis data concerning a current patient and selecting one of the TEST applications 1 N to next output to the user based on past performance indicated by the accessed analysis data. For example where the test engine determines from the analysis data that the user s performance is below a predetermined threshold the test engine may select a next test that is ranked as being at a particular low difficulty level. For example difficulty may be ranked according to target accuracy i.e. the size of the displayed targets e.g. relative to calibrated screen size and or distance between the displayed targets e.g. relative to calibrated screen size . For example a test having targets at a first distance from each other and of a first size may be ranked as easier than another test of the same type having targets that are at a second distance from each other longer than the first distance and or that are of a second size smaller than the first size. In an example embodiment the change in test difficulty may be implemented by re administering the same type of test as a previously administered test with changes to the target accuracy and distances and thus chances in the difficulty level of the re administered test.

In an alternative example embodiment the change in test difficulty may be implemented by selecting a different type of test which test type is ranked at a different difficulty level than that of a previously administered test.

In an example embodiment of the present invention during administration of a test the analysis engine may produce part of the analysis data associated with the test even before completion of the test. During the test the test engine may access the partial analysis data produced for the test prior to its completion and may modify the current test during its administration based on the partial analysis data . For example during the administration of the test the test engine may enlarge previously displayed targets of the test and or shorten the distance between the previously displayed targets. Alternatively or additionally where the test dynamically displays targets during its administration the test engine may display new targets that are larger than those previously displayed or at distances that are shorter than the distances between pairs of previously displayed targets.

In an example embodiment the system server may include a web server having a plurality of different functions and methods each of which can be accessed via a corresponding resource locator such as a uniform resource location URL . In an example the system server includes an access control function that provides a level of security such that only authorized users can access various other functions and methods of the system. The access control function can provide a log in user interface screen to each of the user devices and which can require a user ID and password for each user for authentication. Each user ID and password can be associated with a corresponding level of authorization to selectively provide access to one or more of the other functions and methods to be provided by the server system . While illustrates devices and as separate devices the operations of each may be performed on a single device but may be logically separated according to the log in information. In an example embodiment a single set of log in information may provide authorization for access to operations of more than one of the shown devices and .

For example the user device. can be assigned a high or unlimited authorization level and utilized to provide one or more management user interfaces for accessing each of the functions and methods provided by the server system including accessing corresponding management functions and methods indicated schematically at . Thus the authorized user of the management user interface can access various management functions for the patient information browsing test data and the like. For example the user interface may be a clinician interface via which a clinician may access test results for tests taken by the clinician s patients or other related information. Examples of selected management user interface screens are shown in .

The user device can include a patient user interface that can provide a limited amount of access such as to the testing functions and methods . For example after logging in via the access control function a patient user interface can be used to access the test applications which can be graphically displayed in the patient GUI. The test applications can be provided as interactive web pages programmed with functions and methods for performing various tests and obtaining patient controlled movement information from the patient user.

The test methods that are provided to the patient user device via the patient user interface can be implemented using ADOBE FLEX or another similar software or platform having a high market penetration. By having a sufficiently high market penetration substantially no software needs to be installed or loaded onto an individual user s device. In response to interaction with the tests provided via the test methods test data to may be obtained by the system server for storage in a central data storage described in further detail below . Methods of the analysis engine may be performed locally at the patient user device or remotely at the system server .

Examples of associated graphical user interfaces associated with the testing functions and methods that can be presented to the user are shown and described herein with respect to .

Another user device can include a research user interface that provides access to relevant data e.g. excluding patient identifying information such as to facilitate research and analysis of the test data. For example a researcher or other authorized user can access a set of test data for a plurality of patients and in turn perform statistical methods or other mathematical operations on the set of data to ascertain relevant information such as correlations or likelihoods. A researcher might also utilize the analysis data to draw correlations between other information entered by the user e.g. patient data including an identification of medications dosage and the like relative to test results for each of a plurality of users. Such analysis can provide information that can be stored in the central data storage for subsequent usage and review by other authorized users. For example correlations can be drawn between medication and test results and changes in test results over time which correlations can be presented to a physician or other authorized user via the management user interface .

Alternatively or additionally certain patient devices can be preconfigured having a preset authorization status such that authorization would not be required. Such devices known to the system server can access the system server through the network or through a secure local area network or other suitable connection. For instance such preconfigured terminals can reside at doctors offices hospitals or other institutions.

In an example embodiment regardless of the configuration and distribution of patient user devices the test data is consolidated into a database or other central data storage that is associated with the central system server .

The central data storage can include raw test data and results data . While central storage is shown as a single storage device and or logical storage location in an example embodiment the raw test data may be stored separate from the results data e.g. for quicker response time to results data queries.

The raw test data and results data can be indexed by patient and by individual test as well as include patient specific information in an example embodiment excluding patient identifying information other than perhaps a patient unique identify number for purposes of separating the patient data from one patient from that of another patient. As described herein the test methods and the system server can be programmed to perform calculations on the raw test data acquired from a patient user interface via the testing application being implemented thereon.

Similarities between patients residing in a given cluster i.e. patients who share certain characteristics can be utilized to facilitate treatment and diagnosis of other patient s having similar conditions. For example a clinician may enter information e.g. patient information with respect to medication type and or dosage stimulation parameters e.g. of a DBS therapy symptoms conditions and or diagnoses via the management user interface which can be tagged or programmatically linked to the test data and results data of the patient such as to augment or provide metadata that can be further evaluated or considered to facilitate clustering of patients and understanding the respective conditions. In this way the test data for a more statistically significant population can be maintained for performing statistical analysis of test data which can be mined or otherwise evaluated statistically or otherwise e.g. via the researcher user interface to understand the correlations of symptoms and conditions. For example the system of the present invention may be queryable for test result data by symptom s and or diagnosis in response to which the system may return results data concerning those patients matching the symptom s and or diagnosis and or averages and or other aggregate data of the results data .

In an example embodiment the system and method of the present invention may provide for a clinician using the user device to input a proposed change e.g. with respect to medication type and or dosage and or stimulation parameters e.g. of a DBS therapy for a particular patient for whom patient information and test results have been obtained. In response to a query triggered via user selection of a command at the user device the system server may search the central data storage for patients associated with patient data and test data similar by a predetermined degree to those of the particular patient. The server may further search for those of the patients who have been subjected to a change similar to that proposed for the particular patient and for whom subsequent test results data have been obtained. The server may output for display at the user device an average of such subsequent test results thereby indicating to the clinician an expected change in the particular patient s condition with the proposed change measured in terms of expected change in test results.

Alternatively or additionally the system may output a medical condition category corresponding to the average of such subsequent test results. For example different intervals of test scores may be associated in memory with different categories of cognitive and or motor skills. The category under which the average of the subsequent test results falls may be output. Alternatively or additionally the expected direction of change to the medical condition classification may be output e.g. whether the cognitive and or motor skills are expected to improve or decline.

Thus the information obtained with respect to the test outcome shown in may include the coordinates of each of the targets as well as the coordinates or position of the cursor or other pointing element during the test as the cursor or other pointing element moves between the respective targets and forms a corresponding line or path .

In a partially completed center out test is depicted showing one of the targets having a contrast color relative to the other targets thereby designating the intended target for connection between the center target and the contrast target . The center out test can be performed such that different ones of the outer targets are selected in a predictable or random order one or more times.

Also depicted in is a diagrammatic view of a line used in an analysis that can be performed to characterize a degree of error e.g. by calculating an average error a mean square error or a root mean square error for each of a plurality of respective lines interconnecting sequential targets in the GUI . For example referring to targets 2 and 3 this can be performed for example by comparing the relative positions of points along an ideal straight line connected between targets 2 and 3 relative to a line segment drawn by patient e.g. responsive to user controlled movement with a pointing device between the same respective targets. For instance the same number of equally spaced sample points can be populated along the length of each line segment and and a corresponding means square error can be computed for differences between the sets of sample points. For example the error values recorded for the sample points can be squared then summed together and then divided by the number of sample point pairs to provide the mean square error of the patient s line relative to the ideal line segment . Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate various types of estimators that can be utilized to compute a measure of how close the user s line is to the fitted ideal straight line between targets such as including the sample mean sample variance analysis of variance root mean square error standard deviation as well as linear regression techniques.

For example the resulting mean square error can further be utilized to compute a root means square error by taking the square root of the mean square error for each of the line segments between targets. The root means square error thus can provide essentially an average measure of distance of the user s data points on the line from corresponding points on the ideal line .

The trail making test Part B implemented by GUI may be used to assess both motor and cognitive information concurrently. For instance the instructions e.g. via the instruction GUI of specify that a user patient is to alternate between consecutive sequential letters and numbers by connecting respective targets with straight lines similar to what is shown in up to letter E beginning with the lowest number to the lowest letter to the second lowest number to the second highest letter etc. Thus shows an example outcome of a test in which a user has used a cursor having a position that can be tracked via the corresponding API. The system is configured to dynamically render a graphical depiction of a line onto the display GUI in response to movements of the cursor for example via a corresponding pointing element such as a mouse stylus or touch screen. Information associated with the position and times associated with the positions representing times for each of the movements can be recorded for subsequent analysis and evaluation as described herein.

By way of example the plot depicts X position versus Y position thereby showing the graphical object as a pair of interconnected line segments in a relative coordinate system based upon user input with a corresponding pointing device representing the path the user took between the targets of the seven s test. A representative plot shows the X data of plot plotted as a function of time and plot shows the Y data of plot plotted as a function of time.

A plot depicts the velocity information corresponding to the changes in the X Y positions plotted in plot over the time period in which the changes occurred i.e. during the test. Plot depicts velocity in the X direction with respect to time such as by taking the change between plotted positional points in plot over the plotted time in which such change occurred. Similarly plot depicts velocity of the Y direction with respect to Time such as by taking the change between plotted positional points in plot over the plotted time in which such change occurred.

Similarly depicts a plot of velocity as a function of time cm sec that can be obtained from data acquired from a trail making test Part A implemented according to an aspect of the invention. An enlarged view of a portion of the waveform formed by the plot is depicted in at .

Referring again to another set of plots and depict the acceleration for each of the respective curves. For instance the plot displays a plot of acceleration versus time such as by taking the change in velocity values of plot over the corresponding time period in which such change occurred. The plot corresponds to the acceleration in the X direction versus time such as by taking the change in velocity values of plot over the corresponding time period in which such change occurred. Similarly the plot displays a plot of acceleration in the Y direction versus time such as by taking the change in velocity values of plot over the corresponding time period in which such change occurred.

The separate data concerning the movement in the X and Y directions respectively e.g. one or more of plots and may be used for example to characterize skill with respect to different directions.

As noted above the index calculator may calculate a score characterizing a test taker s performance on one or more administered tests. In an example embodiment of the present invention the analysis engine may compare an overall curve shape of one or more of the types of graphs shown in e.g. which plot velocity and or acceleration to stored graph shapes. For example the shape of a plotted velocity or acceleration may be compared to a stored smooth bell shaped curve which may be considered to represent ideal motion by a healthy person when raking a test. The analysis engine may score the graphs of the test taker s motion such that the closer the shapes of the graphs to the stored graph shapes the higher the score. Similarly the analysis engine may determine the extent with respect to number and or degree to which the graph s include spikes where such spikes may be used as indications of low quality movement including significant and or many corrective and or tremor like motions.

The graph shape score s may be used for example by the index calculator to calculate the index which may be stored and output for example via the management user interface . It is noted that the index may be based on a number of factors. In an example embodiment different factors e.g. including the graph shape score may be multiplied by respective weighting values for example depending on ranked significance with respect to the overall index.

By way of further example is a reproduction of the GUI shown in in which selected portions of position and kinematic data have been identified by circles corresponding to relevant data that can be utilized by the cognitive calculator for computing dwell time. For example dwell time can correspond to an amount of time that a cursor or other user controlled graphical interface element resides within a bounded region such as a defined border of a target. Such bounded regions can be identified in the testing data according to position data e.g. X and Y coordinates for each of the targets populating a test GUI. The identified regions for which dwell time is calculated can be identified by identifying the X and Y positions corresponding to each time during which no change occurs in the X and Y position or a period in which there is no velocity e.g. from plot .

In an example embodiment of the present invention the system and method may be used to administer and obtain data for certain tests used to measure only motor function e.g. related to finger tapping or tapping between two points. In an example embodiment of the present invention the system and method may be used to administer and obtain data for certain tests used to measure only cognitive function e.g. the Mini Mental State Exam or Raven s Progressive Matrices tests.

For instance these protocols can be implemented and corresponding sets of test data evaluated to ascertain the effects on various conditions such as whether a DBS is on during the test or off as well as whether a patient is on their medication at a prescribed dose or not and the effect of such a condition on the performance of a test. Those skilled in the art will understand various other protocols and combinations of protocols that can be utilized for specifying patient control parameters associated with a given set of tests.

In view of the foregoing it will be appreciated that systems and methods have been described that can be implemented to provide a battery of cognitive and motor tests to remotely assess neurological disorders such as neurocognitive and neuromotor disorders such as for example PD Alzheimer s disease multiple sclerosis dementia amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS . Parkinsonian syndrome trauma induced brain injury stroke and multiple systems atrophy MSA . The systems and methods enable the testing to be performed remotely by a patient user and the collection of data in a central data repository such as to provide access to such information by a clinician and to facilitate further research.

In view of the foregoing structural and functional description those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the invention may be embodied as a method data processing system or computer program product. Accordingly these portions of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware such as shown and described with respect to the computer system of . Furthermore portions of the invention may be a computer program product including a hardware computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices hard disks optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices.

Certain embodiments of the invention have been described herein with reference to block illustrations of methods systems and computer program products. It will be that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer executable instructions. These computer executable instructions may be provided to one or more processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus or a combination of devices and circuits to produce a machine such that the instructions when executed by the processor implement the functions specified in the block or blocks.

These computer executable instructions may also be stored in computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

In this regard illustrates one example of a computer system of the type that can be utilized to implement one or more embodiments or the systems and methods described herein for testing and analyzing motor and cognitive function of a patient. The computer system can be implemented on one or more general purpose networked computer systems embedded computer systems routers switches server devices client devices various intermediate devices nodes and or stand alone computer systems. Additionally the computer system or portions thereof can be implemented on various mobile or portable clients such as for example a laptop or notebook computer a personal digital assistant PDA and the like.

The system may include a computer which may function for example as any of the user devices and and or the server . The computer may include a system bus may include any of several types of bus structures including for example a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of conventional bus architectures such as peripheral component interconnect PCI video electronics standards association VESA Microchannel industry standard architecture ISA and extended industry standard architecture EISA to name a few. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up may be stored in ROM .

The computer also may include for example a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive e.g. a floppy drive e.g. to read from or write to a removable disk and an optical disk drive e.g. a CD ROM drive e.g. for reading from or writing to a CD ROM disk or other optical media. The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical disk drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions etc. for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a CD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the present invention.

A number of program modules may be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or inure application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system in the computer could be any suitable operating system or combinations of operating systems. The application programs other program modules and program data can cooperate to provide motor and cognitive testing on a patient computer device such as shown and described above. Additionally application programs other program modules and program data can be used for computation of an indication of motor cognitive or a combination of motor and cognitive functions of a patient based on the testing data such as shown and described above.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through one or more user input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone a joystick a game pad a scanner touch screen or the like. The mouse or other pointing device can be utilized to perform a point and click action which includes the action of a computer user moving a cursor to a certain location on a screen point and then pressing a mouse button usually the left button click or other pointing device. Such point and click can be used with any number of input devices varying from mice touch pads keyboards joysticks scroll buttons and roller balls. The information associated with such point and click operations can be provided e.g. to a central server as part of the test data for each of the respective tests such as described herein.

These and other input devices are often connected to a processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A display device such as a monitor is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . Other display devices such as speakers printers etc. may be provided instead of or in addition to the monitor. Thus the output representation for a virtual electrode is not limited to a graphical representation on a display.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The remote computer may be a workstation a server computer a router a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in may include a LAN and or a WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or is connected to a communications server on an associated LAN or leas another circuitry arrangement for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device and or locally . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other arrangements for establishing a communications link between the computers and may be used.

In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming the present invention has been described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by a computer such as the computer or remote computer unless otherwise indicated. Such acts and operations are sometimes referred to as being computer executed. It will be appreciated that the acts and symbolically represented operations include the manipulation by the processing unit of electrical signals representing data bits which causes a resulting transformation or reduction of the electrical signal representation and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations in the memory system including the system memory hard drive floppy disks CD ROM and remote memory storage to thereby reconfigure or otherwise alter the computer system s operation as well as other processing of signals and or store data obtained as results of such processing. The memory locations where such data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic or optical properties corresponding to the data bits.

What have been described above are examples and embodiments of the invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the invention but one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present invention are possible. For example the dimensions and configurations of the targets and the types of user controlled movement task each patient is instructed to perform can vary from the particular examples shown and described herein. Accordingly the invention is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims. In the claims unless otherwise indicated the article a is to refer to one or more than one. 

