---

title: Networked barcode verification system
abstract: Systems and methods are described for barcode verification. Optionally, a barcode scanner/imager is coupled to a verification system over a network. The verification system receives over the network barcode data associated with an item, such as a ticket, and associated information. The verification system uses the barcode data and associated information to determine if the barcode is valid and corresponds to an identified event. The verification system transmits a verification result.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510138&OS=08510138&RS=08510138
owner: Ticketmaster LLC
number: 08510138
owner_city: West Hollywood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100303
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 158 237 filed Mar. 6 2009 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

With the advent of the Internet transactions are often performed over computer networks between two entities that have not conducted previous transactions with each other. Further the location and even the identity of one entity may be unknown to the other entity. Thus transactions often carry significant uncertainty and risk. Many conventional transfer systems fail to provide adequate security and authenticity verification for such online transactions.

Certain example embodiments utilize codes such as barcodes and related information to verify the authenticity of a document such as a ticket. For example optionally the barcode data associated with a ticket may be optically scanned using an imaging device e.g. a barcode scanner a camera etc. and the digital image of the barcode data is then transmitted to a verification system. The imaging device may be included in a kiosk turnstile handheld device wireless phone or may be a camera connected to a user computer. The verification system then analyzes the digital image to extract and decode the encoded data. Optionally instead or in addition a user manually types in a code corresponding to the barcode. Optionally instead the code is an identification code that is not associated with a barcode.

In addition the verification system receives other data related to the document. For example with respect to a ticket corresponding event identification may be received. Optionally seat location information e.g. section row and or seat number is also received. The verification system uses to the code and some or all of the additional information to determine whether the document is valid. The verification system can then provide a verification indication to a user and or a third party system e.g. associated with a ticket resale service .

An example embodiment comprises a barcode verification system comprising a barcode interface configured to receive barcode data associated with a ticket barcode associated with a ticketed event wherein the barcode data was obtained via a barcode imaging device at a first location or was manually entered an interface configured to receive seating and event data manually provided by a first user offering the ticket and or by a second user seeking to acquire the ticket a data store stored that stores barcode data for issued tickets associated for the ticketed event event data associated with the issued tickets seating data associated with the issued tickets transfer permission data associated with the issued tickets code stored in memory that when executed by a computing device is configured to perform verification operations comprising determine if the received barcode data is in accordance with a first specified format determine if the received barcode data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store when the received barcode data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store determine if the received event data corresponds to the event data associated with the issued tickets for the event determine if the received seating data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store determine if the received barcode data is associated with a ticket that is not to be transferred via at least a first transaction type transmit a positive verification and transfer right indication based at least in part on the determination that the received barcode data is in accordance with a first specified format the received barcode data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store the received event data corresponds to the event data associated with the issued tickets for the event and the received seating data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store.

An example embodiment comprises a method of verifying a barcode comprising receiving at a ticket posting system the ticket posting system including at least one computing device a ticket posting request by a first user the ticket posting request including barcode data event data and seating data associated with a ticket offer transmitting a verification request over a network to a verification system the verification request including the barcode data and the seat data receiving at the ticket posting system an indication as to whether the barcode data corresponds to a valid ticket for an event corresponding to the event data the ticket is associated with a seat corresponding to the seat data and is transferable by the first user if the verification indicates that the barcode data does not correspond to a valid ticket or if the verification indicates that that the barcode data corresponds to a ticket for an event different than that corresponding to the event data is associated with a seat that does not correspond to the seat data and or is not transferable by the first user inhibiting the posting of the ticket if the verification indicates that the barcode data does correspond to a valid ticket for an event corresponding to the event data that the ticket is associated with a seat corresponding to the seat data and is transferable by the first user enabling the first user to post the ticket for transfer if after the ticket is posted for transfer a successful transfer operation is performed with respect to a second user transmitting a request for a new barcode over the network to a barcode issuing system the barcode request including an indication that the ticket is being transferred receiving over the network a new barcode associated by the barcode issuing system with the ticket enabling the ticket to be provided to the second user with the new barcode.

An example embodiment comprises program code stored in non transitory tangible computer readable memory that when executed by a computing device is configured to receive barcode data associated with a ticket barcode associated with a ticketed event receive seating and event data manually provided by a first user offering the ticket and or by a second user seeking to acquire the ticket store in a data store barcode data for issued tickets associated for the ticketed event event data associated with the issued tickets seating data associated with the issued tickets transfer permission data associated with the issued tickets determine if the received barcode data is in accordance with a first specified format determine if the received barcode data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store when the received barcode data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store determine if the received event data corresponds to the event data associated with the issued tickets for the event determine if the received seating data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store determine if the received barcode data is associated with a ticket that is not to be transferred via at least a first transaction type transmit a positive verification and transfer right indication based at least in part on the determination that the received barcode data is in accordance with a first specified format the received barcode data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store the received event data corresponds to the event data associated with the issued tickets for the event and the received seating data corresponds to barcode data stored in the data store.

An example embodiment provides a verification system comprising an interface configured to receive coded data associated with a ticket for a ticketed event a data store stored that stores coded data for issued tickets associated for the ticketed event event data associated with the issued tickets seating data associated with the issued tickets code stored in non transitory memory that when executed by a computing device is configured to determine if the received coded data is in accordance with a first specified format determine if the received coded data corresponds to coded data stored in the data store determine if event data received in association with the coded data corresponds to the event data associated with the issued tickets for the event transmit a positive verification based at least in part on the determination that the received coded data is in accordance with a first specified format the received coded data corresponds to coded data stored in the data store and the received event data corresponds to the event data associated with the issued tickets for the event.

An example embodiment provides a method of verifying a ticket comprising receiving coded data associated with a ticket for a ticketed event determining using a computing device if the received coded data is in accordance with a first specified format determining via the computing device if the received coded data corresponds to coded data stored in a data store determining via the computing device if event data received in association with the coded data corresponds to event data associated with an issued ticket for the event and transmitting via the computing device a positive verification based at least in part on the determination that the received coded data is in accordance with a first specified format the received coded data corresponds to coded data stored in the data store and the received event data corresponds to the event data associated with the issued ticket for the event.

An example embodiment provides a method of verifying a ticket comprising receiving coded data associated with a ticket for a ticketed event optionally determining using a computing device if the received coded data is in accordance with a first specified format optionally determining via the computing device if the received coded data corresponds to coded data stored in a data store optionally determining via the computing device if event data received in association with the coded data corresponds to event data associated with an issued ticket for the event optionally determining via the computing device if the received coded data is associated with a ticket that is not to be transferred via at least a first transaction type and transmitting via the computing device a positive verification based at least in part on the determination that the received coded data is in accordance with a first specified format the received coded data corresponds to coded data stored in the data store and or the received event data corresponds to the event data associated with the issued ticket for the event.

Described herein are systems and methods for performing authentication of documents or instruments. For example certain embodiments may be utilized to verify that a ticket e.g. a voucher to indicate that one has paid for or is entitled to admission to a theatre sporting event concert lecture amusement park zoo aquarium museum or other attraction event or entitled to travel on an airplane public transit train or other mode of transportation and may indicate that the holder is entitled to use a specific seat is authentic. Certain embodiments provide barcode verification for tickets being transferred even when the tickets are being transferred e.g. as part of a resale process by a system other than the original ticket issuer system.

Transactions involving tickets and in particular event tickets have greatly increased with the advent of online ticket transactions. This increase has been particularly notable with respect to resale transactions. For example many season ticket holders for sporting events are often unable to attend one or more games during the corresponding season. Thus rather than simply allow their seats to remain empty a season ticket holder may seek to transfer e.g. via a resale one or more game tickets to another party. The resale may be conducted via a service offered by the original ticket issuer or via the performer or promoter. By way of further example the resale may be provided via a third party service such as an auction site a ticket broker that resells tickets on behalf of itself and or other parties or an online classified advertisement site.

Because many of these transactions involve buyers and sellers that do not know one another and where the buyer may be unaware of the seller s name address or other important information a great deal of risk is present in many such transactions. All too often buyers learn to their dismay that the ticket they purchased in what was purported to be a resale turns out to be a counterfeit. In certain instances such as when the ticket is purchased through certain brokers the broker may refund the purchaser money. In other instances no refund may be forthcoming. However even in instance where the purchaser obtains a refund after being denied entry at the ticketed event the purchaser still misses the event and already went to the trouble and expense of driving to the event paying for parking babysitters and or other generally non reimbursed expense. Thus such refunds are generally unsatisfactory.

Further many ticket resale services are limited in how they can deliver tickets. For example most conventional resale services simply provide for the mailing or hand delivery of the original tickets to the new buyer which is time consuming and relatively expensive. Thus for example most ticket resale services do not provide for pickup of a ticket via a will call ticket office or via download from a website.

In addition conventionally because disparate databases of different systems such as that of an initial ticket seller system and that of a reseller ticket system controlled by different entities may include different portions of the sale history of a ticket the various systems lack a mechanism to verify that a given ticket being resold is authentic.

In order to overcome some or all of the foregoing deficiencies and technical challenges an example embodiment enables a purchaser to receive verification that a ticket is indeed genuine even when the ticket is being purchased as a resold ticket. By way of example when a purchaser has initiated a transaction with the seller e.g. a user that had previously purchased a ticket a single ticket or a season ticket the seller may automatically or in response to a seller and or buyer action be asked to provide ticket identification information to a trusted verification system. Optionally the verification system may be included in a ticket system that originally issued tickets being resold.

Optionally the seller may be requested by a posting system to provide such ticket identification information for analysis by a trusted verification system even before the seller s tickets are accepted for posting.

The term ticket as used herein can encompass electronic tickets or physical tickets. Further the tickets can be delivered electronically or physically. For example a ticket can be in the form of a printed ticket a code an electronic token an association with an existing identifier a membership card or otherwise. A ticket can be delivered wirelessly downloaded to a computer terminal for printing by the recipient emailed to a recipient or otherwise delivered.

One or more of the systems described herein is configured to receive and or process identification authentication information received from an identification authentication input device such as input device e.g. a barcode scanner a character reader a smart card reader an RFID reader a biometric reader e.g. a fingerprint palm print iris scanner etc. a keypad e.g. a physical or touch ASCII or sub ASCII keyboard for receiving a ticket identifier user identifier ticket holder identifier etc. etc . The received data may then be authenticated as described herein.

For example optionally the user keys in a code corresponding to a ticket barcode e.g. printed adjacent to the barcode and corresponding to data encoded in the barcode via a keyboard e.g. a user terminal keyboard . Optionally in addition or instead an input device e.g. a barcode reader camera etc. optionally scans tickets which can be a physical ticket or an electronic ticket such as one stored in a mobile phone and displayed by a mobile phone display or a smart card bearing a ticket token or otherwise receives ticket information ticket codes ticket holder codes and or ticket purchaser codes from a user or a ticket bearing device. The term scan as used herein is intended to encompass photographs.

By way of example ticket information is provided via a barcode that optionally includes start and stop markers a checksum and or quiet zones in addition to the encoded message. Optionally one or more of the following barcode formats may be used Code 39 Extended Code 39 Code 128 UCC EAN 128 Industrial 2 of 5 Planet Interleaved 2 of 5 Codabar UPC A UPC E EAN 13 EAN 8 BOOKLAND MSI Code 11 Code 93 PDF417 POSTNET PLANET. Other formats including proprietary formats may be used as well.

The input device optionally is also configured to read one or more types of identification devices e.g. by optically magnetically electronically and or wirelessly reading data embodiment on a credit card student ID membership card driver license magnetic stripe smart card passport tags etc. . For example the input device optionally reads magnetic stripes machine readable characters RFID tags data stored in computer readable memory etc. The input device optionally includes a biometric scanner configured to read one or more physical attributes of a ticket holder e.g. fingerprint palm veins retina iris voice face body etc. .

For example the seller may be asked to take a picture or scan of a barcode e.g. a one dimensional or two dimension barcode on the ticket being sold e.g. via a web camera connected to a user terminal associated with the seller via a picture taken with a standalone camera or cell phone camera via an LED based barcode scanner or otherwise and upload the barcode image or scan to the verification system or to the system via which the ticket is to be posted for resell e.g. an auction system a fixed price system or a system that supports both auction and fixed price sales . Optionally the seller and or the buyer may be asked to provide a locator e.g. a URL Uniform Resource Locator path name etc. corresponding to the seller posting. Optionally instead or in addition the system hosting the seller posting may automatically or in response to a seller and or buyer action pass the URL and or other posting information to the verification system. For example some or all of the following information may be passed to the verification system name of the event date of the event time of the event city town county state of the event event venue etc.

The verification system optionally uses the posting locator to access information regarding tags field names used by the system hosting the posting. For example the verification system can use the locator address to access from a verification database the data associated with tags field names used by the posting service associated with the posting locator address. By way of illustration an example posting service may have the following fields tags although fewer additional or different fields tags may be used and or different field tag names may be used 

By way of further example another posting service hosted by a posting system may include the following fields tags 

The verification system can use the tag field information to identify corresponding information in the seller posting e.g. some or all of the following name of the event date of the event time of the event city town county state of the event event venue etc. . This information can then be used in the verification process as discussed in greater detail herein.

Optionally the posting information may also or instead be provided by the seller and or buyer or pushed to the verification system by the posting system. Optionally the asking ticket price is not transferred e.g. inhibited from being transferred from the posting system to the verification system. Optionally a final sales price is transferred from the posting system to the verification system e.g. once the sale is complete .

Optionally the verification system analyzes the barcode data to determine if it corresponds to a valid barcode. The barcode may correspond to a unique ticket code assigned by the original ticket issuer and stored in a ticket database for later reference. For example a valid barcode may need to comply with a certain format. The verification can examine the barcode data to determine whether it complies with a specified format.

If verification system determines the barcode format of the ticket offered for sale is not valid optionally the seller is offered another opportunity to upload the barcode e.g. in case the seller inadvertently uploaded the barcode for a ticket different than the one that is the subject of the purchase transaction or in case the upload image is of poor quality and or otherwise provide the ticket barcode e.g. by manually entering corresponding barcode data printed on the ticket using a keyboard . Optionally instead after the seller has failed to provide a properly formatted barcode after a certain number of attempts e.g. a maximum threshold number of attempts specified by an operator and stored in the verification systems memory a notification is sent to the purchaser and optionally the seller indicating that the verification process has failed. At this point the purchaser and optionally the seller is provided the option to terminate the sale process or the sale process may be automatically terminated by the verification system and or by the posting system.

If the verification system determines that the barcode format is a valid format assuming the optional format check is performed the verification system then accesses a ticket database that stores barcode data corresponding to barcodes on issued valid tickets. The database may optionally be associated with the original ticket issuer e.g. a ticket system of which the verification system is a part or may associated with another entity that stores information on valid ticket barcodes. The seller provided barcode data may be compared against barcode data for valid tickets accessed from the database. If the seller provided barcode data matches that of a valid barcode in the database then related ticket information is accessed from the ticket database or other source. By way of illustration the related ticket information may include seating and or event information.

For example the ticket information may include some or all of the following data and or other data event identifier code event ID name of the event date of the event time of the event city town county state of the event event venue seat identifier e.g. seating section seating row seat number letter or if general admission a general admission designation optionally including a general admission section area such as floor or balcony identification of the current registered ticket holder etc. The verification system then compares some or all of the ticket information with the posting information and if there is a match the buyer and or seller are optionally provided with an indication that the verification process has determined that the ticket is authenticate.

In order for there to be a match different thresholds may optionally be set e.g. by an operator in the verification system memory. For example all information may be required to match a subset of information may be required to match or a certain percentage or minimum amount of information may be required to match. By way of example and not limitation the matching threshold may be set to 3 out of 5 types of information must match. By way of further example and not limitation the matching criteria may specify that certain information is required to match such as the seat identifier event name date and city and 2 out of 3 pieces of other information must match such as by way of example 2 out of 3 of the following registered ticket holder name venue name time of the event.

If the verification process fails e.g. because the posting information does not match the ticket information the purchaser and optionally the seller is so informed. At this point the purchaser and optionally the seller is provided the option to terminate the sale process or the sale process may be automatically terminated by the verification system and or by the posting system.

Optionally rather than or in addition to comparing information from the ticket database with the seller posting information the verification system accesses the ticket information from the ticket database and transmits it for display to the buyer and optionally the seller . The buyer can then verify that the ticket information corresponds to the ticket that the buyer wants to purchase.

Status changes related to a ticket can be stored in databases associated with one or more systems e.g. the ticket system the posting system and or the verification system . For example when a ticket is offered for resale a corresponding status notation is stored. If a potential buyer has initiated a purchase of the ticket a reserved status notation is stored. Similarly when a ticket resale has been performed a corresponding status notation is stored optionally in association with the sales price. Optionally an indication is stored when the ticket is resold by someone who does not have an account with one or more specified systems e.g. the ticket system the posting system and or the verification system .

If an event is cancelled in an example embodiment the transaction record of the resale of the ticket to the buyer is used to determine who is to receive the refund if any . For example when an event cancellation notification is received at the appropriate system e.g. the posting system and or the verification system the system accesses the ticketing database to determine who is currently recorded as owning tickets for the event. For example if a resale has occurred as described above the system will have a record of the new purchaser as owning the corresponding ticket. Therefore the system will process a refund to the new purchaser. Optionally the purchaser of the ticket receives a cancellation refund from the third party from which the purchaser purchased the ticket. Optionally the seller who first purchased the ticket via the ticketing system would be provided a refund via the ticketing system operator that made the first sale of the ticket.

The ticket system optionally includes a database that stores rules indicating which ticket may be posted for resale barcode data for event tickets the status of tickets such as described below event data e.g. event identifier performer sports team name event venue event date event time whether the event has been cancelled whether the event has been rescheduled etc. venue data e.g. seating charts and information such as section row seat number data and so on.

By way of example a ticket status indicator may optionally indicate whether the ticket is locked unlocked transferred posted resold reserved complementary not permitted to be resold etc.

The rules may optionally indicate whether some or all of the following statuses should prevent inhibit a ticket from being resold e.g. in response to ticket posting request optionally including barcode data associated with a ticket posting request barcode will not decode event id mismatch event expired event is inaccessible wrong barcode mode series seat seat type mismatch reissued ticket tickets are for non adjacent seats account not balanced lock failed tickets are already locked tickets are reserved indicating that another user is already in the purchase process for the tickets event cancelled tickets already posted event date has past or insufficient time before event to process ticket transfer resale event is not bar coded barcode is invalid tickets are not fully paid for tickets are complimentary tickets that may not be resold ticket holder is restricted from reselling tickets tickets have already been transferred tickets have already been resold tickets have added credit assigned tickets have been transferred to a card barcode does not belong to the event provided in the request barcode is invalid no longer active as a result of a resale process or other process.

An API application programming interface may be associated with the ticket system via which third party systems such as a third party ticket resale system may communicate with the ticket system. For example the API may define routines data structures object classes and or protocols to be used in communicating with the ticket system and the associated verification system .

The ticket resale system likewise includes one or more servers . The servers may be separate computers or may be operating concurrently on the same computer. The resale system can include account manager servers a credit card authorization system an internal network request routers data and status queues and an interface to one or more networks optionally including the Internet. The resale system can host a Web site accessible by users for searching for purchasing transferring and selling tickets. The resale system can include one or more databases whose data can be accessed as needed. For example the databases can include a user account database which stores user contact information billing information preferences account status ticket inventory currently held and historically held by the user and the associated ticket statuses settlement information and or other information.

Buyers and sellers may access the ticket system and or the resale system via corresponding user terminals .

As will now be described with reference to the figures in an example process a seller e.g. of a holder of a single event ticket or a season ticket holder posts a ticket for sale on a posting site e.g. associated with the original ticket issuer performer promoter a third party auction and or fixed price hosting site . Optionally the seller can edit the posting e.g. change the item description price or other information and or cancel the posting via the posting site or other interface.

Referring now to at state A the ticket holder user logs onto the ticket system and accesses the ticket holder s ticketing account e.g. hosted by a ticket system or by a system that has access to the ticket holder s account . The account may store a record of tickets owned by the ticket holder. At state A the system uses the ticket holder identification information e.g. login information to access from the ticket system ticketing database information regarding the tickets currently owned controlled by the ticket holder.

The accessed information is provided to a terminal for display to the ticket holder including a listing of some or all of the tickets owned controlled by the ticket holder. The ticket holder selects one or more tickets that the ticket holder wants to sell e.g. by clicking on a sell control field displayed alongside a given ticket listing . Optionally the listing includes an indication e.g. via text or the absence of an associated sell control as to whether there is a prohibition or restriction on the ticket holder reselling a given listed ticket. Optionally the ticket holder is prevented from selecting such a ticket for resale. For example the ticket system database may indicate that certain event tickets may not be resold because of the ticket type e.g. the tickets were provided as complimentary tickets by the performer or as part of a event promotion or the ticket holder status e.g. the ticket holder has a past due account balance or has resold more than a threshold number of tickets in a specified period of time .

Optionally in addition to the event tickets information regarding related items events is also displayed via the ticket holder terminal. For example prepaid free parking and or prepaid free concessions may be listed. Optionally the ticket holder may only be allowed to resell a related item event if the primary admission ticket for the event is being sold with the related event item. The ticket system will thus inhibit the resale of a related item separate from the associated event ticket.

At state A the ticket system receives a ticket holder selection of a sell option e.g. provide by the ticket holder by activation of a sell control .

At state A the ticket system optionally directs the ticket holder browser to a transition user interface informing the ticket holder that a transition to another operator s website is taking place.

At state A the ticket system transmits a payload ID e.g. over a network directly or indirectly to the ticket posting site e.g. that of the ticket issuer performer a third party etc. . The payload ID can be used to identify the session and ticket information used during the posting request. At state A the posting site uses the payload ID to make a request over the network to the ticket system for seller information and or ticket inventory information. The payload ID is optionally used as a token to authenticate the request and to lookup customer account information that of the ticket holder in this example including customer ticket inventory information.

At state A the seller information and ticket inventory information are returned by the ticket system to the posting system. For example some or all of the following information is provided an event code e.g. an event ID identifying the event event information e.g. event name event time event city state venue name ticket seating information e.g. section row seat a ticket identifier e.g. encrypted barcode information for subsequent requests and seller account information which can be mapped to the posting system ticket holder s account. The seller account information advantageously enables future redirects to be performed in a streamlined manner for the customer. The seller account information can include some or all of the following and or other data 

Account ID identifier associated with the ticket holder s posting system account Account ID identifier associated with the ticket holder s ticket system account

At state A the ticket holder is redirected from the ticket system to a log in user interface e.g. provided via a Webpage associated with the posting system. If the ticket holder has an account with the posting system then optionally the ticket holder is automatically logged in e.g. where the ticket holder browser has the login password and user ID and can populate the login field . Optionally the user is automatically logged in without presenting a log in user interface. Optionally the ticket holder manually logs in to the posting system via the log in user interface by entering a user identifier and or password. If the ticket holder does not have an account with the posting system optionally the posting systems asks the ticket holder to establish an account.

At state A the posting system provides a user interface for display to the ticket holder. By way of example and not limitation the seller may be asked to provide some or all of the following information and or other information 

At state A the posting system transmits a message to the ticket system indicating that the selected ticket is being or is about to be posted. The ticket system puts at least a temporary lock on the ticket to prevent or inhibit the ticket holder from transferring the ticket via the ticket system except as instructed permitted by the posting system. For example if the ticket holder has notified that posting system that the ticket holder s ticket is no longer to be offered via the posting system and the ticket has not yet been resold the posting system sends an unlock message to the ticket system so that the ticket holder can transfer or sell the ticket via another channel.

At state A the ticket system may perform a lock or unlock operation using the ticket ID and or the ticket barcode to access the corresponding ticket record. At state A the posting system transmits a confirmation status message to the ticket system and or other designated recipient. Optionally the message includes an indication as to whether the ticket holder is allowed to edit or cancel the posting.

In the foregoing example the ticket holder optionally does not need to post or enter the ticket barcode as the ticket system has records of what tickets are owned controlled by the ticket system and the ticket system has authenticated that the ticket holder is providing the posting instructions e.g. via the log in information .

Optionally rather than first accessing the ticket system website and then being redirected to the posting website the ticket holder may navigate directly to the posting website in order to resell a ticket. In this example the ticket holder provides the posting system with barcode data e.g. by entering text characters corresponding to the barcode and or an image of the barcode so as to verify that the ticket holder is the holder of the tickets being posted. With reference to at state B the ticket holder logs into the posting system website in order to post the holder s ticket s . At state B the posting system presents a form to the ticket holder as similarly discussed above. Optionally the system is configured to receive bulk uploads of barcodes which are then automatically validated and posted. This is particularly beneficial for entities such as ticket brokers that control large numbers of tickets.

The form may include some or all of the following fields first name last name address e mail address event code ticket seating information ticket identifier barcode data. Certain of the fields may be prepopulated from data previously provided by the ticket holder e.g. first name last name address e mail address event code event information ticket seating information ticket identifier . Other information such as asking price may be manually entered into the form. The ticket holder enters the barcode information associated with the ticket holder. For example the ticket holder can type in or otherwise enter the code corresponding to the ticket barcode e.g. which the ticket holder ticket has a code printed underneath the barcode .

In certain embodiments the form requests the ticket holder to provide a visual image of the barcode. By way of illustration the ticket holder can use a camera e.g. a stand alone camera a web cam a cell phone camera or other camera to take a picture of the barcode and then upload the barcode picture by using the form provided by the ticket posting system e.g. using a browse control that enables the ticket holder to browse the ticket holder s terminal or other system . The ticket holder may directly email the ticket to the posting system which can then extract or scan the ticket barcode or may electronically copy and paste the barcode e.g. where the ticket was emailed to the ticket holder or was downloaded from a website into a form e.g. provided by the ticket posting system . In some instances a ticket may be distributed with a scannable barcode in conjunction with an equivalent alphanumeric code. In such instances optionally the form provided to the ticket holder includes a field via which the user can enter the alphanumeric code instead of or in addition to an image of the ticket barcode.

Optionally the ticket holder enters the ticket price at this state. Optionally instead the ticket holder is inhibited from entering the ticket price until the barcode verification procedure is performed. At state B the posting system receives the data including the barcode data corresponding code and the data is stored in memory.

At state B the posting system transmits a verification request to the ticket system. The verification request includes bar code information and optionally some or all of the related information provided by the ticket holder. Optionally the verification request may also include some or all of the following an event identifier previously assigned via the ticket system a ticket identifier assigned by the posting system which optionally is the ticket barcode and a classification e.g. indicating with the ticket is a standard ticket or associated with event parking .

At state B the barcode is validated e.g. using techniques described herein by the ticket system in response to the posting system verification request. For example the barcode data provided by the ticket holder optionally has its format checked. If the format e.g. the number and type of characters is valid the barcode is compared to those in the ticket system database to determine if there is a match. If there is a match the event data provided by the ticket holder is compared with that associated with the matching barcode. If they correspond the system indicates the ticket has been successfully verified.

In addition optionally a determination is made e.g. by accessing the ticket system database as to whether the ticket is or is not eligible for resale. For example the original ticket issuer may have originally sold the ticket with a restriction preventing resale. By way of further example there may be governmental restrictions on a ticket resale. By checking on whether a resale is permitted or not the posting system can honor any such restrictions. Optionally the verification system will check if a single posting includes tickets for non adjacent seats and if so indicates in the response that the tickets for non adjacent need to be separately posted.

At state B a response to the verification request is transmitted from the ticket system to the posting system. The response may include some or all of the following data 

Optionally the ticket status can include a code and or human readable text indicating some or all of the following conditions when present 

Some or all of the foregoing statuses may indicate to the posting system that the tickets are not to be posted for resale.

At state B if the ticket barcode is validated and a determination is made that the ticket can be resold the ticket is posted for resale on the posting system website or a related site so that users can view the posting and decide whether to purchase the ticket. Optionally a confirmation is transmitted back to the ticket system optionally including a Ticket ID as a reference which will store an indication as to which tickets are posted for resale and via which posting system service. When the ticket holder next visits the ticket system website and accesses the ticket holder s ticket listing the ticket system will display an indication to the ticket holder which tickets have already been posted for resale and via which posting service system.

If the barcode was not validated by the ticket system and or a determination made that the ticket cannot be resold a notification is provided to the ticket holder reporting the foregoing.

Optionally at state B the ticket system and or the posting system transmits a posting confirmation message to the ticket holder e.g. via a Webpage email SMS message MMS message instant message or otherwise optionally using an address provided by the ticket holder in the ticket holder s account setup or when the ticket holder purchased the ticket . For example the ticket system can transmit the confirmation message to the email address registered with the ticket system at the time of the original ticket purchase or earlier. Then if the real ticket holder did not post the ticket for resale e.g. where a user is attempting to fraudulently sell a ticket the user does not own the ticket holder can activate a link included in the email or otherwise contact the ticket system and or posting system to cancel the improper posting. The ticket system will store the cancellation command and prevent a sale based on the improper posting.

At state B if a potential buyer begins a purchase process with respect to the posted ticket s e.g. places the ticket s in an online shopping cart the posting system optionally transmits a reservation notification to the ticket system identifying the tickets e.g. using the barcodes and or ticket IDs an event identifier e.g. previously assigned via the ticket system and a reservation time. The ticket system will then place a reservation lock on the corresponding tickets for the reservation time which optionally may be different than the requested reservation time pending the sale or abandonment of the purchase. The ticket system optionally transmits a reservation confirmation message to the posting system.

If the ticket is sold via the posting system the posting system optionally transmits a sold notification to the ticket system at state B. The sold notification can include a sold indication a corresponding Ticket ID and optionally the name identifier of the purchaser. The ticket system can store some or all of the notification information in the ticket system database. Thus the ticket system is aware that the original purchaser no longer owns the ticket and optionally is aware of the identity of the new owner who can then similarly resell the ticket.

Optionally still additional information can be transmitted from the posting system to the ticket system. For example the sold notification can include some or all of the following information 

At state B optionally the ticket system generates a new barcode to be used on the sold ticket where the buyer will be issued a ticket with the same seating rights as the original ticket but with a different barcode . If there are multiple tickets multiple new barcodes may be generated. In addition the ticket system optionally cancels the old barcodes and stores a corresponding cancellation status indication in association with the cancelled barcodes. This will prevent someone from attempting to sell tickets using the cancelled barcodes or from attempting to enter the event using the cancelled barcodes. The new barcodes are stored in the ticket system database as active ticket barcodes. Optionally instead the original barcode may be used.

At state B the one or more new barcodes are optionally transmitted to the posting system with printing instructions e.g. so that the posting system can provide tickets with the new barcodes to the buyer . For example a message including some or all of the following is optionally transmitted from the ticket system to the posting system 

Optionally at state B the posting system transmits settlement information to the ticket system which the ticket system receives optionally then stores in memory for future reference. For example the settlement information can include some or all of the following data 

Optionally in addition to or instead of transmitting the raw ticket data a ticket image file of the ticket s may be transmitted to the third party reseller ticket system for visual presentation to the buyer. By way of example and not limitation the image file may be in pdf tif png bmp or other format.

Optionally the ticket holder is charged a fee by the posting system the verification system and or the ticket system for the sale. The fee can be a fixed dollar value or a percentage of a sale price by way of example. The sales information can then be made available to the ticket holder optionally in substantially real time via ticket management user interfaces such as those discussed elsewhere herein.

As discussed above if a buyer navigates to the posting system website and places posted tickets in an online shopping cart the posting system transmits a notification to the ticket system identifying the tickets e.g. using the barcodes and or ticket IDs an event identifier e.g. previously assigned via the ticket system and a reservation time. The ticket system then will place a reservation lock on the corresponding tickets for a time period pending the sale or abandonment of the purchase. Optionally the posting system can later transmit a message to the ticket system asking for the reservation to be extended. However if the buyer fails to complete the purchase e.g. the buyer removes the tickets from the shopping cart has not completed the purchase within a specified period of time navigates away from a certain webpage or otherwise indicates that the buyer is no longer interested in purchasing the tickets the process proceeds to state B and an unreserved notification is transmitted by the posting system to the ticket system e.g. including an unreserved command the ticket system barcodes the event identifier . The ticket system optionally transmits an unreserved confirmation message to the posting system.

At state C the verification system inspects the barcode format and determines whether the barcode is using a valid ticket barcode format. For example the format may relate to the number of characters the placement of start and stop indicators the use of headers etc. In addition if a checksum is being used the barcode data is evaluated with respect to the checksum. If at state C a determination is made that a valid ticket barcode format is not being used and or if the checksum check fails the verification process returns a verification failure message which may be transmitted to the posting system at state C. The verification message may include a ticket status indicating that the barcode will not decode that the barcode is invalid or the wrong barcode mode is being used.

If the format and checksum are satisfactory the process proceeds to state C. At state C the barcode data is compared with that stored in a ticket database which stores ticket barcodes. Optionally the barcode data is only compared with barcodes for tickets for the event identified by the ticket holder.

Optionally instead the barcode data comparison is not limited to ticket barcodes for the identified event. If a corresponding matching barcode is found then the event information associated with the matching barcode is compared with the identified event to determine if they match.

At state C the verification system determines whether the barcode data corresponds to a ticket barcode for the corresponding event e.g. based on the barcode comparison and or event comparison . If the barcode data fails to correspond to a ticket barcode for the corresponding event the verification process returns a verification failure message which may be transmitted to the posting system at state C. For example the verification failure message may include a status code text indicating that the seating information failed to match that the event identifier failed to match etc.

If the barcode data corresponds to a ticket barcode for the corresponding event the verification process the process proceeds to state C and additional ticket status related issues are checked. For example the additional status issues may affect whether or not the ticket can be posted by the ticket holder for resale. For example the verification system may check for some or all of the following conditions and or other conditions whether the event is an expired event whether the event data is inaccessible whether the ticket is for a series seat whether the posting is for tickets for non adjacent seats whether the seats are already locked and or reserved whether the event has been cancelled whether the tickets are already posted whether the event date has past or whether there is insufficient time before event to process ticket transfer resale whether the tickets have not been fully paid for whether the tickets are complimentary tickets that may not be resold whether the ticket holder is restricted from reselling tickets whether the barcode is invalid no longer active as a result of a resale process or other process etc.

At state C the verification system transmits a response message to the posting system the message including the ticket status information that indicates whether the ticket s may be posted for resale. The posting system can then post or not post the tickets in accordance with the message s received from the ticket system.

Optionally additional data may be used to verify a ticket is authentic and that the user has the right to sell the ticket. For example the user may be asked by the resale system to provide the credit card number of the credit card used to originally purchase the ticket. The credit card number received via the user can then be transmitted to the ticket system. The ticket system can then verify whether that credit card number was used to originally purchase the ticket e.g. by comparing the seller provided credit card number with the credit card number stored in a database with an association to the ticket being sold . If the seller supplied credit card number fails to match that used to purchase the ticket then optionally the verification system so indicates via a message transmitted to the posting system.

At state D the verification system receives a verification request from the buyer and or seller. The verification request may be initiated via a verification request control on a user interface provided for display by the posting website or via a control optionally on the same user interface webpage as the ticket posting. Optionally instead the verification request may be submitted via a user interface provided for display by the verification system or other related system. Optionally the requester enters a notification address e.g. an email address an SMS address and instant messaging address to which the verification result is to be provided. The verification request is accompanied by a posting locator. For example the posting locator may be an address such as a URL associated with a webpage on which the tickets are posted for resale. The locator may have been manually entered by the buyer or seller e.g. by keying in or pasting in the locator address into a locator field on a form hosted by verification system or the locator may have been automatically provided by posting system in response to the activation of the verification control.

At state D the verification system accesses the location e.g. the webpage associated with the locator address and reads pulls some or all of the posting information. For example the verification system may access an image that includes the ticket barcode which may be an image of one entire side of the ticket or just of the barcode and or text corresponding to the barcode. In addition optionally event data and or seating data is accessed from the location. The verification system optionally uses a mapping of tag field names used by the posting system in deciding what data to access and or how the accessed data is to be used.

For example the verification system may access from its memory a previously stored mapping of tags fields for the specific website used to post the tickets where the mapping indicates what values are associated with the tags fields. By way of example the posting system may use the tag field name EventName to list the name of the ticketed event. Similarly the posting system may use the tag field name EventDate to list the date of the ticketed event. By way of further example the posting system may use the tag field names EventCity EventState EventVenue to respectively list the city state and venue is which the event is scheduled to take place. By way of still further example the posting system may use the tag field names TicketQuantity SeatIdentifier and AskingPrice to respectively list the quantity of tickets being posted the seat identifiers associated with a given ticket and the asking price. Of course other tags field names may be used.

At state D the verification system performs a verification process optionally using the process discussed above with respect to or optionally using other techniques described herein. For example the verification process can use data obtained from the posting webpage and data from a ticketing database such as that associated with the original ticket issuing system. At state D the verification system returns the results to the seller and or buyer. For example the results may be presented on a webpage served via the posting system or the verification system or transmitted to an address provided by the requester e.g. an email SMS instant messaging address or via an audible message to a phone . The results may include some or all of the following information and or other information 

At state the user entries selections are received by the ticket system which optionally stores the entries selections in memory. At state the ticket system optionally directs the user browser to a transition page where the user is informed that user is being transitioned to the third party site and or other information is provided to the user. If an error occurs during the transition redirection process e.g. because the third party posting system is not accessible the user is so informed via a user interface.

At state the user browser is redirected to the third party posting website wherein in a login user interface is presented to the user and the user logs in e.g. by providing a password user ID . Optionally the ticket holder is automatically logged in optionally without presenting a log in user interface.

At state a posting edit user interface hosted by the third party website is presented to the user. At state the user edits the posting e.g. the asking price a purchase deadline the minimum number of the posted tickets that must be purchased etc. . Once the user has completed the edits e.g. as indicated by the user activating a save changes control or the like the changes are saved to the third party website database and the changes are reflected in the posting viewable by potential purchasers.

At a later time at state the user optionally directly accesses and logs into the third party website without going through the ticket system website to make additional edits. The edits are then saved in memory.

At state a transition user interface is optionally provided for display informing the user that a transition to another operator s website is taking place. Optionally the ticket holder is automatically logged in to the user s account with the third party website e.g. where the ticket holder browser has the login password and user ID and can populate the login field . Optionally the user manually logs into the posting system.

At state the posting system serves a user interface e.g. via a webpage listing the selected tickets the user interface including a cancel control. At state the user activates the cancel control associated with the selected tickets. The cancel command is received and stored by the posting system. At state the posting system transmits a notification to the ticket system indicating that the posting for the selected tickets has been cancelled. For example the notification can include some or all of the following information 

At state the ticket system unlocks the selected ticketed e.g. by recording an unlocked available status flag in the ticket system database so that the user can transfer or repost the selected tickets for sale. The unlock operation may be performed using the ticket ID and or the ticket barcode to access the corresponding ticket record. Optionally rather than first accessing the ticket system website and then being redirected to the posting website the ticket holder may navigate directly to the posting website in order to cancel a ticket posting.

Optionally the ticket system transmits a confirmation to the posting system indicating that the cancellation has been noted and that the tickets have been unlocked. For example the confirmation may include some or all of the following 

The posting system and or the ticket system optionally transmits a cancellation confirmation to the user e.g. via an email SMS message instant message webpage etc. .

Transaction controls are provided. In this example a sell control a forward control and a transfer and print control are provided. Activation of a transaction control instructs the ticket system as to how the ticket is to be given offered to another e.g. via a sale through a third party service via a transfer gift to a designated recipient.

The example user interface illustrated in lists an event for which the user has tickets Horrible Hyenas . The example identifies the status of seat tickets that the user has previously purchased. In this example the user interface reports using information from the database that user tickets for seats 1 and 2 have been sold and that a ticket for seat 3 has been sold for 100. The user interface further reports that a ticket for seat 4 is currently posted for sale and that tickets for seats 5 and 6 are currently posted for sale. In this example update and cancel links controls are provided for the tickets currently posted for sale via which the user can edit the posting e.g. change the asking price or cancel a posting cancel the offer to sell the ticket .

Optionally less information and options are provided if the ticket is posted on a third party posting service. Thus for example if the ticket system determines via information or lack thereof in the ticket system database that a ticket is posted for sale on a third party service optionally the sale price is not reported for a sold ticket. Similarly if a ticket is posted for sale on a third party service optionally the user is not provided with the update or cancel controls e.g. the user is optionally required to perform any cancellation or update via the third party service .

Optionally in order to cancel a posting on a third party website the user needs to proceed to the third party website rather than cancel the posting via the ticket system as similarly described above.

Thus various example embodiments have been described for validating and verifying documents such as tickets.

Unless otherwise indicated the functions described herein may be performed by software e.g. including modules including executable code and instructions running on one or more systems including one or more computers such as barcode and or other authentication computer systems. The software may be stored in computer readable media e.g. some or all of the following optical media e.g. CD ROM DVD Blu ray etc. magnetic media e.g. fixed or removable magnetic media semiconductor memory e.g. RAM ROM Flash memory EPROM etc. and or other types of computer readable media.

The one or more computers can include one or more central processing units CPUs that execute program code and process data non transitory tangible memory including. for example one or more of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM for temporarily storing data and data structures during program execution non volatile memory such as a hard disc drive optical drive or FLASH drive for storing programs and data including databases which may be referred to as a system database a wired and or wireless network interface for accessing an intranet and or Internet and or other interfaces.

In addition the computers can include a display for displaying user interfaces data and the like and one or more user input devices such as a keyboard mouse pointing device microphone and or the like used to navigate provide commands enter information provide search queries and or the like. However the systems described herein can also be implemented using general purpose computers special purpose computers terminals state machines and or hardwired electronic circuits.

While various systems are described herein e.g. a posting system a verification system a ticket system etc. optionally some are or all of the various systems can be included a single system operated by a single operator.

While the foregoing examples include reference to barcodes other types of codes including other types of unique codes assigned to event tickets may be similarly verified and used to access data stored in memory such as in databases. For example other types of alphanumeric and or machine readable codes may be used.

The example processes described herein do not necessarily have to be performed in the described sequence and not all states have to be reached or performed.

Unless the context otherwise indicates the term field with respect to a user interface or form is intended to refer to a user entry mechanism via which the user can input data or commands such as a text field a menu via which the user can make a selection etc.

Throughout the description herein the term website is used to refer to a user accessible server site that implements basic and or other World Wide Web standards for the coding and transmission of documents such as hypertextual documents. These standards currently include HTML the Hypertext Markup Language which can be used to generate Webpages and HTTP the Hypertext Transfer Protocol . It should be understood that the term site or computer system are not intended to imply a single geographic location as a Web or other network site can for example include multiple geographically distributed computer systems that are appropriately linked together. Furthermore while the following description relates to an embodiment utilizing the Internet and related protocols other networks such as a network of interactive televisions wireless phones and other protocols may be used as well.

Various embodiments provide for communications between one or more systems e.g. a verification system a posting system etc. and one or more users e.g. a purchaser and or seller . These user communications may be provided to a user terminal e.g. an Interactive television a phone a video game system a laptop desktop computer a device providing Internet access or other networked device . For example communications may be provided via Webpages downloaded documents email SMS short messaging service message MMS multimedia messaging service message other forms of electronic communication text to speech message otherwise. Commands and data received by the verification system and the posting system from a user are stored in memory and processed and transformed as discussed herein.

Although this invention has been disclosed in the context of certain embodiments and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses of the invention and obvious modifications and equivalents thereof. In addition while a number of variations of the invention have been shown and described in detail other modifications which are within the scope of this invention will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art based upon this disclosure. It is also contemplated that various combinations or subcombinations of the specific features and aspects of the embodiments may be made and still fall within the scope of the invention. Accordingly it should be understood that various features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments can be combined with or substituted for one another in order to form varying modes of the disclosed invention. Thus it is intended that the scope of the present invention herein disclosed should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described above.

