---

title: Techniques for determining physical properties of underground structures using lightning
abstract: A method and apparatus includes detecting lightning induced electromagnetic pulses and determining a physical property of an underground structure based on the lightning induced electromagnetic pulses. In some embodiments, an apparatus includes an antenna, a low noise amplifier, a processor, cable, and a transmitter. The antenna includes three substantively perpendicular loops of electrical conductors. The processor is configured to condition the amplified signal. The cable is about 100 meters in length and connects the low noise amplifier to the processor. The transmitter is configured to send conditioned data to a data aggregation system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08633699&OS=08633699&RS=08633699
owner: The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University
number: 08633699
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100826
---
This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61 237 074 filed Aug. 26 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with Government support under Grant 16 ANT0636927 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Geological surveys to discover natural and manmade structures below the surface of the ground often employ very low frequency acoustic sources and arrays of very low frequency acoustic sensors. Such surveys produce images of underground structures both man made and geological for the purpose of assisting geological and geophysical exploration such as mineral oil and natural gas exploration discovery of underground tunnels and earthquake fault zone mapping. While suitable for many purposes such surveys suffer some disadvantages including that they require large energy sources involve wide ranging placement of acoustic sources and sensors and the associated costs and can disrupt animal and human activity.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for discovering or mapping natural or manmade structures below the surface of the ground that do not suffer one or more of the disadvantages of acoustic surveys.

According to one set of embodiments a method uses lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs to determine a physical property of an underground structure.

According to another set of embodiments an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to a determine a physical property of an underground structure based on measurements of lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs .

According to another set of embodiments a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause an apparatus to determine a physical property of an underground structure based on measurements of lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs .

According to another set of embodiments an apparatus comprises means for detecting lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs and means for determining a physical property of an underground structure based on those measurements.

According to another set of embodiments an apparatus comprises an antenna a low noise amplifier a cable a processor and a transmitter. The antenna comprises three substantively perpendicular loops of electrical conductors. The low noise amplifier is configured to amplify electromagnetic signals from each loop in a frequency band of interest from about 1.5 kiloHertz to about 50 kiloHertz without emitting airborne electromagnetic waves in the frequency band of interest substantively above an antenna noise threshold. The processor is configured to condition the amplified signal. The cable of about 100 meter length is configured to connect the low noise amplifier to the processor. The transmitter is configured to send conditioned data to a data aggregation system.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Techniques for mapping underground structures based on measurements of lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term underground structure refers to any natural or manmade structure that is disposed below the surface of the ground. The ground refers to any non fluid portion of the surface of the planet Earth and is synonymous with earth in referring to either soil or rock or other material. Underground structure and subsurface structure are used interchangeably herein.

Lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs propagate over large distances in the earth ionosphere waveguide at very low frequency VLF and arrive at nearly all places on the earth from nearly all directions but concentrated in the directions of major thunderstorms. At any location the long range lightning induced EMPs which are also called radio atmospherics and abbreviated as sferics penetrate the earth to large depths and scatter from underground structures. The scattered EMPs propagate back to the ground s surface and are detectable on the surface using simple VLF magnetic loop antennas of modest size. Because such sferics travel such long distances e.g. thousands of miles there are many arrivals at any single location from a wide range of directions. Thus such sferics provide a potential distributed source for geologic mapping over an extended area.

As used herein VLF signals and pulses and waveforms refer to VLF electromagnetic signals and electromagnetic pulses and electromagnetic waveforms unless otherwise clear from the context.

According to some embodiments the detection of these VLF scattered electromagnetic responses is much improved using highly sensitive methods in antenna and low noise VLF receiver design. According to some embodiments the scattered responses are then inverted to infer the underground structures that scattered the EMPs. In some embodiments changes between upstream and downstream properties of the sferics are used to deduce one or more subsurface properties.

To produce an image of the underground scatterers according to some embodiments an array of VLF receivers is placed on the surface above the scatterers and their associated geological structures. The responses from illuminating sferics are detected in this array and stored as temporally sampled VLF waveforms in three receiver channels. Two channels are connected to orthogonal vertical magnetic antenna loops and one channel is connected to a horizontal magnetic antenna loop. The vertical loops capture the sferics transverse field while the horizontal loop captures the vertical field of the scattered response. In an example embodiment waveforms from all three channels are amplified in low noise amplifiers LNAs band limited to 50 kHz kHz where 1 kHz 10Hertz and 1 Hertz Hz is one cycle per second by anti aliasing filters and sampled at 100 kilosamples per second kS s 1 kS 10samples . The sampled waveforms are stored by a computer based data acquisition system.

According to some embodiments the recorded VLF waveforms of lightning induced sferics and their underground response from the array of VLF antennas and receivers are processed using inversion to obtain an image or representation of the underground structures responsible for scattering the sferics.

The use of lightning induced sferics is not previously known for geological exploration. Up to now sferics have been considered as unwanted noise that interfered with the detection of narrow band transmitters VLF sources . Narrow band transmitters both remote and local are the principal means in former approaches for exploration using VLF. Transmitters are often constructed in the field for exploration methods. What was not realized in former approaches is that the lightning generated sferics are very strong and detectable as individual pulses an individual pulse is called a sferic herein with high signal to noise margins and that the broad band and multi directional nature of the sferics is a major technical opportunity for mapping structures at different resolutions and depths thus producing discoveries of major deposits of both precious and common metals and minerals as well as major reserves of oil and gas and some man made structures such as tunnels mine shafts and bunkers.

The use of the illustrated VLF receivers for sferic detection affords greater sensitivity and produces commensurate improvements in the resolution artifact suppression and ambiguity reduction of the reconstructed images. The reconstructed image resolution and quality is additionally enhanced using illustrated methods of sferic characterization direction of arrival estimation and selection. Especially useful in sferic characterization is the ability to determine the precise sferic waveform shape and elevation arrival direction using the illustrated computational computer codes and electromagnetic models.

Although some embodiments using virtual structure are described for purposes of illustration in other embodiments the use of lightning for underground mapping is applied to a mineral exploration such as prospecting for both precious and common metals b oil and gas exploration c detection and discovery of man made underground structures such as tunnels and bunkers and d large urban configuration estimation and control through the use of large arrays of VLF antennas and receivers.

Further details are provided in the following sections 1 Sferics Electromagnetic Pulse EMP Review 2 System Overview 3 Data Collection Equipment 4 Measurement Conditioning 5 Sferic Arrival Structure Reconstruction 6 Inversion to Derive one or more Underground Structures 7 Computer Hardware Overview 8 References and 9 Alternatives and modifications.

Lightning is manifested in three primary charge configurations positive cloud to ground CG negative cloud to ground CG and intra cloud lightning. Of the three the positive cloud to ground CG is the likely source of the electromagnetic pulses that becomes sferics because this configuration appears as the rapid discharge of an electric dipole between charged clouds and the image charge in the conductive earth. This electric discharge with its impulsive current flow radiates electromagnetic fields over a wide band of frequencies. In a far field approximation the electric and magnetic fields produced by this discharge are proportional to the second derivative of the change in dipole moment. In electrodynamics it is the second derivative or acceleration of the charge that gives rise to radiated electromagnetic EM fields. EM fields would propagate isotropically in free space. However the conductive nature of the earth and a nearly parallel layer of conductivity due to ionized plasma about 60 kilometers km 1 km 10meters above the earth known as the ionosphere together form a waveguide structure in which the lightning s EMP s efficiently propagate at VLF frequencies from about 3 kHz to about 30 kHz .

The propagation of the sferic in the earth ionosphere waveguide can be modeled with good precision on several distance scales. Both the earth and the ionosphere are well represented as conducting surfaces where the precision of the representation is chosen according to the scale with for example the highest precision used for the smallest propagation distance scales. Very high resolution maps of the earth s surface are readily available particularly from the United States Geological Survey USGS and can be smoothed to the appropriate scale. Representing the ionosphere as a conducting surface however involves approximations both in space and time. The height smoothness and conductivity of the ionosphere changes from day to day but even more strongly from day to night and even during the course of the day. Simple scaling can account for most of these variations if their magnitudes are known. Indeed if sferics are recorded and later analyzed then by and large the ionosphere s condition can be deduced.

The functional behavior of a sferic propagating between the conductive layers of the earth and the ionosphere is then modeled as a simple waveguide modified to accommodate the earth s curvature and the plasma interactions in the ionosphere s layer. Of the models developed for this purpose Budden 1961 presents an analytical model of the ionosphere as a single layer with a tensor reflection coefficient governed by the Appleton Hartree equation. All references are cited fully in the references section 8. Further Budden s model takes into account curvature of the earth a factor that becomes important when propagation distances are 1000 km or more. For distances less than 1000 km ray tracing techniques similar to the diagram of produce a good approximation of VLF electromagnetic pulse propagation.

The modal nature of a waveguide manifests distinctive features such as transverse polarization and a lower frequency cutoff. For example a strong spectral cutoff below about 1.6 kHz exists in the Earth ionosphere waveguide. Above this cutoff quasi transverse electrical TE and quasi transverse magnetic TM modes QTE and QTM respectively are found. While pure TE and TM waves would possess no longitudinal fields in the direction of propagation the QTE and QTM modes do have some and typically small longitudinal electric and magnetic field components respectively. Frequencies above 30 kHz are subject to higher attenuation in the waveguide and thus do not propagate over long distances. Below 1.5 kHz only the equivalent of a transverse electromagnetic TEM mode in a rectangular waveguide is present. This mode is a quasi TEM mode and can have small longitudinal components due to the inhomogeneity of the ionosphere s lower layer that constitutes the waveguide s upper conducting surface.

Detailed computational models exist to model the sferic s propagation. Ferguson et. al. 1989 developed the Long Wave Propagation Code LWPC that treats the ionosphere as a series of layered media and operates in the frequency domain hence superposition and inverse Fourier transform are used to produce time domain waveforms modeled by Cummer 1997 . An alternative Segmented Long Path SLP code developed by Michael and Timothy Chevalier 2006 is a finite difference time domain FDTD code that models in two dimensions the earth ionospheric waveguide and takes into account fluid plasma motion and cold plasma wave propagation. The Chevalier model produces full time domain waveform as output but does not decompose the sferic into modal components but rather propagates the sferic s electric and magnetic fields explicitly.

Lightning is a random event but occurs at a high rate globally. The rate of lightning strikes exhibits seasonal and diurnal variations. For example late afternoon in the summer months is ripe for high lightning rates. Past field campaigns have been scheduled during the summer to take advantage of the increased activity. On average there are more than 300 lightning strikes per minute. However because the pulses are short enough individual sferics are easily isolated in the measured VLF signals.

Sferics possess distinctive properties in both the time and frequency domain. In the time domain their temporal duration is about 10 milliseconds ms 1 ms 10seconds with an initial strong pulse of about 2 ms followed by a decaying tail as depicted in more detail in later sections. In the frequency domain also depicted in more detail in a later section sferics spectral signature includes a broad band impulse with a lower frequency cutoff around 1.8 kHz. Sferics in nighttime propagation conditions have an extreme low electromagnetic frequency ELF tail that exhibits a backward J shaped hook or tweaks in the extremely low frequency ELF band. The characteristics of sferics are used to separate these pulses from other components of VLF electromagnetic signals and are summarized in Table 1.

That is the response of underground geological structure to the illuminating sferics is delayed in time with respect to the sferics TM or TE pulse propagating in the earth ionosphere waveguide. This delay is conceptually the round trip time for the wave to penetrate from the earth s surface to the underground structure s and return to the surface. Even though at the speed of light in the underground material the round trip time is small typically less than 1 microsecond s 1 s 10seconds this delay introduces a phase shift in the response that is easily measured. Thus in some embodiments the VLF receivers incorporate a high precision Global Positioning System GPS based time reference with an accuracy of better than 20 nanoseconds ns 1 ns 10seconds . Thus delays in the VLF signals have at least that precision. By averaging the response over all samples in the sferic even greater temporal precision is achieved in some embodiments. Thus the phase shift of the response is determined by comparing the response in a horizontal antenna that detects path with the signal from a vertical antenna e.g. that detects path . This comparison is typically performed in the frequency domain via Fourier transform where the phase between horizontal and vertical spectra is just the product of one with the complex conjugate of the other. Then using the Fourier phase shift theorem see e.g. Bracewell 2001 the phase shift in the frequency domain is converted to the delay in the time domain.

In some embodiments the vertical propagation path is inferred from the vertical component of the magnetic field at one or more VLF receivers and the delay is neither determined nor used.

Over the course of a few minutes sferics arrive at VLF receiver from a large variety of directions. As described in more detail below the horizontal path can be inferred from the relative phase of the signals in the north south NS sensitive antenna loop and the east west EW sensitive antenna loop. Given the direction e.g. the direction of path one of the VLF receivers is approximately upstream of the VLF receiver . The property of the structure along this path e.g. along path is inferred from the vertical arrivals at VLF receiver compared to the sferic at the upstream VLF receiver . Similarly the property of the structure along other horizontal paths are inferred from the vertical arrivals at VLF receiver compared to the properties of the sferic at the upstream VLF receivers on those paths . Information from all available horizontal and vertical paths are used to most completely describe the underground structure e.g. by applying methods of computer tomography. This produces a fan of paths that can be inverted using techniques of computer tomography in a process called fan beam tomography.

In other embodiments the incident and scattered fields at individual VLF receivers are used to deduce subsurface structure and measured fields are decomposed into estimated incident and scattered components with much of the vertically propagating fields assigned to the scattered component. An inversion approach such as the Born approximation described below is then used to deduce one or more properties of the underground structure.

In some embodiments each sferic measurement has an associated delay the delays are sorted into ranges that correspond to different depths. For example in some embodiments sferics are classified by sorting the delays into bins that are about 100 nanoseconds apart. This classification corresponds to depths that are material dependent but roughly about 30 meters m each. This classification produces a set of azimuthal profiles each profile associated with a particular depth. Then for each depth and using the azimuthal coverage of all the fan beam projections at that depth and the average changes in the amplitude of the sferics response as the projection s response the tomography is inferred by inversion e.g. via the modified projection slice theorem of Horn 1979 . This inversion thus produces a tomographic slice at each of the depth bins the collection of which is the full 3D image of the underground structure s .

In other embodiments the inversion is based on optimization techniques. In these techniques an initial distribution of underground properties is determined and used to model the resulting scattered field. This scattered field is compared to an observed field and the properties of the underground structure are adjusted to minimize the difference. For example the Born approximation is used to deduce the changes in the underground structure to reduce the difference between the computed and observed scattered fields.

Each portable VLF receiver includes an antenna with three perpendicular loops and in which voltages are induced based on changing magnetic fields in three perpendicular directions. A transverse magnetic field vector component e.g east west EW or x component in one horizontal direction is detected by loop and a transverse magnetic field vector component in the perpendicular horizontal direction e.g. north south NS or y component is detected by loop . A transverse magnetic field vector component in the vertical direction is detected by horizontal loop . Each portable VLF receiver includes a tripod configured to allow the loops of antenna to be properly oriented.

To capture these three channels of induced voltages without emitting VLF EM radiation that will be picked up by the antenna a low noise amplifier is included as a pre amp to minimally boost a signal sent via cable to a local processor and transmitter . At processor transmitter out of range of the antenna the signal is further amplified and transmitted to the aggregator processor . In some embodiments the local processor transmitter further operates to convert an analog signal to a digital signal before transmission.

In various embodiments the aggregator processor collects data from all three channels of each portable VLF receiver and detects sferics determines properties such as direction and amplitude and depth classification of each sferic and infers one or more properties of an underground structure such as conductivity change or permittivity change or horizontal location vertical location horizontal extent or vertical extent of the anomalous conductivity or permittivity or some combination.

In step multiple VLF receivers are positioned to bracket a geographic region of interest ROI to map any underground structure in the vicinity. For example eight VLF receivers are distributed as depicted in . In some embodiments one or more of the VLF receivers are the portable VLF receivers depicted in . In other embodiments more or fewer VLF receivers are positioned. Configurations using 2 3 5 and 12 VLF receivers have been run. In a given site of interest these receivers often remain in location for two to three days for recording. The receivers are not moved during this time. When the receivers are set up they are often set up within 500 meters of each other usually in a ring like configuration around the region of interest. It is the goal of the project to image the subsurface conductivity and permittivity within about 1000 meters of the receivers set up in the field. For example in some embodiments three VLF receivers are positioned about 200 meters apart in a geographic ROI as depicted and described in more detail below with reference to .

In step signals from the VLF receivers are calibrated and conditioned. For example voltages or currents measured in each electrically conducting loop are converted to magnetic field strength based on response curves established for each receiver. This is done so that field strengths measured at different receivers can be compared directly.

In step it is determined whether an EM pulse is measured at a VLF receiver which is characterized as a sferic e.g. satisfies one or more of the properties listed in Table 1 above. If so then in step the direction of propagation of the sferic is determined e.g. by the relative phase of signals on the EW and NS channels for the receiver.

In step based on the direction determined in step an upstream VLF receiver and a downstream VLF receiver are identified. For example based on a direction parallel to horizontal path detected at VLF receiver the upstream VLF receiver through which path passes is identified as the upstream receiver and VLF is identified as the downstream VLF receiver.

In step the depth class of the sferic is determined. For example based on the delay between the arrival of a sferic ground wave on path to VLF receiver and the vertical arrival of a later sferic e.g. at VLF the depth class of path is determined to be associated with the sferic detected in step .

If a sferic is not detected in step or after step if a sferic is detected then control passes to step . In step it is determined whether there is sufficient data to infer one or more properties of a subsurface structure. For example it is determined whether there are ten or more sferics recorded in each of the five depth classifications depicted in for each of seven horizontal directions depicted in .

If not then control passes to step to determine whether conditions are satisfied for ending the process e.g. that a given data accumulation time has expired or a subsurface mapping has already been successfully provided. If end conditions are satisfied then the process ends. Otherwise control passes back to step to calibrate and condition new VLF signals received at each VLF receiver.

If it is determined in step that there is sufficient data to infer one or more properties of a subsurface structure then control passes to step . In step the change of sferic properties due to propagation or backscatter or both is determined for each of one or more horizontal direction ranges for each of one or more depth classifications.

In step the observed changes in sferic properties are used with a model of sferic propagation or scattering or both or an inversion algorithm such as for computer tomography or some combination to deduce one or more properties of a subsurface structure in the vicinity of the VLF receivers. For example the location or spatial extent of an anomaly or the conductivity or permittivity change associated with the anomaly or some combination is determined. Any model or inversion method may be used. In some embodiments described in more detail in a later section a Born Approximation formulation is used.

In step a description of one or more properties of the subsurface structure is presented. For example a graph of inferred conductivity variations is presented as depicted and described in more detail below with reference to . In some embodiments a graph of inferred permittivity variations is presented as depicted and described in more detail below with reference to .

If a sferic is detected in step then in step the direction is determined and an incident waveform is estimated e.g. based on the horizontal components.

In step a current model of the subsurface structure and the estimate of the incident waveform are used with a partial differential equation PDE form of Maxwell s equation to compute a scattered field. The computed scattered field is compared to an observed scattered field based on the measured field and the estimate of the incident field. An optimization method is used to estimate the corrections to the current model of the subsurface structure. This step is called partial differential equation PDE constrained optimization. For example the Born approximation is used to infer the corrections to the current model of the subsurface structure.

In step a material profile is updated to indicate the corrected current model of the subsurface structure.

In step it is determined if the update material profile has converged on a stable result e.g. successive updates have changed the profile by a very small percentage amount in opposite directions. If so control passes to step described above to present the results. If not then control passes to step described above to determine if end conditions are satisfied.

In step VLF receivers are deployed. The sferic EMP s are recorded in an ensemble of Stanford University designed and constructed portable VLF Radio Receivers based on the Stanford AWESOME VLF Receiver itself a product of Stanford s VLF Group Cohen et al. 2010 . Each portable VLF Receiver is capable of converting a sferic s EM pulse into voltages proportional to the EM field strengths via a three axis set of antenna loops each loop at right angles to the others.

The inter receiver variance of the transverse magnetic field parallel to the surface of the earth of a single sferic is generally very small from station to station. However the vertical magnetic field orthogonal to the surface of the earth can vary substantially. The variability of the vertical magnetic field is suspected to be due to scattering from subsurface conductivity and permittivity anomalies and variation in surface topography. However small misalignments of this loop can cause large changes in the signal as the transverse magnetic fields are stronger than the vertical magnetic field thus a small error in antenna alignment can mask scattered fields in the vertical magnetic field. Thus in some embodiments the alignment of the horizontal loop is important.

In the illustrated embodiment the voltages from the antenna loops are amplified by a three channel preamp with exceptional performance wherein each particular channel has a dynamic range in excess of 90 deciBels dB 1 dB 10 log of a ratio of signal strengths and each channel s noise level is at least 50 dB below the VLF levels from natural processes in the earth s ionosphere and magnetosphere. In the illustrated embodiment the preamplifier box is mounted directly on the antenna mast. Inside the preamplifier box are three channels of low noise amplifiers LNAs with each channel on a separate board with the LNA and a line driver capable of driving a 100 meter Belden cable that allows the preamplifiers to be separated from the back end digitizer and laptop based data acquisition system . Each LNA has a large dynamic range of greater than 90 dB and a sensitivity such that a VLF wave with a magnetic amplitude of 0.1 picoTesla pT 1 pT 10Tesla arriving at an antenna loop at normal incidence induces a voltage that is comparable to the LNA s noise floor of 10 nanoVolts per root Hz nV root Hz 1 nV 10volts root Hz square root of one Hertz . The LNA s output is further amplified such that the total gain for the preamplifier stage is 60 dB. The preamplifier box additionally contains a calibration circuit that injects a comb of frequencies of known amplitude into the LNA input network. The calibration tone injection is manual with a button inside the preamp box that is pushed and held to turn on the calibration.

The amplified signals from the preamp are driven by three line drivers onto a 100 meter m cable the other end of which is connected to a digitizer and data acquisition system . The cable is a particular embodiment of the cable depicted in . This cable allows the antenna and preamp to be separated by about 100 m and effectively isolates the high sensitivity receiver s front end and from the relatively noisy processor transmitter called herein the back end of the digital data collection system.

The three channel line receiver has the three line receivers that match the impedance of the Belden cable . The output of each line receiver connects to an anti aliasing filter with a cutoff of 40 kHz to permit Nyquist sampling at a rate of 100 kS s for each channel. These filters additionally have a direct current DC block to suppress frequencies below 100 Hz and thereby reduce contamination from the 60 Hz power line harmonics. Precision timing for the Portable VLF Receiver is obtained from a GPS timing module mounted in the three channel line receiver . The GPS unit connects to a GPS cone antenna not shown externally mounted on a small mast not shown anchored close to the Pelican case . Care is taken in placing the GPS external antenna to have sufficient open sky that at least six GPS satellites are visible at any time.

The ADC digitizes each of the three channels received on line receiver to 16 bits at a sample rate of 100 kS s per channel. In the illustrated embodiment the ADC is a National Instrument digitizer NIDAQ A D . The reference frequency a 100 kHz sample clock is derived from a GPS timing module located in the three channel line receiver . The digitizer samples the three input channels EW NS and AUX where the AUX channel is the signal from the horizontal magnetic loop antenna at 100 kS s each although the sample time for each channel is offset by about 2.5 microseconds s 1 s 10seconds . The exact time offsets are determined using the calibration procedure described below.

The Pelican case is fitted with external connectors for the Belden cable GPS antenna not shown and 12 Volt direct current DC power supply not shown two cooling ports one fan driven with a variable speed temperature sensing controller. The Pelican case has two custom fitted shelves. The bottom shelf houses the line receiver together with the ADC and laptop computer s DC to DC converter. The top shelf holds a laptop computer.

The command and control interface for the back end system runs on the laptop computer with the additional capability for remote wireless access. The wireless service takes advantage of standard wireless protocols and hardware components supported by the laptop together with an external high gain wireless antenna not shown itself separately mounted near the data acquisition system s back end in case . When the Portable VLF receivers are operating they are typically located about 1 km or more from each other. For example in some embodiments the portable VLF receivers are arranged in an approximate circle 12 km in circumference. To insure that all systems are running and acquiring data correctly a remote access wireless service is included in each portable VLF receiver . This service takes advantage of the wireless hardware and driver included in the laptop computer and augmented by an external high gain wireless band antenna. This external antenna is co located on the GPS antenna mast.

In the illustrated embodiment each portable VLF receiver is powered by a deep cycle 100 ampere hour marine 12 Volt DC battery

To provide full coverage of the portable systems a wireless base station serves as the aggregator processor module . In an example embodiment the aggregator processor module is located near the center of a circle inscribed by the twelve portable VLF receivers . The base station module consists of a laptop computer interfaced to a wireless router and wireless band amplifier itself connected to a high gain wireless band antenna. With this arrangement a single operator at the base station can interrogate the status of all twelve systems as well as transfer data and thereby verify that the full system is operational and performing up to expectations.

The end to end response of the Portable VLF Receiver is shown in and for all three channels. is a graph that illustrates an example family of amplitude response curves for a VLF receiver according to an embodiment. The horizontal axis is logarithm base 10 of frequency and the vertical axis is amplitude in dB. Trace depicts the response to a horizontal signal on the NS loop trace depicts the response to a horizontal signal on the EW loop and depicts the response to a vertical signal on the horizontal loop. is a graph that illustrates an example family of phase response curves for a VLF receiver according to an embodiment. The horizontal axis is logarithm base 10 of frequency and the vertical axis is phase in radians. Trace depicts the response to a horizontal signal on the NS loop trace depicts the response to a horizontal signal on the EW loop and depicts the response to a vertical signal on the horizontal loop.

Both the frequency response graph and the phase profile graph have been measured in the manner of a network analyzer by sweeping a reference tone from 0.1 Hz to 50 kHz digitizing the receiver s response and processing the resultant samples off line to compute the spectrum and phase profile. All three channels of the receiver s response are presented.

Measurement conditioning during step includes calibration and equalization removal of 60 Hz power line harmonics and removal of VLF Transmitter signals. These steps are performed to remove distortions in the receiver and contamination due to known sources of interference.

During calibration and channel equalization the channel gains and phase shifts depicted in and for example are measured and compensated such that all three channels in each receiver have uniform performance. The receiver hardware is designed to operate as a linear time invariant LTI system. Therefore the receiver s effect on the recorded signals can be completely described by a transfer function that consists of a magnitude and phase response for its entire frequency range. Since a 100 kHz sampling frequency is used the system as a whole is limited to knowledge of signals from DC to 50 kHz. Filters in the hardware limit signals at both the low end and at the high end anti aliasing . By precisely measuring the phase and amplitude response of the entire system to a calibrator a transfer function and its inverse is determined for each channel in each system that compensates for cable length component variability and internal sampler delays. This calibration procedure also converts the raw ADC values e.g. in volts to physical values of magnetic field strength e.g. in picoTesla.

An example of the calibration effect is shown as waveforms before and after calibration for a single strong sferic in and respectively. Thus and are graphs and respectively which illustrate an example of calibrating and conditioning a VLF signal that includes a sferic pulse according to an embodiment. The identical horizontals axes are time in microseconds s . The vertical axis for graph is amplitude in ADC voltage. Trace depicts the uncalibrated response to a horizontal signal on the NS loop trace depicts the uncalibrated response to a horizontal signal on the EW loop and depicts the uncalibrated response to a vertical signal on the horizontal loop. While the characteristic initial impulse successive large peaks and low frequency tail of a sferic are apparent in the uncalibrated traces a persistent difference among the traces is seen between about 300 and 1000 s 0.3 to 1 ms .

The vertical axis for graph is amplitude of VLF magnetic field in picoTesla pT . Trace depicts the calibrated response to a horizontal signal on the NS loop trace depicts the calibrated response to a horizontal signal on the EW loop and depicts the calibrated response to a vertical signal on the horizontal loop. The inverted relationship between traces on the top graph and bottom graph is due to an inverting amplifier in the preamplifier s LNA. Because the phase compensation equalizes effects such as this the compensated waveforms have opposite polarity to the uncompensated waveforms. The persistent difference among the traces has been eliminated among traces and in the time interval from 300 and 1000 s 0.3 to 1 ms . Thus traces can be compared directly to corresponding calibrated traces at other VLF receivers.

The next step is intended to remove the contaminations from the 60 Hz power line harmonics and consists of filtering with a high pass filter to exclude the 60 Hz harmonics below 1.5 kHz. In other embodiments e.g. in countries with 50 Hz power lines the harmonics of the different power line frequency are removed below 1.5 kHz. Since propagation of the sferics EMP in the earth ionosphere waveguide experiences a low frequency cutoff at 1.5 kHz little of the sferic s energy remains in this band after propagating for distances in excess of 1000 km. Thus it has little impact on the sferic s waveforms to high pass filter them with a 1.5 kHz cutoff. Selecting sferics that come from storms at 1000 km distance and more is desirable for these sferics have become almost fully transverse polarized a property which is valuable for their use in geological imaging.

Typically three to four known VLF transmitters are the main source of residual contamination of the sferic waveforms after the 60 Hz harmonics exclusion. Thus the next step removes the signals of these VLF transmitter in the time domain. VLF transmitters broadcast using minimum shift keying MSK modulation at a frequency close to 24 kHz. For example the broadcast frequencies of the three VLF transmitters in North America are NML 25.2 kHz North Dakota NLK 24.8 kHz Washington and NAA 24.0 kHz Maine . Using a procedure described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 152 232 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein the signal from these transmitters is isolated and subtracted directly from the data in a manner designed to minimize modification of sferic waveforms. Care is taken to remove the fully modulated signal from the data. Typically 99 of the original transmitter power is removed from the samples in each of the three receiver channels.

In the field sampling proceeds continuously and uninterrupted for 24 hour periods collecting 51 gigBytes gB 1 gB 10bytes 1 byte 8 binary digits bits of data per site per day.

Once the time sequences have been cleared of the 60 Hz power line harmonics and the VLF transmitters the time domain samples are scanned for the sferics in step . For example a simple sferic detection algorithm is run that first estimates the standard deviation STD of the background noise exclusive of the sferics. This STD estimate is found by first computing the STD of the fluctuations in all the time samples in a typical window of say 60 seconds then all samples with absolute value greater than five STDs are excluded and the STD is recomputed. This process is repeated until the change in the current STD is less than 20 of the previous STD. At this point the STD is a close estimate of the fluctuations of the background noise exclusive of the sferics.

Using the background noise STD estimate the time samples in the window are tested and all samples with absolute value greater than three times the STD are tagged. The tagged samples are then clustered and all samples within 2 ms of the largest sample in the cluster are associated with a candidate sferic. Next the total power of the candidates is computed by summing the squares of the candidate s samples minus the background estimate the product of the STD and the number of candidate samples and a signal to noise ratio SNR is estimated for the candidate by dividing the total power by the background estimate. The candidate sferics are sorted according to their SNR s and those sferics greater than a minimum SNR are retained for further analysis. The minimum SNR is typically chosen as about 20 dB.

Individual sferics can be tracked over great distances. In the data collected in the field the majority of the energy of a sferic can be viewed in a 256 point window 2.56 ms as in . The sferic consists of two distinctive parts an impulsive beginning and a weaker longer duration ELF tail. This ELF tail 

While the shape of any given sferic is unique they all have a characteristic spectral shape illustrated in . is a graph that illustrates an example average electromagnetic frequency spectrum of thousands of detected sferic pulses according to an embodiment. The horizontal axis is frequency in kHz. The vertical axis is amplitude in normalized units. Trace depicts an average spectrum with a peak near 9 kHz as indicated in Table 1. The gap between 1 kHz and 5 kHz is a characteristic of the Earth ionosphere waveguide modes. Essentially the lowest frequencies 

In step sferics are grouped into different horizontal path direction ranges. For example selected sferics are classified according to the ellipticity of their polarization. The ellipticity is determined by projecting the time samples of the sferic s waveform onto a plane defined by the two orthogonal directions of the magnetic loop antenna i.e. with the EW loop as the ordinate and the NS loop as the abscissa of the plane. In this plane the time samples of each sferic s waveform typically circumscribes a thin ellipse in a lissajous pattern where the direction of the ellipse s major axis is a good estimate of the direction of arrival for the sferic. Assuming for purposes of illustration that the sferic is propagating in TE mode or TM mode then voltages are induced in the magnetic loops at right angles to the direction of propagation.

The log of the ratio of the ellipse s minor axis to its major axis is the ellipticity. Were there no ellipticity to the polarization of the sferic then the lissajous pattern would lie entirely on a straight line. The irregularities in both the ionosphere s and earth s conductivities the latter leading to the ability to infer underground structure changes which break the symmetries in the simple waveguide model result in the emergence of longitudinal components in the waveform of the sferic and is manifest as a non zero ellipticity. depicts a non zero ellipticity. is a graph that illustrates an example distribution of power ratios and directions of sferics detected at a single site over the course of a few minutes according to an embodiment The horizontal axis is direction of propagation in degrees from north. The vertical axis is ellipticity as the ratio of the length of the minor axis B to the major axis B in dB. Each point represents sferic ellipticity and direction of arrival observed at one site. The graph contains ellipticity and direction of arrival for about 1000 sferics recorded continuously during a time interval of just a few minutes. The seemingly continuous swaths are actually a cluster of dots too close together to be individually distinguishable.

During step the detected sferic is characterized by direction of propagation and ellipticity. Sferics are selected for direction of propagation through the geographic region of interest and for small ellipticity thereby selecting those sferics that possess the highest degree of transverse polarization and are thus the best candidates for sources of illumination and mapping of underground geological structure.

Even with such strict selection there are sufficient numbers and types of sferics to serve as sources for tomographic exploration of a region of interest. In North America an independent database from the National Lightning Detection Network NLDN provides time and location of individual lightning strikes. Since propagation in the earth ionosphere waveguide is subject to attenuation rates of a few dB per thousand kilometers sferics from distant parts of the globe are considerably weaker than those within a 2000 km radius. A large fraction of the sferics observed in the field can be correlated with NLDN data thus the location of the source is known.

When inferring properties of a subsurface structure using sferics the local topography should be included. This is demonstrated for a three receiver setup from Northern Idaho during August 2009 shown in . is a map that illustrates positions of three VLF receivers relative to local topography according to an embodiment. The horizontal axis is x distance east in meters from a center point. The vertical axis is y distance north in meters from the center point. Contours of height range from a low of about 1000 meters elevation to a high near 1600 meters elevation. The positions and of three VLF receivers on a ridge near the 1300 meter elevation contour are plotted.

For example a simple 1D layered earth model has been used to demonstrate that surface effects play an important role in field measurements and thus in the inversion methods employed. In other embodiments more sophisticated models that capture more of the complete physical process are used during inversion. is a diagram that illustrates an example two layer model used to estimate the effects of local topography on VLF electromagnetic signals according to an embodiment. The first layer extends from the ground surface to a depth called h . The conductivity and permittivity of the first layer are indicated by the symbols and respectively. The second layer extends from the first layer to a depth called h set arbitrarily large. The conductivity and permittivity of the second layer are indicated by the symbols and respectively.

It is a well known result of Maxwell s equations that phase changes result from oblique incidence of plane waves on an interface of layered media. Given a layered medium and an angle of incidence the reflection and transmission coefficients can be calculated to predict the fields above an infinite planar boundary. Since the majority of the measurements made in the field were made in varied topography such as in the mountains of Idaho and Nevada the effects of the topography were quantified. This model was parameterized so an optimization routine can minimize the difference between the model and the observed data. The optimization was capable of finding very close matches to the majority of sferics used. Furthermore the results were within the bounds of what was considered acceptable and appropriate as governed by advance knowledge of the parameters.

In graph trace shows the original signal as recorded at the VLF receiver. The trace is the signal predicted by the 1D layered earth model. The trace shows the difference between the observed data and the model. Similarly in graph trace shows the original signal as recorded at the VLF receiver trace is the almost identical signal predicted by the 1D layered earth model and trace shows the almost zero difference between the observed data and the model. In graph trace shows the original signal as recorded at the VLF receiver trace is the signal predicted by the 1D layered earth model and trace shows the difference between the observed data and the model. thought E illustrate a rather close fit between a large portion of the observed sferic pulse and the data produced by this 1D model. In other embodiments a subsurface structure is included in an electromagnetic wave model and the optimization fits both the topography and the subsurface structure.

This model demonstrated that a large component of the observed signal can be explained based on the fact that the measurements were taken on a sloped surface. Therefore the topography should be included in an inversion approach employed. The variation of the sferic waveforms is not completely explained by this 1D model as it represents a simplification of the underlying physics involved in wave propagation including the presence of any horizontally limited subsurface structure.

In steps and when a sufficient number of calibrated conditioned selected and characterized sferics is accumulated one or more properties of a subsurface structure e.g. structure are determined. For example in an illustrated embodiment an inversion method involving the Born Approximation is used. In other embodiments a nonlinear iterative inversion process is used to image the subsurface more precisely. In some embodiments a process similar to the Algebraic Reconstruction Techniques ART proposed by Dorn et al. 1999 and the method of adjoint fields for calculating the iteration steps is used to solve the inverse problem for sferic data. According to the algebraic reconstruction technique ART at each step of an iterative inversion process different sources are used in succession. Thus the model is iteratively updated by using successively the information from each individual sferic.

The Born approximation has been investigated from a theoretical view for purposes of illustration. Using a plane wave approximation of the sferic wave form a model of the local topography is used to calculate simulated fields everywhere. Then a few frequencies are selected from the sferic wave forms for use in the inversion.

A finite difference frequency domain FDFD model has been developed for modeling electromagnetic propagation for sub wavelength regimes to simulate sferic measurements for inversion. One of the difficulties raised by several embodiments is that the subsurface structure of interest such as the pockets of mineralization and the locations of interest e.g. in the mountains involve structures substantially smaller than the wavelength on the order of 12 km and greater used for imaging. Most computational techniques for calculating electromagnetic propagation such as finite difference time domain FDTD and discontinuous galerkin approaches are optimized for modeling objects that span multiple wavelengths. By switching to a frequency domain technique the wave fields can be accurately simulated with very fine spatial resolution. By discretizing Maxwell s equations as in Equation 1 one can solve for the fields in the computational domain implicitly as a matrix operation.

With this formulation and the appropriate absorbing boundary conditions such as the standard perfectly matched layer formulation PML the fields can be calculated on a sub wavelength basis.

The top row of graphs graphs and indicate the change in amplitude produced by the buried conductor for each of three components of the magnetic field H. Graph indicates the amplitude changes of the vertical component Hz of the magnetic field detected at the horizontal loop. Graphs and indicate the amplitude changes of the north south component Hy and east west component Hx respectively of the magnetic field. Weaker deviations are indicated by areas and . Stronger deviations are indicated by areas and .

The bottom row of graphs graphs and indicate the change in phase produced by the buried conductor for each of three components of the magnetic field H. Graph indicates the phase change of the vertical component Hz of the magnetic field detected at the horizontal loop. Graphs and indicate the phase changes of the north south component Hy and east west component Hx respectively of the magnetic field. Negative deviations are indicated by areas and . Positive deviations are indicated by areas and .

Minor deviations in the free space above the lossy medium are detectible by the sensitive VLF receivers described herein and can be used to deduce the subsurface scattering structures.

The inverse problem is distinctly non linear. That is the relationship between the subsurface materials and observed fields is not linear. However under certain conditions the inverse problem can be linearized thus easing the computational difficulties involved in solving a nonlinear problem. One such linearization is known as the Born Approximation. By assuming the that the scattered wave fields are small with respect to the incident wave fields the inverse problem can be reduced to a linear set of equations solvable using least squares and Tikhonov regularization techniques. Preliminary work with Born Approximation methods has been done using computed simulated data similar to that depicted in through but with no topography variations. B A and B compare the reconstruction of buried materials as calculated using the Born Approximation to the correct distribution used for the simulated data.

In spite of some differences the Born Approximation is successful in indicating the horizontal location and extent as well as an approximate depth and value of conductivity and permittivity anomalies.

The processes described herein for mapping underground structures based on lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs including one or more steps of the processes of and may be advantageously implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed in this section.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to mapping underground structures based on lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for mapping underground structures based on lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs . Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for mapping underground structures based on lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver.

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform one or more of the inventive steps described herein to mapping underground structures based on lightning induced electromagnetic pulses EMPs . The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

The following references are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein except insofar as any term is given a meaning that is contradictory to the meaning of that tem as defined herein.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

