---

title: Rotatable gun mount
abstract: A gun mount for spanning an opening, such as a door or window, may include a generally tubular bar having a pivot and lock structure on one end. The bar may include a pair of slots formed on opposing sides of the bar. A locking sleeve may be slidable on the bar. A fastener may be fixed to the locking sleeve and translatable in the pair of slots in the bar. A second generally tubular bar may include a yoke at one end and a hinge assembly at another end. The yoke may be rotatably engaged with the pivot and lock structure. The pivot and lock structure may include a locking groove. A spring-loaded locking plunger may be translatably disposed in the yoke and may include a protrusion that is selectively engagable with the locking groove.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08336441&OS=08336441&RS=08336441
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08336441
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101118
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

A machine gun mount may be used to support and mount a machine gun. The machine gun may be for example an M240H machine gun. The machine gun may be mounted to or on a structure. The structure may be for example a helicopter such as a CH47 Chinook helicopter. A helicopter or other structure may include doors and windows. The machine gun mount may be used to mount the machine gun at a door or window. In a CH47 Chinook helicopter for example machine guns may be mounted at multiple locations. The multiple locations may include a front door and a window.

Problems with known machine gun mounts have existed for approximately 50 years. One known mount includes a fixed bar that spans the opening in a doorway or window. When the fixed bar is installed across a doorway or window personnel must either crawl under or over the fixed bar for ingress or egress. Crawling over or under the fixed bar is a major problem especially if the personnel are dressed in full combat gear.

A need exists for a gun mount that can be easily moved so it does not block ingress or egress through an access point.

It is an object of the invention to provide a gun mount that can be easily moved so it does not block ingress or egress through an access point.

One aspect of the invention is a mount for a gun. The mount may include a generally tubular bar having a pivot and lock structure on one end. The bar may include a pair of slots formed on opposing sides of the bar. A locking sleeve may be slidable on the bar. A fastener may be fixed to the locking sleeve and translatable in the pair of slots in the bar. The mount may include a second generally tubular bar having a yoke at one end and a hinge assembly at another end. The yoke may be rotatably engaged with the pivot and lock structure.

The pivot and lock structure may include a locking groove and an angled surface having one edge at the locking groove. The angled surface may slope inwardly from the one edge toward another end of the generally tubular bar. A spring loaded locking plunger may be translatably disposed in the yoke and may have a protrusion that is selectively engagable with the locking groove. A spring loaded lock release may be translatably disposed in the generally tubular bar and may be engaged with the fastener. The protrusion of the locking plunger may be disengaged from the locking groove of the pivot and lock structure by translation of the spring loaded lock release.

A pin may be disposed in openings in the yoke and the pivot and lock structure. In an unlocked position of the mount the generally tubular bar may be rotatable around the pin. The second generally tubular bar may include a pair of slots formed therein and the spring loaded locking plunger may include a transverse opening. The mount may further include a second fastener translatably disposed in the pair of slots in the second generally tubular bar and disposed in the transverse opening of the spring loaded locking plunger.

A pintle socket may be fixed to the second generally tubular bar. An ammunition container may be supported by the second generally tubular bar. The mount may include a pintle and a gun cradle. The pintle may have one end disposed in the pintle socket and the other end fixed to the gun cradle.

The pivot and lock structure may include a blocker in the form of a protuberance on a side of the locking groove opposite the angled surface. As the protrusion of the locking plunger disengages from the locking groove of the pivot and lock structure the blocker may limit the direction of rotation of the yoke with respect to the pivot and lock structure.

In one embodiment an ammunition container may be supported by the gun cradle. The cradle mounted ammunition container may include a mounting bracket that extends around a front wall and two side walls of the ammunition container. The ammunition container may include a cross over compartment adjacent first and second ammunition storage compartments. The cross over compartment may include a filler block having a transverse dimension about the same as a transverse dimension of one of the first and second ammunition storage compartments and an axial dimension about the same as one half an axial extent of the cross over compartment. The filler block may have a height about the same as a height of a partition between the cross over compartment and one of the first and second ammunition storage compartments.

The mounting bracket on the cradle mounted ammunition container may include a protruding portion that defines a gap between the front wall of the ammunition container and the protruding portion. The protruding portion of the mounting bracket may include an opening having a generally inverted U shape. A second mounting bracket may be fixed to the gun cradle and a mounting plate may be fixed to the second mounting bracket. A lug with a through hole may be fixed to the second mounting bracket. The mounting plate may include a raised portion having a generally inverted U shape.

The cradle supported ammunition container may be fixed to the gun cradle by inserting the mounting plate into the gap between the front wall of the ammunition container and the protruding portion of the mounting bracket such that the generally inverted U shape opening of the mounting bracket mates with the generally inverted U shape raised portion of the mounting plate. The ammunition container may be further fixed to the gun cradle by inserting a locking plunger staked to the through hole in the lug through an opening in an ear that extends from the mounting bracket of the ammunition container.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A gun mount that spans an opening may include a swing away feature to allow rapid ingress and egress of humans. The swing away feature may allow a gun to be pivoted or rotated out of the opening of a door window or other structure. The gun mount may include multiple ammunition containers. The multiple ammunition containers may include two different ammunition containers that have a 400 ready round capacity. Prior machine gun mounts may have had only a 200 ready round capacity. The gun mount may include a spent case collection system.

The gun mount may include a cradle mounted ammunition container. The cradle mounted ammunition container may incorporate a compact double stack design. The double stack design may include no internal moving parts. The double stack design may reliably feed ammunition with no internal jams. In the past internal jams may have occurred at the belt crossover point.

A gun not shown may be mounted on a gun cradle . One side of the gun may interact with a spent case collector that leads to a spent case storage container . Container may be supported by cradle . Another side of the gun may interact with a magazine feed mechanism disposed at area . In the embodiment of a bar mounted ammunition container may supply ammunition to the gun in mount via a flexible chute . As better seen in gun cradle may be fixed to a pintle . As is known in the art gun cradle is movable in azimuth and elevation on pintle . Pintle may be fixed to and supported by a rotatable arm assembly .

One end of mount may include a hinge assembly . Hinge assembly may include a mounting pin for fixing mount to a suitable bracket located on one side of the opening in the structure. The other end of mount may include a support member shown enlarged in with a generally spherical end . Support member may be fixed to a side of the opening in the structure opposite the side where hinge assembly is fixed. Thus arm assembly may span across the opening in the structure.

Arm assembly may include a guide bushing that fits over spherical end of support member . Spherical end may be inserted into bushing when mount is in a locked position that spans the opening in the structure. In the unlocked position guide bushing may be moved off of spherical end of support member and mount may be rotatable about an axis pin in hinge assembly . In mount is rotatable in direction R about axis pin . The rotation of mount about axis pin allows one to remove mount from the opening in the structure with relative ease.

The structure of arm assembly will now be described in more detail. Arm assembly may include a generally tubular bar and a second generally tubular bar . Tubular bar may include guide bushing at one end and a pivot and lock structure at the other end. Second tubular bar may include hinge assembly at one end and a yoke at the other end. Yoke may be rotatably engaged with pivot and lock structure . The rotatable joint between yoke and pivot and lock structure may allow bar to pivot with respect to bar and thereby allow a user to lock and unlock arm assembly .

Referring to tubular bar may include a pair of slots formed on opposing sides of bar . Pivot and lock structure may be fixed to one end of bar . The other end of bar may include a transverse opening . Opening may be used to attach guide bushing to bar with a fastener . Pivot and lock structure may include a locking groove formed on an end thereof. At an edge of locking groove an angled surface may slope inwardly. An axial channel may be formed through pivot and lock structure and bar . Channel may intersect locking groove . A blocker may be formed on the end of pivot and lock structure opposite angled surface . Blocker may be in the form of a protuberance on a side of locking groove opposite angled surface . A safety pin opening may be formed completely through pivot and lock structure . A sight hole may be formed in pivot and lock structure .

Referring now to a locking sleeve may be slidable on bar . A fastener may be inserted transversely through locking sleeve and slots in bar . Fastener may be translatable in slots in bar . A spring loaded lock release shown in detail in may be translatably disposed in axial channel in pivot and lock structure and bar . Lock release may be fixed to fastener . Lock release may include a spring . When locking sleeve is moved to the left as viewed in lock release is also moved to the left by fastener and therefore spring may be compressed. When locking sleeve is released spring may decompress and move lock release back to the position shown in .

Yoke may be rotatably engaged with pivot and lock structure via a pin . A spring loaded locking plunger may be translatably disposed in yoke . Plunger may include a protrusion that is selectively engagable with locking groove of pivot and lock structure . In the locked position protrusion is engaged in locking groove and yoke cannot be rotated with respect to pivot and lock structure and consequently tubular bar cannot be rotated with respect to tubular bar . In the unlocked position protrusion is removed from locking groove and yoke may be rotated with respect to pivot and lock structure and consequently tubular bar can be rotated with respect to tubular bar .

In the locked position of an end of lock release abuts protrusion of plunger . When locking sleeve is moved to the left in end of lock release forces protrusion out of locking groove . As bar is rotated with respect to bar protrusion slides down angled surface of pivot and lock structure . From the locked position shown in rotation of bar with respect to bar may be limited to only one direction by blocker . Rotation in the opposite undesired direction is prevented because blocker abuts a circular protrusion support of plunger . A seal to prevent entry of debris around plunger may be placed in a groove formed behind circular protrusion support .

The end of plunger opposite protrusion may be supported in bar . A portion of bar is shown in . The remainder of bar is shown in . A male end of bar may be pressed into a female end of bar and further secured therein with screw type fasteners disposed in openings in female end and openings in male end . As shown in bar may include a slot formed therein. Another slot not visible in may be formed on the opposite side of tubular bar . Spring loaded locking plunger may include a transverse opening . A fastener not shown similar to fastener of may be translatably disposed in slots in bar and disposed in transverse opening of spring loaded locking plunger . A compression spring may be used to bias plunger in the locked position.

As shown in hinge assembly may be fixed to an end of bar . Openings in assembly may accommodate mounting pin . The axis pin defines the axis of rotation of mount . A safety pin may be used to lock mount in the position shown in or in various positions of rotation corresponding respectively to the plurality of pin openings in assembly . In pin is inserted in an opening that is not visible in . A similar safety pin may be inserted in openings in yoke and openings in pivot and lock assembly to prevent rotation of bar with respect to bar if locking plunger were to fail. To aid in rotating arm assembly thrust bearings may be used in hinge assembly .

Referring to a pintle socket may be fixed to bar for receiving pintle . A pair of spaced apart clamps may be fixed to bar . Clamps may include can pins for supporting the bar mounted ammunition container . Spring plungers may be inserted in openings in clamps and openings in tabs on each end of bar mounted container .

As seen in container may include a roller made of for example nylon or plastic. Roller may rotate on a transversely mounted shaft . When using belted ammunition with conventional open face links one side of the belt is open to the brass cartridges of the ammunition and the other side of the belt is primarily the steel links. In an ammunition container such as container the ammunition belt may feed so that the steel side of the belt contacts the roller . If roller were a metal roller it would be prone to excessive wear. The rotating roller made of a material such as plastic or nylon may greatly reduce wear.

The portion of bracket at front wall may include a protruding portion that defines a gap between front wall and portion . Protruding portion may include an opening . Opening may be generally shaped like an inverted U. An ear may project forward from mounting bracket at the corner of front wall and side wall . Ear may include an opening therein.

As shown in a second mounting bracket may be fixed to gun cradle using for example bolts . A mounting plate may be fixed to second mounting bracket . A lug having a through hole may be fixed to second mounting bracket . A locking plunger may be staked to through hole in lug . Referring to mounting plate may include a raised portion having a generally inverted U shape.

Ammunition container may be fixed to gun cradle by inserting mounting plate into gap between front wall of ammunition container and protruding portion of mounting bracket such that generally inverted U shape opening of mounting bracket mates with generally inverted U shape raised portion of mounting plate . Furthermore ammunition container may be additionally fixed to gun cradle by inserting locking plunger through opening in ear that extends from mounting bracket of ammunition container .

As shown in container may include a lid hinged at end . Beneath lid may be a generally planar feed tray . Feed tray may be hinged at opposite end of container . Feed tray may include a pair of tray guides that define a tapered feed area . A non rotating roller may be disposed at the wide end of feed area . Non rotating roller may have a curved exterior surface to aid in feeding ammunition belts from the interior partitions of container to feed tray . Because roller may be non rotating it may not be prone to jamming that may occur when foreign matter accumulates around a rotating roller. Roller and feed tray may be made of for example steel.

When using belted ammunition with conventional open face links one side of the belt is open to the brass cartridges of the ammunition and the other side of the belt is primarily the steel links. In an ammunition container such as container the ammunition belt may feed so that the open side i.e. the brass cartridges of the belt contacts roller . Repeated contact of the brass cartridge surfaces on steel roller may cause less deterioration of roller than if the primarily steel side of the ammunition belt were to repeatedly contact roller .

Referring to cradle mounted ammunition container may include a cross over compartment that spans two ammunition storage compartments . Cross over compartment may include a filler block . Filler block may be made of for example aluminum. Block may have a transverse dimension x that may be about the same width as compartment of container . Block may have an axial dimension y that may be about one half the axial extent z of cross over compartment . Block may have a height or vertical dimension h that may be about the same as a vertical dimension k of partition between cross over compartment and compartment . Filler block may help prevent the cross over portion of the ammunition belt located in cross over compartment from binding and jamming up.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

