---

title: Adaptive surveillance and guidance system for vehicle collision avoidance and interception
abstract: A surveillance and guidance method and system for use with autonomously guided, man-on-the-loop or man-in-the-loop guided vehicles where the presence of obstacles must be considered in guiding the vehicle towards a target includes a navigation system configured to determine the position of the vehicle on which it is equipped. A communication system is configured for data exchange between the vehicle, neighboring vehicles and ground stations. A surveillance system is configured to detect and locate fixed or moving targets and obstacles. A computer is configured to track the position of targets and obstacles and to provide guidance commands or 4D flight paths to perform collision avoidance with respect to traffic regulations and procedures, and operational airspace restrictions. Additional computer tasks include station keeping or interception of targets. A command and control system is configured to interact with a user interface and control the vehicle's actuators.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08380367&OS=08380367&RS=08380367
owner: The University of North Dakota
number: 08380367
owner_city: Grand Forks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100326
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 211 304 filed Mar. 26 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention was developed at least in part with government funding pursuant to grant no. FA4861 07 R 0003 awarded by the Department of Defense Joint Unmanned Aircraft Systems Center of Excellence at Creech Air Force Base Nevada. Further funding was provided pursuant to grant no. 50441 CI CPS from the Defense Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research awarded by the U.S. Army Research Office part of the Department of Defense. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to methods and systems for surveillance and guidance of vehicles more particularly but not exclusively the invention relates to airborne surveillance and guidance avionics equipped on Unmanned Aircraft Systems UAS for midair collision avoidance and interception.

To integrate UAS into the National Airspace System NAS the Federal Aviation Administration FAA requires an equivalent level of safety comparable to see and avoid requirements for manned aircraft. UAS must be able to avoid colliding with air traffic or other obstacles that pose a collision hazard as well as comply with FAA regulations and procedures.

Conventional collision avoidance systems for manned aircraft such as Traffic Collision Avoidance System TCAS are unsatisfactory for UAS mainly because of the lack of autonomous mode of operation and the inability to detect non cooperative obstacles that do not reply to interrogations such as vehicles not equipped with transponders military aircraft equipped with Identification Friend or Foe IFF systems operating in Mode 4 and aircraft operating with an interference limited or disabled transponder. TCAS is an important consideration for air traffic safety as cooperative aircraft equipped with TCAS are required by aviation authorities to comply with Resolution Advisories RA provided by the system.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 459 411 6 483 454 6 657 578 and 6 789 016 suggest using transponder and transceiver equipment such as TCAS Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast ADSB Station Keeping Equipment SKE other types of data links or a combination thereof to perform both collision avoidance and station keeping e.g. formation flight with cooperative aircraft. ADS B is viewed by the FAA as the key enabling technology for the future air traffic management system. It provides situational awareness as the ADS B transceiver reports position velocity and intended trajectory of neighboring vehicles by receiving data from other ADS B equipped vehicles or from Ground Based Transceivers GBT broadcasting Traffic Information System TIS messages. ADS B allows non cooperative vehicles to be located as GBT can relay ground based radar information in TIS broadcasts. SKE is typically used by military aircraft to communicate position range and control information between formation members for functions such as autopilot. SKE is integrated with TCAS to network surveillance information over the SKE communication links. These inventions have limited capabilities of detecting non cooperative obstacles through the use of ADS B and TIS availability is constrained by ground based radar and GBT station coverage.

Methods that have been proposed to address these problems include the use of forward facing cameras mounted on the aircraft as shown in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 918 442 5 581 250 and 7 061 401. These systems are impeded by glare clutter and artifacts display intolerance to highly dynamic environments are unable to accurately determine the range and velocity of neighboring obstacles and are usually limited to airspace monitored directly in front of the aircraft.

The systems disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 755 818 5 321 489 and 6 804 607 utilize laser beam technology or a combination of laser and camera technology. These inventions exhibit drawbacks similar to camera systems except for a possible improvement in range determination.

Airborne or ground based radars are proposed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 434 141 5 050 818 5 464 174 and 5 872 526 to alleviate some of those issues and offer accuracy suitable for the interception of targets. The significant power requirements of current radars limit the detection range in airborne applications and reliance on ground based radars is limited to geographical regions where fixed and mobile radars are or can be deployed.

A combination of TCAS and airborne radar is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 208 284 and is a suitable method to satisfy the minimum requirements for collision avoidance of both cooperative and non cooperative obstacles in any type of environment and allows elegant handling of TCAS Resolution Advisories RA . This invention allows for the use of TCAS RA but besides limited range for detecting non cooperative obstacles the system cannot avoid terrain operational airspace boundaries or severe weather.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 924 401 5 136 512 and 5 892 462 propose several methods for performing ground collision avoidance using Above Ground Level AGL and Mean Sea Level MSL altitude sensors Digital Terrain Elevation Database DTED information and operational airspace restrictions such as a minimum altitude. These inventions cannot avoid small obstacles of high elevation such as communication towers or power lines and do not accommodate for station keeping or interception modes of operation.

The systems described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 531 978 6 785 610 and 7 024 309 offer improved operational capabilities and flexibility by relying on multiple data links and surveillance sensors. None of these methods however single handedly manages all required modes of operation i.e. collision avoidance station keeping and interception of targets takeoff landing and taxiing of the aircraft or allows the safe integration of UAS into the National Airspace System NAS as these inventions lack compliance with air traffic regulations and procedures.

There is an unmet need for a surveillance and guidance system capable of self separation collision avoidance or interception in all visibility conditions or in the event of sensor or communication failure while complying with traffic regulations and procedures. Furthermore there exists a need for such a system that is compact and lightweight and which optimizes the employment of its navigation communication and surveillance systems so as to maximize efficiency and minimize power requirements and cost. It is also desirable for the system to be capable of operating regardless of the command and control system or of the interface available on the vehicle without the need for user input and in different airspace environments.

The present invention provides a system that allows a vehicle to perform all operational requirements of a mission in autonomous semi autonomous e.g. man in the loop or manned aircraft control while avoiding collisions and complying with traffic regulations and procedures. Embodiments of the present invention can enable a vehicle to travel safely and effectively in an environment which contains other airborne or ground obstacles qualified as moving or fixed. As a result operational capabilities and modes of operation can be extended while increasing safety. In general the present invention employs surveillance and communication systems to detect airborne and ground obstacles and to provide additional situational awareness. Self separation and collision avoidance procedures can follow FAA regulations e.g. FAR Part 91.113 Right of Way Rules or instructions provided by advisory systems such as TCAS.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a surveillance and guidance system for use in autonomous semi autonomous or manned aircraft control where the presence of obstacles must be considered in guiding the aircraft towards a target includes a navigation system configured to determine a position velocity and intended trajectory of the aircraft. A communication system is configured for communication between the aircraft neighboring airborne and ground vehicles ground stations and radio beacons. A surveillance system is configured to detect and locate neighboring fixed or moving targets and obstacles airports runways and taxiways. A flight computer is configured to track the targets and obstacles determine their position velocity and intended trajectory and to generate guidance commands or four dimensional 4D flight paths e.g. latitude longitude altitude and Estimated Time of Arrival ETA of a set of waypoints for the purpose of self separation collision avoidance station keeping and interception while complying with air traffic regulations and procedures and operational airspace restrictions. A command and control system is configured to display aircraft status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths on a user interface thereafter referenced as a Flight Management System FMS and to process guidance commands or 4D flight paths to control the aircraft.

According to an aspect of the present invention the navigation system can include a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS or any of its derivative forms e.g. Differential Global Positioning System an Inertial Navigation System INS or any other sensor which allows access to GNSS or INS information. The navigation system can also include static and dynamic pressure sensors a magnetometer and a laser range finder. In addition the navigation system can include other avionics already equipped on the aircraft that can provide the same type of information such as a radio navigation system or an autopilot with an integrated navigation system.

According to another aspect of the present invention the communication system can include a Universal Access Transceiver UAT data link a Mode C data link a Mode S data link a Mode S Extended Squitter ES data link a VHF or UHF data link an Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System ACARS or AOA ACARS Over Aviation VHF Link Control data link a VHF Digital Link VDL a Link data link an ARC data link a Multifunction Advanced Data Link MADL a Tactical Targeting Network Technology TTNT data link a Tactical Common Data Link TCDL a Satellite Communication SATCOM data link a Station Keeping Equipment SKE data link or other type of data link suitable for transmitting and receiving data and voice communications Local Area Augmentation System LAAS Instrument Landing System ILS and radio beacon signals e.g. Distance Measuring Equipment DME or VHF Omni directional Radio Range VOR . Stand alone avionics need not be installed on the aircraft if an acceptable data link is already accessible on the aircraft.

According to a further aspect of the present invention the surveillance system can include a radar altimeter a laser range finder an Active Electronically Scanned Array AESA radar system a passive phased array radar system a laser electro optical or infrared imager or other type of surveillance sensor capable of detecting and locating neighboring fixed or moving targets and obstacles airports runways and taxiways. The surveillance system can advantageously use an existing onboard sensor or data link to perform the surveillance function.

According to further aspects of the present invention the flight computer includes a memory device which suitably stores for retrieval data such as information related to characteristics performance status flight plans and flight logs of the aircraft or other vehicles navigation and surveillance information database information pertaining to the position of targets and obstacles such as a Digital Terrain Elevation Database DTED information related to air traffic regulations and procedures the location of operational airspace restrictions or other types of path restrictions such as geopolitical boundaries as well as the computer software programs used by the flight computer. The data can be uploaded via a data link or updated automatically by the computer programs running on the flight computer. The flight computer includes a first component configured to filter and fuse the data provided by the navigation system communication system the surveillance system and the memory device to track the position of targets obstacles airports runways taxiways and navigation aids. The flight computer can also include a second component that is configured to generate aircraft status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths to enable the command and control system to perform self separation collision avoidance station keeping and interception in all weather conditions and all phases of flight including takeoff landing and taxiing of the aircraft.

According to further aspects of the present invention the command and control system is configured to display aircraft status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths provided by the flight computer and to process guidance commands or 4D flight paths to control the aircraft. The command and control system can include an FMS for interaction with an operator of the aircraft and Air Traffic Control ATC . The FMS includes a display device to visualize the aircraft status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths. The FMS includes an input device which enables an operator to issue or modify guidance commands or 4D flight paths and communicate with ATC. If the user interface is at a remote location information is relayed through the communication system. Specifically such as in the situation of a flight director an operator of the aircraft or ATC can be provided guidance commands or 4D flight paths on a user interface from which guidance commands or 4D flight paths can also be issued or modified. An operator of the aircraft and ATC can interact by exchanging information relayed by the communication system. The command and control system includes a Flight Control System FCS which processes the guidance commands or 4D flight paths issued by the flight computer or the FMS and then controls the aircraft actuators. The FCS can advantageously be an acceptable autoflight or autopilot system already accessible on the aircraft. In this case the autoflight or autopilot system automatically translates heading airspeed groundspeed altitude vertical velocity or other high level guidance commands or latitude longitude altitude Estimated Time of Arrival ETA or other 4D flight paths into actuator control signals.

The present invention can be applied for the guidance of autonomous semi autonomous or manned vehicles. Beside the embodiment stated above for use on an aircraft another preferred embodiment pertains to the use on ground or marine vehicles and more particularly on cars trucks and other motorized vehicles traveling on roads or boats submersibles or other motorized vehicles usable in water. It should be understood that the detailed description of the invention and the specific examples presented while indicating certain embodiments of the present invention are provided for illustration purposes because various changes within the spirit and scope of the invention are apparent from the detailed description of the invention and claims that follow.

While the above identified drawing figures set forth several embodiments of the invention other embodiments are also contemplated as noted in the discussion. In all cases this disclosure presents the invention by way of representation and not limitation. It should be understood that numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art which fall within the scope and spirit of the principles of the invention. The figures may not be drawn to scale. Like reference numbers have been used throughout the figures to denote like parts.

A surveillance and guidance method and system in accordance with the present invention combines the ability to safely and effectively guide a vehicle towards a target in the presence of obstacles while complying with traffic regulations and procedures. In one embodiment the invention can follow current and possible future FAA regulations and procedures pertaining to manned and unmanned aircraft and can comply with up to date standards such as RTCA DO 178B DO 248B Software Considerations in Airborne Systems and Equipment Certification RTCA DO 254 Design Assurance Guidance for Airborne Electronic Hardware in part or in total with RTCA SC 203 MASPS Minimum Aviation System Performance Standards for Sense and Avoid Systems for Unmanned Aircraft Systems and with ASTM F2411 04 Standard Specification for Design and Performance of an Airborne Sense and Avoid System . Additional features and benefits of the present invention will be appreciated in view of the description that follows. For example the present invention can be applied to airborne vehicles ground based vehicles or marine based vehicles.

By way of overview and referring to according to a non limiting embodiment of the present invention a surveillance and guidance system includes a navigation system configured to determine a position velocity and intended trajectory of the aircraft. A communication system is configured to allow the aircraft to communicate data with neighboring airborne and ground vehicles ground stations and radio beacons. A surveillance system is configured to detect and locate neighboring fixed or moving targets and obstacles airports runways and taxiways. A flight computer is configured to track the position of targets obstacles airports runways taxiways and navigation aids and to provide aircraft status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths to a command and control system . The command and control system is configured to display aircraft status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths provided by the flight computer and to process guidance commands or 4D flight paths to control the aircraft.

The navigation system is configured to determine a position velocity and intended trajectory of the aircraft. In one embodiment the navigation system can include an Embedded GPS Inertial Navigation System EGI . The EGI includes a GPS receiver that is integrated with an Inertial Navigation System INS . A GPS antenna receives GPS signals relayed to the GPS receiver . Any EGI suitable for operation aboard an aircraft can be used as desired for a particular application. The navigation system can include a standalone GPS receiver which can be but is not required to be integrated with an INS in a known manner such as by using a Kalman filter to replicate the output of an EGI . In this case the flight computer which can include a dedicated processor for the navigation system runs a navigation sensor fusion routine to integrate the GPS receiver and the INS outputs. Navigation sensor fusion routines for aircraft are well known in the art and a detailed explanation of their design and operation is not necessary for an understanding of the present invention. Any INS suitable for operation aboard an aircraft can be used as desired for a particular application. The GPS receiver can be any Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS receiver capable of interpreting GNSS signals and outputting information relating to the position of the aircraft or of GNSS radio beacons. The GPS antenna can be any GNSS receive antenna capable of receiving GNSS signals and that is mountable on an aircraft. The navigation system can also use GPS and INS sensor information available from an existing on board sensor or from a multifunction device such as an autopilot with an integrated navigation system. Similarly if static pressure sensor dynamic pressure sensor magnetometer laser range finder or other sensor information is suitable for position determination the navigation sensor fusion routine can integrate other sensor information available on the aircraft to enhance the accuracy of the navigation system or to limit the impact of the loss of GNSS signals.

The communication system is configured to communicate data between the aircraft neighboring airborne and ground vehicles ground stations and radio beacons. The communication system includes a data transceiver system . The data transceiver system transmits and receives data signals relayed by one or more transmit receive antennas . The transmit receive antennas can have separate or shared apertures and can be directional or omni directional. The transmit receive antennas can be any suitable antenna that is able to relay data signals to and from the data transceiver system and that is mountable on the aircraft. The data transceiver system can operate as transmit and receive transmit only or receive only as desired for a particular application. Many data links are suitable for the communication system . Four data link embodiments are set forth below in a preferred embodiment though these data links are described merely by way of example and not limitation.

A first data link of the communication system can be deployed through the use of an Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast ADS B transceiver or receiver which uses a Universal Access Transceiver UAT Mode S Extended Squitter ES or VDL Mode 4 data link. ADS B provides situational awareness as the ADS B transceiver reports position velocity and intended trajectory or provisional trajectory of neighboring vehicles by receiving data relayed by a compatible transmit receive antenna and transmitted by other ADS B equipped vehicles and Ground Based Transceivers GBT broadcasting Traffic Information System TIS messages. Additionally ADS B can provide flight information such as meteorological data through Flight Information Service FIS messages which can be added to the surveillance information to avoid storms turbulences etc.

A second data link of the communication system can be deployed through the use of a Traffic Collision Avoidance System TCAS transponder which uses a Mode C or Mode S data link. TCAS signals are relayed by one or multiple TCAS compatible transmit receive antennas . If a risk of collision is established by the TCAS transponder a Resolution Advisory RA is generated by the TCAS transponder which indicates a range of vertical speeds at which the aircraft should be flown to avoid other TCAS equipped aircraft. The vertical direction of the RA is coordinated between multiple aircraft via the Mode S data link if established so that two or more aircraft perform coordinated maneuvers to prevent mid air collision.

A third data link of the communication system can be deployed through the use of a VHF transceiver to enable radio communications between an operator of the aircraft and Air Traffic Control ATC whenever the aircraft operates in Air Traffic Management ATM airspace via a VHF compatible transmit receive antennas . The VHF transceiver can also be used to receive Local Area Augmentation System LAAS Instrument Landing System ILS or radio beacon signals to locate airports runways and navigation aids providing information for takeoff landing and taxiing.

A fourth data link of the communication system can be deployed through the use of a wireless data transceiver connecting the aircraft to neighboring airborne and ground vehicles or ground stations in order to transmit and receive data or voice communications and to enable remote interaction with the flight computer . For use in tactical mode such as in the context of military operation the data link may have a low probability of detection and interception. The data link can include a Link data link which improves situation awareness by transmitting and receiving the heading and location of the aircraft and has a low probability of intercept as it uses spread spectrum technology. The data link can include a Station Keeping Equipment SKE data link which is used by the military to communicate position range and control information to formation members for functions such as autopilot. The data link can include a Multifunction Advanced Data Link MADL which uses multiple phased array antennas to provide spherical coverage around the aircraft. The steered stabilized pencil beam MADL cannot be intercepted unless the listener is phase locked on the beam which is constantly moving. The data link can include a XM WX Satellite Weather data link which can provide meteorological data that can be added to the surveillance information to avoid storms turbulences etc. The wireless data transceiver can assist other data links in providing surveillance information by receiving position information of air traffic sensed by ground based radar from a ground station in a system analogous to Ground Based Transceivers GBT .

It should be noted that while the ADS B transceiver the TCAS transponder the VHF transceiver and the wireless data transceiver can be used together as shown in one or more can be omitted from the data transceiver system in alternative embodiments. Final selection of the data links of the communication system can be based upon the benefits performance costs integration feasibility applicable regulations and standards or as required for a particular application. Alternatively a Tactical Targeting Network Technology TTNT data link a Tactical Common Data Link TCDL a Satellite Communication SATCOM data link an ARC data link a VHF Digital Link VDL or other suitable data link can be used as desired for a particular application.

The surveillance system is configured to detect and locate neighboring fixed or moving targets and obstacles airports runways and taxiways. For example in one preferred embodiment the surveillance system is an Active Electronically Scanned Array AESA radar or a Passive Electronically Scanned Array PESA radar with phased array antennas mounted to provide spherical coverage around the aircraft. The phased array antennas are any suitable antennas for transmission or reception of radar signals and that are mountable on or within the aircraft.

In another embodiment the surveillance system is a milli meter wave MMW radar which can be the same MADL milli meter wave radar used for the communication system that enables the surveillance system to locate targets and obstacles within a distance of around 10 miles.

In another embodiment the surveillance system can be any other stand alone sensor that can be used as desired to provide input regarding the location of fixed or moving targets and obstacles airports runways and taxiways and which may advantageously already exist on the aircraft. Given by way of nonlimiting example the sensors can include without limitation a synthetic aperture radar a laser range finder a laser imager an electro optical EO imager a thermal infrared imager e.g. a short wave infrared imager and an acoustic sensor SONAR . It should be noted that while the phased array radar the milli meter wave radar the synthetic aperture radar the laser range finder the laser imager the electro optical imager the thermal infrared imager and the acoustic sensor SONAR can be used together as shown in one or more can be omitted from the surveillance system and or additional sensors can be utilized in alternative embodiments. Final selection of the sensors used for the surveillance system can be based upon the benefits performance costs integration feasibility applicable regulations and standards or as desired for a particular application.

The flight computer is configured to coordinate the inputs and outputs of the surveillance and guidance system . The flight computer can be any suitable flight computer known to the art and handles calculation recording and data transfer and can include suitable software for operation in accordance with disclosed embodiments of the present invention. Data transfer is centralized by a data bus which connects the navigation system the communication system the surveillance system the flight computer subsystems and a command and control system .

A memory device operably connected to or integrated with the flight computer stores for retrieval data such as information related to characteristics performance status flight plans and flight logs of the aircraft or other vehicles navigation and surveillance information information related to the location of airports airways runways taxiways and navigation aids Digital Terrain Elevation Database DTED or other target or obstacle database information information related to air traffic regulations the location of operational airspace restrictions or geopolitical boundaries as well as the computer software programs used by the flight computer . The data can be uploaded via the data link of the communication system or updated automatically by the computer programs running on the flight computer . The memory device can be volatile or nonvolatile memory read only or random access memory.

A Central Processing Unit CPU of the flight computer executes the computer programs resident in the memory device . A first component within the CPU is configured to track the position of targets obstacles airports runways taxiways and navigation aids by filtering and fusing navigation system data link surveillance sensor and memory device information. A second component within the CPU is configured to generate aircraft status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths to enable the command and control system to perform collision avoidance station keeping and interception of targets takeoff landing and taxiing of the aircraft in autonomous semi autonomous or manned aircraft control. The CPU is any suitable CPU configured to perform calculations and execute algorithms.

The command and control system is configured to display or otherwise provide an operator of the aircraft with aircraft status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths provided by the communication system and the flight computer and to process guidance commands or 4D flight paths to control the aircraft. The command and control system includes a Flight Management System FMS onboard the aircraft or at a remote location for interaction between the operator of the aircraft the aircraft and ATC. The FMS can include a display device to visualize the aircraft status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths. The display device can be any acceptable display device such as a liquid crystal display a plasma display a head up display or an instrument panel. The FMS can include an input device which enables an operator or ATC to issue or modify guidance commands or 4D flight paths. The input device can be incorporated with the display device such as in a Control Display Unit CDU or Multi Function Display MFD function as a touch screen or in conjunction with any acceptable input device such as a keypad a mouse a joystick or a microphone. An operator of the aircraft or ATC can be informed of guidance commands or 4D flight paths and the position of obstacles and targets on the display device and can issue guidance commands or 4D flight paths through the input device . If the FMS is at a remote location information between the flight computer and the command and control system is relayed through the communication system . Control of the aircraft can be performed by an operator or an autopilot during standard operation but the flight computer can autonomously take control of the aircraft if deemed necessary such as when the aircraft faces imminent collision threats.

The command and control system includes a Flight Control System FCS which processes the guidance commands or 4D flight paths issued automatically by the flight computer or manually from the FMS . The guidance commands or 4D flight paths are translated by the FCS into control signals to control aircraft actuators such as surface deflectors or throttle. According to an embodiment of the present invention the aircraft may already be equipped with an FCS such as a standalone autoflight or autopilot system which automatically translates heading airspeed groundspeed altitude vertical velocity or other high level guidance commands or latitude longitude altitude Estimated Time of Arrival ETA or other 4D flight paths into actuator control signals. Otherwise the flight computer which can include a dedicated processor to run the FCS routines provides the FCS functionality.

In further embodiments of the present invention the surveillance and guidance system can be adapted for use with ground vehicles or marine vehicles and can include the same or similar components described above with respect to aircraft with the database information related to the navigation of a ground or marine vehicle instead of an aircraft.

Referring to a surveillance routine performed according to an embodiment of the present invention is explained. The surveillance routine and other routines thereafter make reference to components of the surveillance and guidance system of . Routines can be executed simultaneously or in a desired order as desired for a particular application.

The surveillance routine starts at block . At block the navigation system senses a position velocity and intended trajectory of the aircraft. Position of the aircraft can be determined in terms of latitude longitude and altitude. Velocity can be determined in terms of heading horizontal velocity and vertical velocity. Intended trajectory can be determined in terms of latitude longitude altitude and Estimated Time of Arrival ETA of a set of waypoints i.e. 4D flight path . Output of the navigation system represents the navigation information which is transferred to the flight computer and stored in the memory device via the data bus .

At block the position velocity and intended trajectory of targets and obstacles are received via the communication system . The communication system is used to obtain position information of cooperative and non cooperative traffic. For instance if an Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast ADS B transceiver or receiver capable of receiving Traffic Information System TIS messages is included in the communication system position information of non cooperative air traffic sensed by a Secondary Surveillance Radar SSR can be received from Ground Based Transceivers GBT . Output of the communication system pertaining to targets and obstacles represents part of the surveillance information which is transferred to the flight computer and stored in the memory device via the data bus . Certain data links disclosed herein allow maneuvers between vehicles participating in a mission to be coordinated as the intended trajectory of participating vehicles is known to the flight computer . For example upon execution of a planned maneuver a participating vehicle may momentarily appear as a collision threat but because the incursion is part of a known flight plan the aircraft will not maneuver to avoid the participating vehicle.

At block the surveillance system detects and locates neighboring fixed or moving targets and obstacles airports runways taxiways and navigation aids. The location can be determined either in terms of latitude longitude and altitude or in terms of distance azimuth and elevation for sensors which reference frame is centered about the aircraft. Output of the surveillance system represents part of the surveillance information which is transferred to the flight computer and stored in the memory device via the data bus .

At block information related to the characteristics performance status flight plans and flight logs of the aircraft or other vehicles navigation and surveillance information database information pertaining to the position of targets and obstacles such as a Digital Terrain Elevation Database DTED information related to air traffic regulations the location of operational airspace restrictions or other types of operational boundaries e.g. geopolitical boundaries as well as the computer software programs used by the flight computer and modes of operation avoid obstacles station keep target intercept target are sent from the FMS and stored in the memory device via the data bus . If the FMS is at a remote location the communication system can be used to transfer the information.

At block the flight computer compares the navigation information with the surveillance information. The reference frames for the positions velocities flight paths and intended trajectories can be harmonized into a same reference frame. The status flight plans and flight logs of the aircraft as well as surveillance information regarding fixed or moving targets and obstacles airports runways taxiways and navigation aids are compared with the information stored in the memory device updated directly or by means of a filtering technique and saved on the memory device . Flight status navigation and surveillance information alerts and guidance commands or 4D flight paths can be transferred to the FMS .

It should be understood that in alternative embodiments the blocks of the routine shown in can be executed in any order including simultaneous execution as desired for particular applications.

In the illustrated example the relative distance between the aircraft and a threat triggers a corresponding guidance routine procedure. In addition the methods used for position tracking and uncertainty determinations due to sensor inaccuracies and signal interruptions to constitute the surveillance information can depend on the same thresholds or some other thresholds similar in concept. Functionally speaking the closer an obstacle the more precisely its position and related uncertainty may have to be determined therefore methods of increasing complexity can be used to make this determination.

If at the decision block it is determined that the aircraft is on target then at a decision block an on target procedure is performed. Given by way of a nonlimiting example if the aircraft intent is to navigate through a set of waypoints the on target procedure can assign the position of the next waypoint in the list as the new target. The on target procedure can also provide information to the operator of the aircraft prompt the operator for input or activate other automated tasks such as gathering reconnaissance images dropping a payload or triggering an explosive charge. If at the decision block it is determined that the aircraft is not on target then at decision block a determination is made whether or not the aircraft is below a collision emergency threshold with respect to threats.

In a preferred embodiment the collision emergency threshold defines the boundaries of the collision volume. The collision volume can be a cylindrical volume of airspace centered on the aircraft with a horizontal radius of 500 feet and a vertical height of 200 feet 100 feet . A threat is an obstacle determined to pose a collision risk e.g. an obstacle within the self separation threshold T . Different threats can have different thresholds.

If at decision block it is determined that the aircraft is below a collision emergency threshold T then at block a collision emergency procedure is performed maneuvering the aircraft clear from imminent collision threats. The collision emergency maneuver is defined as quick and significant trajectory adjustments optimized for and performed by the aircraft as a last resort right before a collision becomes unavoidable. Given by way of a nonlimiting example the collision emergency maneuver can be determined so as to maximize the distance at closest point of approach between the aircraft and threats. If at decision block it is determined that the aircraft is not below the collision emergency threshold T then at decision block a determination is made whether or not the aircraft is below a collision avoidance threshold Twith respect to threats.

If at decision block it is determined that the aircraft is below a collision avoidance threshold T then at block a collision avoidance procedure is performed maneuvering the aircraft away from close collision threats. The collision avoidance maneuver is defined as quick trajectory adjustments performed by the aircraft before a collision would occur to keep the aircraft at a safe clearance distance from threats. Given by way of a nonlimiting example the collision avoidance maneuver can be determined so as to avoid trajectories which would result in a distance at closest point of approach between the aircraft and threats below their respective self separation thresholds T. If at decision block it is determined that the aircraft is not below a collision avoidance threshold T then at decision block a determination is made whether or not the aircraft is below a self separation threshold Twith respect to threats.

If at decision block it is determined that the aircraft is below a self separation threshold T then at block a self separation procedure is performed maneuvering the aircraft away from potential collision threats. The self separation maneuver is defined as small trajectory adjustments performed by the aircraft well before a collision would occur to keep the aircraft at a reasonable self separation distance from threats. Given by way of a nonlimiting example the self separation maneuver can be determined so as to avoid trajectories which would result in a distance at closest point of approach between the aircraft and threats below their respective self separation thresholds T. If at decision block it is determined that the aircraft is not below a self separation threshold T then at decision block a determination is made whether or not the aircraft is above an intended trajectory threshold.

If at decision block it is determined that the aircraft is below the intended trajectory threshold then it is assumed that the aircraft is on the appropriate flight path and the guidance commands transmitted to the command and control system if any may or may not differ from the guidance command transmitted at the previous iteration. If the aircraft is below the intended trajectory threshold the guidance routine then returns to block for a new iteration using updated navigation or surveillance information. If at decision block it is determined that the aircraft is above the intended trajectory threshold then at block a trajectory adjustment procedure is performed maneuvering the aircraft back onto its intended trajectory. The intended trajectory threshold and related trajectory adjustments are intended to allow the aircraft to return back to its intended trajectory or an equivalent trajectory suitable for furtherance of the intended mission. Given by way of a nonlimiting example if the target is in station keeping mode the trajectory adjustment can be a station keeping adjustment determined so as to minimize the distance between the aircraft and the station keeping position relative to the target. If the target is in interception mode the trajectory adjustment can be determined so as to minimize the distance at closest point of approach between the aircraft and the target.

It is worth mentioning that due to threshold settings self separation procedures will preclude collision avoidance procedures in most situations as the self separation procedure is intended to maintain a reasonable self separation distance between the aircraft and threats. However situations may arise where a collision avoidance procedure will be performed without previous execution of a self separation procedure such as if surveillance information about threats is temporarily unavailable or erroneous.

The flight computer determines the high level guidance commands or 4D flight paths required for the aircraft to perform an appropriate maneuver such as those described above taking into account any RA provided by TCAS. The flight computer communicates the high level guidance commands or 4D flight paths to the command and control system so as to provide the guidance commands or 4D flight paths to an operator or ATC via the FMS or directly to the Flight Control System FCS to autonomously control the aircraft. The flight computer can directly control the actuators if an FCS is not available or as desired for a particular application. In the absence of obstacles the flight computer may or may not alter the trajectory of the aircraft which can fly according to the original guidance commands or 4D flight paths which can be provided autonomously or through manual intervention.

Algorithms determining trajectory adjustments are well known to the art and are customary in such systems as Station Keeping Equipment SKE or some autopilots. The adjustments are determined by dynamic equations dependent on the position velocity and intended trajectory of the aircraft and the target as well as some constraints which include maneuverability flight envelope and operational constraints such as maximum turn rate or maximum altitude. An example collision avoidance algorithm includes an Automated Air Collision Avoidance System Auto ACAS . An exemplary self separation algorithm is the Integrated Tactical Air Control System ITACS . A number of avoidance methods and their shortcomings are further discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 785 610. A detailed explanation of the logic behind avoidance algorithms is not necessary for an understanding of the present invention but an algorithm providing a guidance method suitable for the surveillance and guidance system which efficiently handles multiple simultaneous objectives is more desirable and set forth below.

A guidance method for determining the guidance commands or 4D flight paths can involve considering only one obstacle at a time but situations may arise where multiple obstacles would ideally be considered by the surveillance and guidance system at approximately the same time to properly guide the aircraft. Alternatively the guidance commands or 4D flight paths generated by each obstacle could be averaged to produce a resulting guidance command or 4D flight path but a numerical average may not represent an effective compromise as the effective maneuver may be detrimental to the aircraft.

A guidance method developed for unmanned maritime vehicles and described in the article The Interval Programming Model for Multi objective Decision Making AI Memo 2004 021 by Michael R. Benjamin Center of Ocean Engineering MIT Cambridge Mass. applies behavior based control to multi objective decision making. The first construct is to represent multi objective optimization problems with piecewise linearly defined objective functions in a finite decision space. In addition the problems associated with an exponential growth of state space are countered by dealing with separate sub situations independently. Sub situations are behaviors which can occur simultaneously but by producing independent objective functions for each behavior a modular approach which grows linearly in complexity with each behavior can advantageously be used. Behaviors described in the article include following or loitering over waypoints avoiding collisions shadowing or trailing behind a target and following International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea 1972 COLREGS . Each behavior may or may not produce according to thresholds an objective function to which a priority weighting is assigned. The priority weightings reflect the degree to which the decision is made as a trade off between behaviors based on the overall context or the mission requirements. A resulting objective function is computed as the weighted sum of each objective function and the resulting objective function is used to determine the preferred guidance commands to be executed by the aircraft.

In the reach target behavior is illustrated see also discussed below with the aircraft represented relative to a target which position must be reached. The position of the target is represented by a single point in space and can change dynamically such as in the case of a position on or around a moving vehicle. In a preferred embodiment the position of the target is defined in terms of latitude longitude and altitude. The output of the reach target behavior if activated is an objective function .

Objective functions are defined over a decision space limited by a set of explicit constraint constructs representing intervals of values. In and for clarity purposes the objective function is defined over a decision space in two dimensions as a function of possible heading and speed commands but an objective function can be defined as a function of other type of variables such as latitude longitude altitude airspeed turn rate vertical velocity thrust bank or roll angle. In one embodiment the output of behaviors are objective functions defined in terms of possible heading airspeed and vertical velocity commands so as to harmonize decision spaces and to obtain complete control over the position of the aircraft. In the possible heading and airspeed values are respectively represented as the angle and radius of the toroidal objective function section. Minimum and maximum airspeeds are represented respectively by the inner and outer boundaries of the toroidal section. The high level commands constraints can be fixed or dynamic set arbitrarily or given by some of the aircraft s avionics equipment according to the characteristics and performance capabilities of the aircraft the airspace class the flight plans mission requirements the size closure rate and angle of approach of threats or the target other factors which dynamically affect the aircraft s maneuverability or as desired for a specific application.

The objective function generated by the reach target behavior is constructed to privilege high level commands which maneuver the aircraft closer to the target and can be determined so as to assign higher arbitrary values i.e. values associated with an arbitrary function for guidance to high level commands that minimize the distance at closest point of approach between the aircraft and the target . For example in the representation of the objective function in lighter areas represent higher arbitrary values and darker areas represent lower arbitrary values. Higher arbitrary values and lighter areas in the illustrations for the objective function therefore generally represent more desirable trajectories under given conditions. The guidance command is given by the value for which the maximum of the objective function is obtained.

A situation where the aircraft intends to reach a target while avoiding a small threat represented by an aircraft in motion is shown in see also . In these examples a reach target behavior and an avoid small threat behavior are activated respectively by the target and the small threat and each behavior generates a separate objective function. The objective function generated by the avoid small threat behavior is constructed to privilege high level commands that maneuver the aircraft far enough from the threat and can be determined so as to assign higher arbitrary values to high level commands which maintain at least a minimum distance at the closest point of approach between the aircraft and the threat . The objective functions are combined in a weighted sum to produce a resulting objective function . In the darker area of the resulting objective function represents heading and airspeed values for which the aircraft may potentially collide or nearly collide with the threat .

The guidance method described in the present invention can process fixed and moving targets with the same reach target behavior and can process fixed and moving small threats with the same avoid small threat behavior. Additionally the reach target behavior and the avoid small threats behavior can use the same set of equations to generate their respective objective functions as the construction of the objective functions is based on calculating the distance at closest point of approach. Only one target at a time can be considered to produce the guidance commands because the aircraft cannot navigate in multiple directions for obvious reasons. Multiple small threats can be considered simultaneously by the guidance method however. Another significant advantage when dealing with multiple small threats is that each small threat can result in the computation of only one additional objective function therefore computational complexity increases at most linearly with respect to the number of small threat considered for avoidance purposes.

A situation involving multiple threats is shown in where the aircraft intends to reach a target while avoiding two threats represented by aircraft in motion. Each threat may activate the avoid small threat behavior and generate a unique objective function. This example illustrates how multiple objective functions generated by the avoid small threat behavior can be combined to produce the resulting objective function .

The avoid small threat behavior cannot be used to avoid large threats defined as threats large enough to be inaccurately represented by a single point in space for avoidance purposes. Large threats can include buildings terrain features severe weather and operational airspace restrictions such as air corridors airspace classes no fly zones or minimum and maximum operating altitude. Large threats activate a shortest path behavior which replaces the reach target behavior because the shortest path behavior finds the path of minimal distance between the aircraft and the target and generates an objective function dependent on the additional detour distance over the computed shortest path distance caused by maneuvering around large threats. The reach target behavior can systematically be replaced by the shortest path behavior but the reach target behavior is privileged in the absence of large threats in order to reduce computational complexity. The reach target behavior can also be used instead of the shortest path behavior if large threats are far enough from the aircraft the target or the direct path between the aircraft and the target . The shortest path behavior is explained below as a two dimensional problem for clarity purposes but can be used in three dimensions so that the aircraft can operate changes in altitude in order to follow the path of minimum distance to the target .

The example of shows a Digital Terrain Elevation Database DTED map containing a large threat represented by elevated terrain directly in the path between the aircraft and the target . The position of terrain features or other large threats can be determined from surveillance information or from database information pertaining to the position of large threats such as DTED.

A binary map is generated from the surveillance and database information to represent the horizontal position of large threats for a range of altitudes. In the binary map is generated for the altitude of the aircraft to illustrate the problem in two dimensions. Dark areas represent the horizontal position of large threats at that altitude. In this example the large threats are terrain features and airspace restrictions extracted from the DTED information and from an airspace restriction database respectively.

A shortest path function giving the shortest path distance between points in space and the target is computed and shown in where lighter areas indicate shorter path distances between points and the target . In this example the location of points is defined in terms of latitude and longitude but in a preferred embodiment the location of points is defined in terms of latitude longitude and altitude. If the target is fixed the shortest path function needs to be calculated only once. The number of points used to calculate the shortest path function can be limited by a maximum distance between the points and the aircraft by a maximum shortest path distance between the points and the target or by a maximum number of points. The shortest path behavior can also be improved by increasing travel time on points located on the edge of large threats in order to avoid issuing guidance commands that would cause the aircraft to travel too close to the edge of large threats .

Once the shortest path function is calculated in the example of the shortest path behavior generates an objective function defined in terms of latitude and longitude but in a preferred embodiment the objective function is defined in terms of latitude longitude and altitude. The objective function generated by the shortest path behavior is constructed to privilege latitude and longitude positions that set the aircraft closer to the target and away from large threats and can be determined so as to assign higher arbitrary values to latitude and longitude positions that minimize the detour distance over the shortest path distance caused by maneuvering around large threats. The number of points contained in the objective function can be limited by defining the objective function only over points reachable from a single direct linear trajectory or within a certain distance from the aircraft . The objective function can be translated from latitude and longitude positions over to a decision space defined in terms of heading and airspeed. In a preferred embodiment the objective function is first defined in terms of latitude longitude and altitude and then translated over to a decision space defined in terms of heading airspeed and vertical velocity. The translated decision space defined in terms of high level guidance commands is consistent with other behaviors and preferred as it allows the objective function generated by the shortest path behavior to be combined with objective functions from other behaviors.

Additional behaviors can be added to the guidance method such as a follow regulations behavior. The objective function generated by the follow regulations behavior is constructed to privilege high level commands that maneuver the aircraft in a manner consistent with Federal Aviation Regulations FAR found in 14 C.F.R. 91.3 and 91.113 or other air traffic regulations and procedures effective in the airspace in which the aircraft is operating. The objective function can be determined so as to assign higher arbitrary values to high level commands which according to the situation comply with air traffic regulations. The follow regulations behavior can itself be comprised of several behaviors depicting applicable situations which can depend on the encounter scenario e.g. approaching head on converging or overtaking the flight phase e.g. level flight ascent descent takeoff landing or taxiing the aircraft characteristics e.g. balloon glider airship rotorcraft or airplane or the aircraft status e.g. towing minimum fuel and emergency .

The guidance routine shown in determines which behavior to activate if the proposed guidance method is used. Performing the trajectory adjustments of block can trigger the reach target behavior or any other behavior used to maneuver the aircraft back onto its intended trajectory for the purpose of station keeping and interception of targets takeoff landing and taxiing of the aircraft. Similarly performing the self separation maneuver of block can trigger the follow regulations behavior the avoid small threats behavior the shortest path behavior or any other behavior used to maneuver the aircraft away from potential collision threats. Behaviors can be constantly active triggered according to thresholds or as desired for a specific application.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

