---

title: Method of treating cancer with DLL4 antagonist and chemotherapeutic agent
abstract: The invention provides methods for treating various types of cancer/tumor by administering the combination of Dll4 antagonists, in particular, Dll4 antibodies and fragments thereof that specifically bind human Dll4, and chemotherapeutic agents. Such combination therapies exhibit synergistic effects compared to the treatment with either agent alone. Thus, the methods of the invention are particularly beneficial for cancer patients who have low tolerance to the side effects caused by high dosages required for the treatment by either agent alone, by being able to reduce effective dosages. Pharmaceutical compositions and kits containing Dll4 antagonists and chemotherapeutic agents are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08518887&OS=08518887&RS=08518887
owner: Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
number: 08518887
owner_city: Tarrytown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100625
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C 119 e of U.S. provisional application Nos. 61 220 465 filed Jun. 25 2009 and 61 301 881 filed Feb. 5 2010 both of which are herein specifically incorporated by reference in their entirety.

An ASCII compliant text file of the sequence listing is filed concurrently with the present specification pursuant to 37 CFR 1.52 e and 37 CFR 1.821. The text file containing the sequence listing is named Dll4 Chemo SeqList was created on May 27 2010 and contains approximately 47.0 kilobytes. The contents of the text file are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to methods of treating cancers or tumors with a delta like ligand 4 Dll4 antagonist in particular human antibodies or fragments thereof that specifically bind human Dll4 in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic agents and pharmaceutical compositions comprising a Dll4 antagonist and a chemotherapeutic agent.

Dll4 is a member of the Delta family of Notch ligands which exhibits highly selective expression by vascular endothelium Shutter et al. 2000 14 1313 1318 . Dll4 is a ligand for Notch receptors including Notch 1 and Notch 4. Dll4 antagonists are useful for inhibiting tumor growth in various cancers. The nucleic acid and amino acid sequences for human Dll4 hDll4 are shown in SEQ ID NOS 1 and 2 respectively. Antibodies specific for human Dll4 and cancer tumor treatment using Dll4 antibodies are disclosed in international patent application publications WO 2007 143689 WO 2008 042236 and WO 2007 070671.

Chemotherapeutic agents are widely used for the treatment of cancer both alone and in combination with surgery and or radiation therapy. Combination therapies using a Dll4 antagonist and chemotherapeutic agents are disclosed in US patent application publications US 2008 0014196 and US 2008 0107648.

In a first aspect the invention features a method of treating cancer in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to the subject a Dll4 antagonist in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent wherein the cancer is treated. The subject to be treated by the method of the invention may include any mammalian species but preferably humans suffering from cancer.

The combination therapies of the present invention are particularly useful in Dll4 associated or Dll4 mediated condition or disease which is affected directly or indirectly by modulation of Dll4 activity. More specifically since Dll4 is now shown to be involved in blood vessel growth and development inhibiting or reducing Dll4 mediated blood vessel growth or development or maturation using Dll4 antagonists is an effective treatment for cancer tumor that requires sufficient blood supply for its growth and survival. Furthermore combining Dll4 antagonists with chemotherapeutic agents including growth inhibitory agents and other cytotoxic agents synergistically enhances their anti cancer anti tumor effects. Cancers tumors treatable by the methods of the present invention include but not by way of limitation various solid malignancies including ovarian cancer uterus cancer breast cancer lung cancer liver cancer colorectal cancer bladder cancer renal cancer prostate cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer bone cancer skin cancer including melanoma malignant soft tissue sarcoma including but not limited to Ewing s sarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma leiomyosarcoma adipocytic sarcoma synovial sarcoma malignant fibrous histiocytoma epithelioid hemangioendothelioma angiosarcoma fibrosarcoma and unclassified sarcomas leukemia including myeloma and the like.

In one embodiment the Dll4 antagonist is a Dll4 antibody or fragment thereof Dll4 Ab that specifically binds Dll4 with high affinity and blocks the binding of Dll4 to the Notch receptors and or neutralizes Dll4 activities. The antibody may be polyclonal monoclonal chimeric humanized or a wholly human antibody. Preferably the antibody is a fully human monoclonal antibody or monoclonal antibody fragment. The antibody fragment may be a single chain antibody an Fab or an Fab .

In another embodiment the Dll4 Ab binds an epitope within the N terminal domain S27 R172 or the DSL domain V173 C217 or the N terminal DSL domain S27 C217 of Dll4 SEQ ID NO 2 . The Dll4 Ab to be used in the methods of the invention is capable of binding human Dll4 with high affinity and its dissociation constant K is about 500 pM or less including about 300 pM or less and including about 200 pM or less as measured by surface plasmon resonance. For example the Dll4 Ab has a heavy chain variable region HCVR comprising three heavy chain CDRs H CDRs and a light chain variable region LCVR comprising three light chain CDRs L CDRs wherein the three heavy chain CDRs comprise CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 20 and the three light chain CDRs comprise CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 28. In another embodiment the heavy chain CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 of the Dll4 Ab comprise the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NOS 22 24 and 26 respectively. In another embodiment the light chain CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 of Dll4 Ab comprise the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NOS 30 32 and 34 respectively. In yet another embodiment the Dll4 Ab comprises heavy chain CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 sequences comprising SEQ ID NO 22 24 and 26 respectively and light chain CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 sequences comprising SEQ ID NO 30 32 and 34 respectively. In yet another embodiment the Dll4 Ab comprises a HCVR comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 20 or 116 or a LCVR comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 28 or 118. In yet another embodiment the Dll4 Ab comprises a HCVR LCVR combination of SEQ ID NO 20 28 REGN281 or 116 118 REGN421 .

In another embodiment the Dll4 Ab comprises a heavy chain CDR1 CDR2 CDR3 combination and a light chain CDR1 CDR2 CDR3 combination selected from SEQ ID NO 6 8 10 and SEQ ID NO 14 16 18 respectively SEQ ID NO 38 40 42 and SEQ ID NO 46 48 50 respectively SEQ ID NO 54 56 58 and SEQ ID NO 62 64 66 respectively SEQ ID NO 70 72 74 and SEQ ID NO 78 80 82 respectively SEQ ID NO 86 88 90 and SEQ ID NO 94 96 98 respectively and SEQ ID NO 102 104 106 and SEQ ID NO 110 112 114 respectively. In another embodiment the Dll4 Ab comprises a HCVR comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 36 52 68 84 or 100 or a LCVR comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 12 44 60 76 92 or 108. In yet another embodiment the Dll4 Ab comprises a HCVR LCVR combination selected from SEQ ID NO 4 12 REGN279 SEQ ID NO 36 44 REGN290 SEQ ID NO 52 60 REGN306 SEQ ID NO 68 76 REGN309 SEQ ID NO 84 92 REGN310 and SEQ ID NO 100 108 REGN289 .

The nucleotide sequences encoding the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NOS 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50 52 54 56 58 60 62 64 66 68 70 72 74 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 92 94 96 98 100 102 104 106 108 110 112 114 116 and 118 are shown as SEQ ID NOS 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 53 55 57 59 61 63 65 67 69 71 73 75 77 79 81 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 101 103 105 107 109 111 113 115 and 117 respectively.

In one embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is an anti mitotic agent such as docetaxel paclitaxel and the like a platinum based chemotherapeutic compound such as cisplatin carboplatin iproplatin oxaliplatin and the like or other conventional cytotoxic agent such as 5 fluorouracil 5 FU capecitabine irinotecan leucovorin gemcitabine inhibitors of receptor tyrosine kinases and or angiogenesis such as ErbB inhibitors RTK class III inhibitors VEGFR inhibitors and the like and the Dll4 antagonist is a Dll4 antibody or fragment thereof as described above.

In a second aspect the invention features a method of decreasing reducing or halting tumor growth in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to the subject a Dll4 antagonist in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent wherein tumor growth is decreased reduced or halted.

In a third aspect the invention features a method of reducing the amount of a chemotherapeutic agent or a Dll4 antagonist necessary to achieve a desired therapeutic effect compared to the administration of each agent alone comprising administering the chemotherapeutic agent with a Dll4 antagonist. In one embodiment the amount of a chemotherapeutic agent to achieve a desired therapeutic effect such as for example halting or reducing tumor growth is at least 10 less at least 20 less at least 30 less at least 40 less or at least 50 less in the presence of co administered Dll4 antagonist or vice versa. In general it is desirable that the amount of a chemotherapeutic agent or the Dll4 antagonist can be reduced by about 30 to about 50 . Thus the methods of the invention are particularly beneficial for cancer patients who have low tolerance to the side effects caused by high dosages required for the treatment by either agent alone by being able to reduce effective dosages.

In a fourth aspect the invention features a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Dll4 antagonist a chemotherapeutic agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In one embodiment the Dll4 antagonist is a Dll4 Ab or fragment thereof that specifically binds to Dll4 with high affinity and neutralizes Dll4 activities and the chemotherapeutic agent is any of those described herein.

In a fifth aspect the invention features a kit comprising a container comprising the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention and a package insert with an instruction for use. In one embodiment a kit may comprise a container comprising therein an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds hDll4 one or more additional containers comprising therein at least one chemotherapeutic agent selected from any of those described herein and a package insert with an instruction for use.

Before the present methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular methods and experimental conditions described as such methods and conditions may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting since the scope of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.

As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a method includes one or more methods and or steps of the type described herein and or which will become apparent to those persons skilled in the art upon reading this disclosure.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention the preferred methods and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

 Delta like ligand 4 Dll4 hDll4 are used interchangeably to refer to the protein encoded by the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 and the protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 2.

Dll4 antagonists include antibodies to Dll4 and fragments thereof capable of blocking the binding of Dll4 to a Notch receptor such as Notch1 and Notch4 fusion proteins comprising the extracellular domain of Dll4 fused to a multimerizing component or fragments thereof see for example US patent application publication nos. 2006 0134121 and 2008 0107648 and peptides and peptibodies see for example US patent application publication no. 2003 0229023 .

Unless specifically indicated otherwise the term antibody as used herein shall be understood to encompass antibody molecules comprising two immunoglobulin heavy chains and two immunoglobulin light chains La full antibody molecules as well as antigen binding fragments thereof. The terms antigen binding portion of an antibody antigen binding fragment of an antibody and the like as used herein include any naturally occurring enzymatically obtainable synthetic or genetically engineered polypeptide or glycoprotein that specifically binds an antigen to form a complex. Antigen binding fragments of an antibody may be derived e.g. from full antibody molecules using any suitable standard techniques such as proteolytic digestion or recombinant genetic engineering techniques involving the manipulation and expression of DNA encoding antibody variable and optionally constant domains. Such DNA is known and or is readily available from e.g. commercial sources DNA libraries including e.g. phage antibody libraries or can be synthesized. The DNA may be sequenced and manipulated chemically or by using molecular biology techniques for example to arrange one or more variable and or constant domains into a suitable configuration or to introduce codons create cysteine residues modify add or delete amino acids etc.

Non limiting examples of antigen binding fragments include i Fab fragments ii F ab fragments iii Fd fragments iv Fv fragments v single chain Fv scFv molecules vi dAb fragments and vii minimal recognition units consisting of the amino acid residues that mimic the hypervariable region of an antibody e.g. an isolated complementarity determining region CDR . Other engineered molecules such as diabodies triabodies tetrabodies and minibodies are also encompassed within the expression antigen binding fragment as used herein.

An antigen binding fragment of an antibody will typically comprise at least one variable domain. The variable domain may be of any size or amino acid composition and will generally comprise at least one CDR which is adjacent to or in frame with one or more framework sequences. In antigen binding fragments having a Vdomain associated with a Vdomain the Vand Vdomains may be situated relative to one another in any suitable arrangement. For example the variable region may be dimeric and contain V V V Vor V Vdimers. Alternatively the antigen binding fragment of an antibody may contain a monomeric Vor Vdomain.

In certain embodiments an antigen binding fragment of an antibody may contain at least one variable domain covalently linked to at least one constant domain. Non limiting exemplary configurations of variable and constant domains that may be found within an antigen binding fragment of an antibody of the present invention include i V C1 ii V C2 iii V C3 iv V C1 C2 v V C1 C2 C3 vi V C2 C3 vii V C viii V C1 ix V C2 x V C3 xi V C1 C2 xii V C1 C2 C3 xiii V C2 C3 and xiv V C. In any configuration of variable and constant domains including any of the exemplary configurations listed above the variable and constant domains may be either directly linked to one another or may be linked by a full or partial hinge or linker region. A hinge region may consist of at least 2 e.g. 5 10 15 20 40 60 or more amino acids which result in a flexible or semi flexible linkage between adjacent variable and or constant domains in a single polypeptide molecule. Moreover an antigen binding fragment of an antibody of the present invention may comprise a homo dimer or hetero dimer or other multimer of any of the variable and constant domain configurations listed above in non covalent association with one another and or with one or more monomeric Vor Vdomain e.g. by disulfide bond s .

As with full antibody molecules antigen binding fragments may be monospecific or multispecific e.g. bispecific . A multispecific antigen binding fragment of an antibody will typically comprise at least two different variable domains wherein each variable domain is capable of specifically binding to a separate antigen or to a different epitope on the same antigen. Any multispecific antibody format including the exemplary bispecific antibody formats disclosed herein may be adapted for use in the context of an antigen binding fragment of an antibody of the present invention using routine techniques available in the art.

The term human antibody as used herein is intended to include antibodies having variable and constant regions derived from human germline immunoglobulin sequences. The human mAbs of the invention may include amino acid residues not encoded by human germline immunoglobulin sequences e.g. mutations introduced by random or site specific mutagenesis in vitro or by somatic mutation in vivo for example in the CDRs and in particular CDR3. However the term human antibody as used herein is not intended to include mAbs in which CDR sequences derived from the germline of another mammalian species e.g. mouse have been grafted onto human FR sequences.

The fully human anti Dll4 antibodies disclosed herein may comprise one or more amino acid substitutions insertions and or deletions in the framework and or CDR regions of the heavy and light chain variable domains as compared to the corresponding germline sequences. Such mutations can be readily ascertained by comparing the amino acid sequences disclosed herein to germline sequences available from for example public antibody sequence databases. The present invention includes antibodies and antigen binding fragments thereof which are derived from any of the amino acid sequences disclosed herein wherein one or more amino acids within one or more framework and or CDR regions are back mutated to the corresponding germline residue s or to a conservative amino acid substitution natural or non natural of the corresponding germline residue s such sequence changes are referred to herein as germline back mutations . A person of ordinary skill in the art starting with the heavy and light chain variable region sequences disclosed herein can easily produce numerous antibodies and antigen binding fragments which comprise one or more individual germline back mutations or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments all of the framework and or CDR residues within the Vand or Vdomains are mutated back to the germline sequence. In other embodiments only certain residues are mutated back to the germline sequence e.g. only the mutated residues found within the first 8 amino acids of FR1 or within the last 8 amino acids of FR4 or only the mutated residues found within CDR1 CDR2 or CDR3. Furthermore the antibodies of the present invention may contain any combination of two or more germline back mutations within the framework and or CDR regions i.e. wherein certain individual residues are mutated back to the germline sequence while certain other residues that differ from the germline sequence are maintained. Once obtained antibodies and antigen binding fragments that contain one or more germline back mutations can be easily tested for one or more desired property such as improved binding specificity increased binding affinity improved or enhanced antagonistic or agonistic biological properties as the case may be reduced immunogenicity etc. Antibodies and antigen binding fragments obtained in this general manner are encompassed within the present invention.

The present invention also includes anti Dll4 antibodies comprising variants of any of the HCVR LCVR and or CDR amino acid sequences disclosed herein having one or more conservative substitutions. For example the present invention includes anti Dll4 antibodies having HCVR LCVR and or CDR amino acid sequences with e.g. 10 or fewer 8 or fewer 6 or fewer 4 or fewer 2 or 1 conservative amino acid substitution s relative to any of the HCVR LCVR and or CDR amino acid sequences disclosed herein. In one embodiment a HCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 116 with 10 or fewer conservative amino acid substitutions therein. In another embodiment a HCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 116 with 8 or fewer conservative amino acid substitutions therein. In another embodiment a HCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 116 with 6 or fewer conservative amino acid substitutions therein. In another embodiment a HCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 116 with 4 or fewer conservative amino acid substitutions therein. In yet another embodiment a HCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 116 with 2 or 1 conservative amino acid substitution s therein. In one embodiment a LCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 118 with 10 or fewer conservative amino acid substitutions therein. In another embodiment a LCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 118 with 8 or fewer conservative amino acid substitutions therein. In another embodiment a LCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 118 with 6 or fewer conservative amino acid substitutions therein. In another embodiment a LCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 118 with 4 or fewer conservative amino acid substitutions therein. In yet another embodiment a LCVR comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 118 with 2 or 1 conservative amino acid substitution s therein.

A neutralizing or blocking antibody is intended to refer to an antibody whose binding to Dll4 results in inhibition of the biological activity of Dll4. This inhibition of the biological activity of Dll4 can be assessed by measuring one or more indicators of Dll4 biological activity. These indicators of Dll4 biological activity can be assessed by one or more of several standard in vitro or in vivo assays known in the art. For instance the ability of an antibody to neutralize Dll4 activity is assessed by inhibition of Dll4 binding to a Notch receptor.

The term specifically binds or the like means that an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof forms a complex with an antigen that is relatively stable under physiologic conditions. Specific binding can be characterized by an equilibrium dissociation constant of at least about 1 10M or less e.g. a smaller Kdenotes a tighter binding . Methods for determining whether two molecules specifically bind are well known in the art and include for example equilibrium dialysis surface plasmon resonance and the like. An isolated antibody that specifically binds hDll4 may however exhibit cross reactivity to other antigens such as Dll4 molecules from other species. Moreover multi specific antibodies e.g. bispecifics that bind to hDll4 and one or more additional antigens are nonetheless considered antibodies that specifically bind hDll4 as used herein.

The term K as used herein is intended to refer to the dissociation constant of a particular antibody antigen interaction.

The term high affinity antibody refers to those antibodies that bind Dll4 with a Kof less than about 500 pM less than about 400 pM less than about 300 pM or less than about 200 pM as measured by surface plasmon resonance e.g. BIACORE or solution affinity ELISA using for example monomeric Dll4 or a Kof less than about 100 pM less than about 50 pM or less than about 20 pM as measured by surface plasmon resonance using dimeric Dll4.

The term surface plasmon resonance as used herein refers to an optical phenomenon that allows for the analysis of real time biospecific interactions by detection of alterations in protein concentrations within a biosensor matrix for example using the BIACORE system Pharmacia Biosensor AB Uppsala Sweden and Piscataway N.J. .

The term epitope is a region of an antigen that is bound by an antibody. Epitopes may be defined as structural or functional. Functional epitopes are generally a subset of the structural epitopes and have those residues that directly contribute to the affinity of the interaction. Epitopes may also be conformational that is composed of non linear amino acids. In certain embodiments epitopes may include determinants that are chemically active surface groupings of molecules such as amino acids sugar side chains phosphoryl groups or sulfonyl groups and in certain embodiments may have specific three dimensional structural characteristics and or specific charge characteristics.

Chemotherapeutic agents are chemical compounds useful in the treatment of cancer and include growth inhibitory agents or other cytotoxic agents. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents that can be used in the present methods include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphaoramide and trimethylolomelamine nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine ranimustine antibiotics such as aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin calicheamicin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycins dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine doxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogues such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogues such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidamine mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidamol nitracrine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK razoxane sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa members of taxoid or taxane family such as paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. docetaxel TAXOTERE Aventis Antony France and analogues thereof chlorambucil gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogues such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine platinum etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitomycin C mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine navelbine novantrone teniposide daunomycin aminopterin xeloda ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoic acid esperamicins capecitabine inhibitors of receptor tyrosine kinases and or angiogenesis including sorafenib NEXAVAR by Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corp. sunitinib SUTENT by Pfizer pazopanib VOTRIENT by GlaxoSmithKline toceranib PALLADIA by Pfizer vandetanib ZACTIMA by AstraZeneca cediranib RECENTIN by AstraZeneca regorafenib BAY 73 4506 by Bayer axitinib AG013736 by Pfizer lestaurtinib CEP 701 by Cephalon erlotinib TARCEVA by Genentech gefitinib IRESSA by AstraZeneca BIBW 2992 TOVOK by Boehringer Ingelheim lapatinib TYKERB by GlaxoSmithKline neratinib HKI 272 by Wyeth Pfizer and the like and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above. Also included in this definition are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens including for example tamoxifen raloxifene aromatase inhibiting 4 5 imidazoles 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY 117018 onapristone and toremifene FARESTON and anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above. Other conventional cytotoxic chemical compounds as those disclosed in Wiemann et al. 1985 in Calabresi et aL eds. Chapter 10 McMillan Publishing are also applicable to the methods of the present invention.

The term growth inhibitory agents refers to a compound or composition which inhibits growth of a cell especially a cancer cell either in vitro or in vivo. Examples of growth inhibitory agents include agents that block cell cycle progression at a place other than S phase such as agents that induce G1 arrest and M phase arrest. Classical M phase blockers include the vincas vincristine and vinblastine taxane family members including but not limited to paclitaxel TAXOL docetaxel TAXOTERE and analogues thereof e.g. XRP9881 and XRP6258 see Ojima et al. 4 737 2003 and topoisomerase inhibitors such as irinotecan topotecan camptothecin lamellarin D doxorubicin epirubicin daunorubicin etoposide and bleomycin. Those agents that arrest G1 also spill over into S phase arrest for example DNA alkylating agents such as tamoxifen prednisone dacarbazine mechlorethamine cisplatin methotrexate 5 FU and ara C.

The present invention is based on the findings that co administration of a Dll4 antagonist for example a Dll4 antibody or fragment thereof that specifically binds Dll4 and blocks Dll4 activities with a chemotherapeutic agent for example cisplatin or docetaxel results in greater inhibition of tumor growth than either single agent. For a description of fully human Dll4 Ab including recombinant human Dll4 Ab see international patent application publication no. WO 2008 076379.

Methods for preparing antibodies are known to the art. See for example Kohler Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 497 Harlow Lane 1988 Antibodies a Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Lab. Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. . Antibodies that are isolated from organisms other than humans such as mice rats rabbits cows can be made more human like through chimerization or humanization.

 Humanized or chimeric forms of non human e.g. murine antibodies are immunoglobulins immunoglobulin chains or fragments thereof such as Fv Fab Fab F ab or other antigen binding subsequences of antibodies that contain minimal sequences required for antigen binding derived from non human immunoglobulin. They have the same or similar binding specificity and affinity as a mouse or other nonhuman antibody that provides the starting material for construction of a chimeric or humanized antibody. Chimeric antibodies are antibodies whose light and heavy chain genes have been constructed typically by genetic engineering from immunoglobulin gene segments belonging to different species. For example the variable V segments of the genes from a mouse monoclonal antibody may be joined to human constant C segments such as IgG1 and IgG4. A typical chimeric antibody is thus a hybrid protein consisting of the V or antigen binding domain from a mouse antibody and the C or effector domain from a human antibody. Humanized antibodies have variable region framework residues substantially from a human antibody termed an acceptor antibody and complementarity determining regions CDR regions substantially from a mouse antibody referred to as the donor immunoglobulin . See Queen et al. 86 10029 10033 1989 and international patent application publication no. WO 90 07861 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 693 762 5 693 761 5 585 089 5 530 101 and 5 225 539. The constant region s if present are also substantially or entirely from a human immunoglobulin. The human variable domains are usually chosen from human antibodies whose framework sequences exhibit a high degree of sequence identity with the murine variable region domains from which the CDRs were derived. The heavy and light chain variable region framework residues can be derived from the same or different human antibody sequences. The human antibody sequences can be the sequences of naturally occurring human antibodies or can be consensus sequences of several human antibodies. See international patent application publication no. WO 92 22653. Certain amino acids from the human variable region framework residues are selected for substitution based on their possible influence on CDR conformation and or binding to antigen. Investigation of such possible influences may be performed by modeling examination of the characteristics of the amino acids at particular locations or empirical observation of the effects of substitution or mutagenesis of particular amino acids. For example when an amino acid differs between a murine variable region framework residue and a selected human variable region framework residue the human framework amino acid should usually be substituted by the equivalent framework amino acid from the mouse antibody when it is reasonably expected that the amino acid 1 noncovalently binds antigen directly 2 is adjacent to a CDR region 3 otherwise interacts with a CDR region e.g. is within about 6 of a CDR region or 4 participates in the V Vinterface. Other candidates for substitution are acceptor human framework amino acids that are unusual for a human immunoglobulin at that position. These amino acids can be substituted with amino acids from the equivalent position of the mouse donor antibody or from the equivalent positions of more typical human immunoglobulins. Other candidates for substitution are acceptor human framework amino acids that are unusual for a human immunoglobulin at that position. The variable region frameworks of humanized immunoglobulins usually show at least 85 sequence identity to a human variable region framework sequence or consensus of such sequences.

Methods for generating human antibodies include for example VELOCIMMUNE Regeneron Pharmaceuticals XENOMOUSE technology Abgenix the minilocus approach and phage display. The VELOCIMMUNE technology U.S. Pat. No. 6 596 541 encompasses a method of generating a high specificity fully human antibody to a select antigen. This technology involves generation of a transgenic mouse having a genome comprising human heavy and light chain variable regions operably linked to endogenous mouse constant region loci such that the mouse produces an antibody comprising a human variable region and a mouse constant region in response to antigenic stimulation. The DNA encoding the variable regions of the heavy and light chains of the antibody are isolated and operably linked to DNA encoding the human heavy and light chain constant regions. The DNA is then expressed in a cell capable of expressing the fully human antibody. In one embodiment the cell is a CHO cell.

The XENOMOUSE technology Green et al. 1994 7 13 21 generates a mouse having both human variable and constant regions from both the heavy chain and kappa light chain loci. In an alternative approach others have utilized a minilocus approach in which an exogenous Ig locus is mimicked through inclusion of individual genes from the Ig locus see for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 545 807 . The DNA encoding the variable regions can be isolated with or without being operably linked to the DNA encoding the human heavy and light chain constant region.

Alternatively phage display or related display technologies can be used to identify antibodies antibody fragments such as variable domains and heteromeric Fab fragments that specifically bind to Dll4. see for example US patent application publication no. 2003 0229023 .

Screening and selection of preferred immunoglobulins antibodies can be conducted by a variety of methods known to the art. Initial screening for the presence of monoclonal antibodies specific to Dll4 may be conducted through the use of ELISA based methods or phage display for example. A secondary screen is preferably conducted to identify and select a desired monoclonal antibody. Secondary screening may be conducted with any suitable method known to the art. One preferred method termed Biosensor Modification Assisted Profiling BiaMAP is described in U.S. patent application publication no. 2004 101920. BiaMAP allows rapid identification of hybridoma clones producing monoclonal antibodies with desired characteristics. More specifically monoclonal antibodies are sorted into distinct epitope related groups based on evaluation of antibody antigen interactions. Alternatively ELISA based bead based or BIACORE based competition assays can be used to identify binding pairs that bind different epitopes of Dll4 and thus are likely to cooperate to bind the ligand with high affinity.

The present invention provides methods of treatment comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Dll4 antagonist such as a Dll4 Ab and a chemotherapeutic agent such as anti mitotic agents for example docetaxel paclitaxel and the like taxanes platinum based chemotherapeutic compounds such as cisplatin carboplatin iproplatin oxaliplatin and the like pyrimidine analogue such as 5 Fu capecitabine XELODA Roche and the like topoisomerase inhibitors such as irinotecan topotecan camptothecin lamellarin D and the like and or adjuvants such as leucovorin folinic acid and the like for details see the definition section above .

The Dll4 antagonist and the chemotherapeutic agent can be co administered together or separately. Where separate dosage formulations are used the Dll4 antagonist and the chemotherapeutic agent can be administered concurrently or separately at staggered times i.e. sequentially.

Various delivery systems are known and can be used to administer the pharmaceutical composition of the invention e.g. encapsulation in liposomes microparticles microcapsules recombinant cells capable of expressing the mutant viruses receptor mediated endocytosis see e.g. Wu and Wu 1987 262 4429 4432 . Methods of introduction include but are not limited to intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intravenous subcutaneous intranasal intraocular epidural and oral routes. The composition may be administered by any route for example by infusion or bolus injection by absorption through epithelial or mucocutaneous linings e.g. oral mucosa rectal and intestinal mucosa etc. and may be administered together with other biologically active agents. Administration can be systemic or local. Administration can be acute or chronic e.g. daily weekly monthly etc. or in combination with other agents. Pulmonary administration can also be employed for example by use of an inhaler or nebulizer and formulation with an aerosolizing agent.

With respect to subcutaneous delivery a pen delivery device readily has applications in delivering a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. Such a pen delivery device can be reusable or disposable. A reusable pen delivery device generally utilizes a replaceable cartridge that contains a pharmaceutical composition. Once all of the pharmaceutical composition within the cartridge has been administered and the cartridge is empty the empty cartridge can readily be discarded and replaced with a new cartridge that contains the pharmaceutical composition. The pen delivery device can then be reused. In a disposable pen delivery device there is no replaceable cartridge. Rather the disposable pen delivery device comes prefilled with the pharmaceutical composition held in a reservoir within the device. Once the reservoir is emptied of the pharmaceutical composition the entire device is discarded.

Numerous reusable pen delivery devices have applications in the subcutaneous delivery of a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. Examples include but certainly are not limited to AUTOPEN Owen Mumford Inc. Woodstock UK DISETRONIC pen Disetronic Medical Systems Burghdorf Switzerland HUMALOG MIX 75 25 pen HUMALOG pen HUMALIN 70 30 pen Eli Lilly and Co. Indianapolis Ind. NOVOPEN I II and III Novo Nordisk Copenhagen Denmark NOVOPEN JUNIOR Novo Nordisk Copenhagen Denmark BD pen Becton Dickinson Franklin Lakes N.J. OPTIPEN OPTIPEN PRO OPTIPEN STARLET and OPTICLIK sanofi aventis Frankfurt Germany to name only a few. Examples of disposable pen delivery devices having applications in subcutaneous delivery of a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention include but certainly are not limited to the SOLOSTAR pen sanofi aventis the FLEXPEN Novo Nordisk and the KWIKPEN Eli Lilly .

In another embodiment the active agent can be delivered in a vesicle or a liposome see Langer 1990 249 1527 1533 . In yet another embodiment the active agent can be delivered in a controlled release system. In one embodiment a pump may be used see Langer 1990 supra . In another embodiment polymeric materials can be used see Howard et aL 1989 71 105 . In another embodiment where the active agent of the invention is a nucleic acid encoding a protein the nucleic acid can be administered in vivo to promote expression of its encoded protein by constructing it as part of an appropriate nucleic acid expression vector and administering it so that it becomes intracellular e.g. by use of a retroviral vector see for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 286 or by direct injection or by use of microparticle bombardment e.g. a gene gun Biolistic Dupont or coating with lipids or cell surface receptors or transfecting agents or by administering it in linkage to a homeobox like peptide which is known to enter the nucleus see e.g. Joliot et al. 1991 . USA 88 1864 1868 etc. Alternatively a nucleic acid can be introduced intracellularly and incorporated within host cell DNA for expression by homologous recombination.

In a specific embodiment it may be desirable to administer the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention locally to the area in need of treatment this may be achieved for example and not by way of limitation by local infusion during surgery topical application e.g. by injection by means of a catheter or by means of an implant said implant being of a porous non porous or gelatinous material including membranes such as sialastic membranes fibers or commercial skin substitutes.

The amount of the active agent of the invention which will be effective in the treatment of cancer tumor can be determined by standard clinical techniques based on the present description. In addition in vitro assays may optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges. The precise dose to be employed in the formulation will also depend on the route of administration and the seriousness of the condition and should be decided according to the judgment of the practitioner and each subject s circumstances. However suitable dosage ranges for intravenous administration are generally about 0.2 to 30 mg of active compound per kilogram body weight. Suitable dosage ranges for intranasal administration are generally about 0.01 pg kg body weight to 1 mg kg body weight. Effective doses may be extrapolated from dose response curves derived from in vitro or animal model test systems.

For systemic administration a therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from in vitro assays. For example a dose can be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating concentration range that includes the ICas determined in cell culture. Such information can be used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Initial dosages can also be estimated from in vivo data e.g. animal models using techniques that are well known in the art. One having ordinary skill in the art could readily optimize administration to humans based on animal data.

The dose may vary depending upon the age and the size e.g. body weight or body surface area of a subject to be administered target disease conditions route of administration and the like. For systemic administration of Dll4 antagonists in particular for Dll4 antibodies typical dosage ranges for intravenous administration are at a daily dose of about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg of body weight about 0.1 to about 50 mg kg or about 0.2 to about 10 mg kg. For subcutaneous administration the antibodies can be administered at about 10 mg to about 500 mg about 20 mg to about 400 mg about 30 mg to about 300 mg or about 50 mg to about 200 mg at the antibody concentration of at least about 25 mg ml about 50 mg ml about 75 mg ml about 100 mg ml about 125 mg ml about 150 mg ml about 175 mg ml about 200 mg ml or about 250 mg ml at least 1 to 5 times per day 1 to 5 times per week or 1 to 5 times per month. Alternatively the antibodies can be initially administered via intravenous injection followed by sequential subcutaneous administration.

In general chemotherapeutic agents are used intravenously or orally at a dose range of between 50 mg mand 5000 mg mper week but the dosage ranges vary depending on various factors including the subject being treated the subject s weight and age the severity of the affliction the manner of administration the type of chemotherapeutic agent being used the judgment of the prescribing physician and the like. The therapy may be repeated intermittently while symptoms are detectable or even when they are not detectable. The duration of the treatment may also vary depending on the severity of the conditions treated as well as tolerance levels of subjects for possible adverse effects if any and may last as long as necessary or so long as the benefit outweighs any adverse effect.

The dosage of each agent may be further adjusted in the combination therapy where the amount of each agent necessary to achieve a desired therapeutic effect is reduced i.e. exhibiting a synergistic effect compared to the administration of either agent alone see Examples 1 and 2 infra .

Chemotherapeutic agents that can be used in the combination therapies of the invention also include those which are employed in well known chemotherapeutic regimens. For example FOLFOX is a chemotherapeutic regimen for treating colorectal cancer CRC and is a combination of 5 FU folinic acid and oxaliplatin. FOLFIRI is another chemotherapeutic regimen for CRC and is a combination of 5 FU folinic acid and irinotecan. XELOX is a second line chemotherapeutic regimen for CRC and is a combination of capecitabine and oxaliplatin.

Further the therapy with the combination of a chemotherapeutic agent and a Dll4 antagonist may be provided alone or in combination with additional drugs such as other anti angiogenic agents e.g. VEGF antagonists including anti VEGF antibodies e.g. AVASTIN by Genentech VEGF binding fusion proteins e.g. aflibercept by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and the like and other therapeutic agents such as analgesics anti inflammatory agents including non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDS such as Cox 2 inhibitors and the like so as to ameliorate and or reduce the symptoms accompanying the underlying cancer tumor.

Metronomic chemotherapy is emerging as an improved way of administering chemotherapy. Traditional chemotherapy has been administered in single doses or short courses of therapy as the highest dose possible without causing life threatening levels of toxicity e.g. at the maximum tolerated dose MTD . MTD therapy requires prolonged breaks of 2 3 weeks between successive cycles of therapy. Despite the number of such chemotherapeutics and large number of clinical trials undertaken to test them progress has been modest in terms of curing or significantly prolonging the lives of patients with cancer Kerbel et al. 2004 4 423 436 .

Metronomic chemotherapy refers to the frequent even daily administration of chemotherapeutics at doses significantly below the MTD with no prolonged drug free breaks. In addition to reduced acute toxicity the efficacy of metronomic chemotherapy may increase when administered in combination with specific anti angiogenic drugs such as inhibitors of VEGF Kerbel et al. 2004 supra .

Accordingly the present invention features a metronomic chemotherapy for treating cancer in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to the subject a Dll4 antagonist in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent wherein the cancer is treated. In a specific embodiment the Dll4 antagonist and a chemotherapeutic agent may be administered together or sequentially for a relatively short period of time for example 1 12 weeks followed by metronomic administration of the chemotherapeutic agent over a prolonged period of time for example 6 24 months.

The present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a Dll4 antagonist a chemotherapeutic agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The term pharmaceutically acceptable means approved by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals and more particularly in humans. The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant excipient or vehicle with which the therapeutic is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be sterile liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. Suitable pharmaceutical excipients include starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. The composition if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents. These compositions can take the form of solutions suspensions emulsion tablets pills capsules powders sustained release formulations and the like. The composition can be formulated as a suppository with traditional binders and carriers such as triglycerides. Oral formulation can include standard carriers such as pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine cellulose magnesium carbonate etc. Examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences by E. W. Martin.

In a preferred embodiment the composition is formulated in accordance with routine procedures as a pharmaceutical composition adapted for intravenous administration to human beings. Where necessary the composition may also include a solubilizing agent and a local anesthetic such as lidocaine to ease pain at the site of the injection. Where the composition is to be administered by infusion it can be dispensed with an infusion bottle containing sterile pharmaceutical grade water or saline. Where the composition is administered by injection an ampoule of sterile water for injection or saline can be provided so that the ingredients may be mixed prior to administration.

The active agents of the invention can be formulated as neutral or salt forms. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those formed with free amino groups such as those derived from hydrochloric phosphoric acetic oxalic tartaric acids etc. and those formed with free carboxyl groups such as those derived from sodium potassium ammonium calcium ferric hydroxides isopropylamine triethylamine 2 ethylamino ethanol histidine procaine etc.

A composition useful in practicing the methods of the invention may be a liquid comprising an agent of the invention in solution in suspension or both. The term solution suspension refers to a liquid composition where a first portion of the active agent is present in solution and a second portion of the active agent is present in particulate form in suspension in a liquid matrix. The liquid composition may be aqueous and also includes a gel and an ointment forms.

An aqueous suspension or solution suspension useful for practicing the methods of the invention may contain one or more polymers as suspending agents. Useful polymers include water soluble polymers such as cross linked carboxyl containing polymers. An aqueous suspension or solution suspension of the present invention is preferably viscous or muco adhesive or even more preferably both viscous and mucoadhesive.

The invention further provides an article of manufacturing or kit comprising a packaging material container and a pharmaceutical agent contained within the container wherein the pharmaceutical agent comprises at least one Dll4 antagonist such as Dll4 antibody and at least one chemotherapeutic agent and wherein the packaging material comprises a label or package insert which indicates that the Dll4 antagonist and chemotherapeutic agent can be used for treating cancer or reducing or halting tumor growth. In one embodiment the Dll4 antagonist and the chemotherapeutic agent may be contained in separate containers thus the invention provides a kit comprising a container comprising therein an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds hDll4 and one or more additional containers comprising therein at least one chemotherapeutic agent.

The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the methods and compositions of the invention and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used e.g. amounts temperature etc. but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise parts are parts by weight temperature is in degrees Centigrade and pressure is at or near atmospheric. Figure error bars mean SEM .

The effect of anti Dll4 antibody REGN421 in combination with cisplatin platinol cis diamminedichloroplatinum on tumor growth was evaluated on tumors implanted in Severe Combined Immunodeficiency SCID mice expressing a humanized Dll4 protein humanized Dll4 SCID mice . The humanized Dll4 SCID mouse was made by replacing the entire extracellular domain of the mouse Dll4 gene with the corresponding extracellular region of the human Dll4 gene 7 kb in embryonic stem ES cells. Homozygous hDll4 mice were generated and bred into SCID background.

Each mouse was implanted subcutaneously sc with 1 10human VM Cub1 tumor cells bladder carcinoma cells plus MATRIGEL BD Biosciences 354234 . After the tumors were established in the mice tumor size of 150 200 mm approximately 14 days after implantation tumors were measured randomized and treated with hFc REGN421 cisplatin or combination of REGN421 and cisplatin. A total of 45 mice were divided into nine groups n 5 per cohort . The first group was treated subcutaneously sc with hFc at 2 mg kg the second and third groups were treated sc with REGN421 at 0.5 and 2 mg kg respectively the fourth and fifth groups were treated intraperitoneally ip with cisplatin at 0.5 and 2 mg kg respectively the sixth group was treated sc with REGN421 at 0.5 mg kg and ip with cisplatin at 0.5 mg kg the seventh group was treated sc with REGN421 at 0.5 mg kg and ip with cisplatin at 2 mg kg the eighth group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg and ip with cisplatin at 0.5 mg kg and the ninth group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg and ip with cisplatin at 2 mg kg. REGN421 was administered every 3 4 days starting on day 14 and mice received three doses total. Cisplatin was administered every 24 hours starting on day 14 mice received four doses total.

To assess the effects of REGN421 and cisplatin as single agents or in combination treatments the changes in tumor size were recorded. Tumor growth was measured three days before the initial REGN421 treatment on the day of each REGN421 treatment days 14 17 and 21 and thereafter every 3 4 days until tumors reached 600 mmin size. In vivo tumor size was calculated using the formula length width 2 and Table 1 .

Tumor Growth Inhibition TGI was determined by calculating the difference in tumor size for treated T versus vehicle control C tumor at the day the control cohort was euthanized i.e. at day 32 TGI 1 T T C C 100.

Tumor growth delay TGD was assessed as the difference in days between treated T versus control C tumors when each cohort reached a specified tumor size. The predetermined tumor size for this experiment was 600 mm.

The results show that treatment with REGN421 alone caused a 54 reduction in tumor growth. Treatment with cisplatin alone resulted in reduced tumor growth 61 reduction for the dose of 0.5 mg kg injection and 54 reduction for the dose of 2 mg kg injection . The combination treatments produced higher reductions in tumor growth than either single agent treatment 104 reduction for 0.5 mg kg injection cisplatin plus 2 mg kg injection REGN421 and 58 reduction for 2 mg kg injection cisplatin plus 2 mg kg injection REGN421 .

These results showed that the treatment of tumors with a combination of Dll4 blocker together with cisplatin at 2 mg kg injection of Dll4 blocker and 0.5 mg kg injection cisplatin can result in greater inhibition of tumor growth than either single agent.

The effect of REGN421 in combination with cisplatin on tumor growth was evaluated on tumors implanted in humanized Dll4 SCID mice as described above. Each mouse was implanted subcutaneously sc with 5 10human A549 tumor cells non small cell lung cancer or NSCLC . After the tumors were established in the mice tumor size of 100 150 mm approximately 29 days after implantation tumors were measured randomized and treated with hFc REGN421 cisplatin or combination of REGN421 and cisplatin. A total of 36 mice were divided into 6 groups n 6 per cohort . The first group was treated sc with hFc at 2 mg kg the second group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg the third and fourth groups were treated ip with cisplatin at 2.5 and 4.5 mg kg respectively the fifth group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg and ip with cisplatin at 2.5 mg kg and the sixth group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg and ip with cisplatin at 4.5 mg kg. REGN421 was administered every 3 4 days starting on day 29 and mice received three doses total. Cisplatin was administered every 24 hours starting on day 29 and mice received two doses total.

To assess the effects of REGN421 and cisplatin as single agents or in combination we measured tumor size volume beginning three days before the initial REGN421 treatment on the day of each agent treatment days 29 30 33 36 and thereafter every 3 4 days until tumors reached 600 mmin size. In vivo tumor size was calculated using the formula length width 2. The effects on tumor growth are indicated in and Table 2.

The results show that treatment with REGN421 alone caused a 54 reduction in tumor growth. Treatment with cisplatin alone resulted in reduced tumor growth 35 reduction for the dose of 2.5 mg kg injection and 22 reduction for the dose of 4.5 mg kg injection . The combination treatments produced higher reductions in tumor growth than either single agent treatment 69 reduction for 2.5 mg kg injection of cisplatin plus 2 mg kg injection of REGN421 and 80 reduction for 4.5 mg kg injection of cisplatin plus 2 mg kg injection of REGN421 . The combination treatments delayed tumor growth significantly 21 days for 2.5 mg kg injection of cisplatin plus 2 mg kg injection of REGN421 and 26 days for 4.5 mg kg injection of cisplatin plus 2 mg kg injection of REGN421 compared to control and either single agent p

These results show that treatment of tumors with a combination of Dll4 blocker together with cisplatin at 2 mg kg injection of Dll4 blocker and 2.5 4.5 mg kg injection of cisplatin can result in greater inhibition of tumor growth than either single agent.

The effect of anti Dll4 antibody in combination with docetaxel TAXOTERE on tumor growth was evaluated on tumors implanted in Severe Combined Immunodeficiency SCID mice. Each mouse was implanted subcutaneously sc with 1 10rat C6 tumor cells glioblastoma cells . After the tumors were established tumor size of 100 150 mm approximately 13 days after implantation the mice were treated with hFc docetaxel Dll4 antibody or a combination of docetaxel plus Dll4 antibody. Since these mice expressed mouse Dll4 the Dll4 Ab used in this experiment was prepared in house based on the published sequence WO 2007 143689 and designated as REGN 577. REGN 577 binds to human and mouse Dll4 but does not detectably binds human Dll1 and JAG1. A total of 30 tumor bearing male mice were randomized into six groups N 5 . The first group was treated subcutaneously with hFc at 25 mg kg and intravenously iv with vehicle the second group was treated with REGN577 sc at 5 mg kg the third group was treated with docetaxel iv at 4.5 mg kg the fourth group was treated with docetaxel iv at 6 mg kg the fifth group was treated with docetaxel iv at 4.5 mg kg plus REGN577 sc at 5 mg kg the sixth group was treated with docetaxel iv at 6 mg kg plus REGN577 sc at 5 mg kg. Docetaxel and or Dll4 antibody were administered on the same day. Animals were treated 2 times per week and received a total of 3 doses. Starting from the day of initial treatment body weight and tumors were measured twice a week until the mice were euthanized when tumors reached 600 mmin size. Tumor size was calculated using the formula length width 2.

The control tumors reached the size of 600 mmand were harvested on day 25. At Day 25 the results show that treatment with Dll4 antibody alone caused a modest reduction in tumor growth by approximately 44 . Treatment with docetaxel alone resulted in reduced tumor growth 62 reduction for the dose of 4.5 mg kg and 70 reduction for the dose of 6 mg kg . The combination treatments produced larger reductions in tumor growth 75 reduction for 4.5 mg kg docetaxel plus Dll4 Ab and 81 reduction for 6 mg kg docetaxel plus Dll4 Ab than control and either single agent treatment. TGI and TGD were determined Table 3 .

These results show that treatment of tumors with a combination of Dll4 blocker together with various doses of docetaxel can delay tumor growth almost twice as long and result in greater tumor growth inhibition than either single agent.

The effect of anti Dll4 antibody in combination with docetaxel TAXOTERE sanofi aventis on tumor growth was evaluated on tumors implanted in Severe Combined Immunodeficiency SCID mice. Each mouse was implanted pseudo orthotopically subcutaneously into mammary gland 3 with 5 10human MDA MB 231 breast tumor cells with MATRIGEL BD Biosciences lot 84540 . After the tumors were established in the mice tumor size of 150 200 mm approximately 45 days after implantation mice were treated with hFc docetaxel Dll4 antibody or a combination of docetaxel plus Dll4 antibody. A total of 25 tumor bearing male mice were randomized into five groups N 5 mice per group . The first group was treated subcutaneously with hFc at 25 mg kg and intravenously iv with vehicle the second group was treated with Dll4 antibody REGN577 sc at 5 mg kg the third group was treated with docetaxel iv at 4.5 mg kg the fourth group was treated with docetaxel iv at 6 mg kg the fifth group was treated with docetaxel iv at 6 mg kg plus REGN577 sc at 5 mg kg. Docetaxel and or Dll4 antibody were administered on the same day. Animals were treated 2 times per week and received a total of 3 doses. Starting from the day of initial treatment body weight and tumors were measured twice a week until the mice are euthanized. Mice were euthanized when tumors reached 600 mmin size. Tumor size was calculated using the formula length width 2.

The control tumors reached 600 mmand were harvested on day 63. At Day 63 the results show that treatment with docetaxel alone produced modest reduction of tumor growth 37 reduction for the dose of 4.5 mg kg and 52 reduction for the dose of 6 mg kg . Treatment with Dll4 antibody alone caused a significant reduction in tumor growth approximately 85 reduction meanwhile the combination treatment resulted in tumor regression 105 reduction for 6 mg kg docetaxel plus Dll4 Ab . TGI and TGD were determined Table 4 .

Docetaxel treatment alone resulted in minimal delay in tumor growth 4 days for the dose of 4.5 mg kg and 4 days for the dose of 6 mg kg . Tumors treated with Dll4 antibody alone delayed tumor growth by 21 days. The combination treatments delayed tumor growth further compared to control and either single agent treatment 28 days for 6 mg kg docetaxel plus Dll4 Ab p

These results show that MDA MB 231 tumors are modestly responsive to docetaxel treatment alone but are very sensitive to treatment with anti Dll4 antibody. Combination of Dll4 blocker together with docetaxel can further delay tumor growth and slightly improve tumor growth inhibition tumor regression compared to either single agent.

The effect of anti Dll4 Ab REGN421 in combination with 5 FU on tumor growth was evaluated on tumors implanted in humanized Dll4 SCID mice. Each mouse was implanted subcutaneously sc with 5 10human HCT116 tumor cells CRC . After the tumors were established in the mice tumor size of 150 mm 22 days after implantation tumors were measured and randomized. The mice were then treated with hFc REGN421 5 FU or combination of REGN421 and 5 FU. A total of 30 mice were divided into 6 groups n 5 per cohort . The first group was treated sc with hFc at 2 mg kg the second group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg the third and fourth groups were treated ip with 5 FU at 15 and 25 mg kg respectively the fifth group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg and ip with 5 FU at 15 mg kg and the sixth group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg and ip with 5 FU at 25 mg kg. REGN421 was administered every 3 4 days starting on day 22 and mice received three doses total. 5 FU was administered every 3 4 days starting on day 22 and mice received three doses total.

To assess the effects of REGN421 and 5 FU as single agents or in combination the changes in tumor size volume were measured beginning three days before the initial REGN421 treatment and then on the day of each agent treatment days 22 26 29 and thereafter every 3 4 days until tumors reach 600 mmin size. In vivo tumor size is calculated using the formula length width 2 and Table 5 .

5 FU treatment alone resulted in minimal delay in tumor growth 4 days for the total dose of 45 mg kg and 2 days for the total dose of 75 mg kg . Tumors treated with Dll4 antibody alone delayed tumor growth by 6 days. The combination treatments delayed tumor growth further compared to control p

The effect of anti Dll4 Ab REGN421 in combination with irinotecan irinotecan hydrochloride on tumor growth was evaluated on tumors implanted in humanized Dll4 SCID mice.

Each mouse was implanted subcutaneously sc with 5 10human HCT116 tumor cells. After the tumors were established in the mice tumor size of 150 mm 15 days after implantation tumors were measured and randomized. The mice were then treated with hFc REGN421 irinotecan or combination of REGN421 and irinotecan. A total of 30 mice were divided into 6 groups n 5 per cohort . The first group was treated sc with hFc at 2 mg kg the second group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg the third and fourth groups were treated ip with irinotecan at 7.5 and 25 mg kg respectively the fifth group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg and ip with irinotecan at 7.5 mg kg and the sixth group was treated sc with REGN421 at 2 mg kg and ip with irinotecan at 25 mg kg. REGN421 was administered every 3 4 days starting on day 15 and mice received three doses total. Irinotecan was administered every 3 4 days starting on day 15 and mice received three doses total.

To assess the effects of REGN421 and irinotecan as single agents or in combination treatments the changes in tumor size volume are measured starting three days before the initial REGN421 treatment and then on the day of each agent treatment days 15 19 22 and thereafter every 3 4 days until tumors reach 600 mmin size. In vivo tumor size is calculated using the formula length width 2. Results are shown in and Table 6.

Irinotecan treatment alone resulted in delay in tumor growth 8 days for the total dose of 22.5 mg kg and 16 days for the total dose of 75 mg kg . Tumors treated with Dll4 antibody alone delayed tumor growth by 9 days. The combination treatments significantly improved anti tumor efficacy and delayed tumor growth further compared to either single agent treatment 19 days for 75 mg kg irinotecan plus Dll4 Ab p

The effect of anti hDll4 antibody on differential gene expression in tumors was studied in humanized Dll4 SCID mice implanted with human Colo205 colorectal tumor cells. Briefly Male and female humanized Dll4 SCID mice were subcutaneously implanted with 2 10Colo205 cells per mouse. When the tumors reached 150 mm mice 4 animals per group were treated with a single dose of REGN421 at 0.5 5 or 15 mg kg or of hFc control at 15 mg kg. The tumors were excised at 5 hrs 10 hrs 24 hrs 72 hrs and 7 days after the treatment and stored in RNA later stabilization reagent Qiagen . Tumor RNA was purified using the RNEASY Midi Kit Qiagen . Tissue was homogenized in lysis buffer containing mercaptoethanol in a mixer mill loaded onto the columns and unbound contaminants washed through. DNase I digestion was performed on the column and RNA was eluted in RNase free water. Cyanine 3 Cy3 CTP was incorporated into amplified cRNA from 500 ng of total RNA using the QUICK AMP RNA Amplification Kit Agilent Technologies . Cy3 labeled cRNA from each sample was then hybridized to a custom array covering both the mouse and human transcriptome. The hybridization and wash of the arrays were performed according to the manufacture s protocol and arrays were scanned on an Agilent Microarray scanner. The data were extracted from scanned array images using the Agilent Feature Extraction Software 9.5.

To identify genes differentially expressed between control and treatment groups per chip median centering is applied to the complete genomic profile of each sample. Gene expression values are then compared between two groups using a random variance model t test Simon R. A. et al. 2007 Analysis of Gene Expression Data Using BRB Array Tools 3 11 7 . Those genes with a mean difference greater than 1.5 fold and p value

Hey1 is a member of Hey family that has been identified as immediate downstream targets of Notch activation and it has been shown that inhibition of Dll4 Notch pathway signaling in tumors in vivo in mice studies results in the reduction of Hey 1 RNA levels Noguera Troise I et al. 2006 444 7122 1032 7 . As shown in analysis of Hey1 mRNA levels in the current study using microarray revealed that Hey1 mRNA levels were decreased in the REGN421 treated mice compared to control hFc treated mice starting at 10 hours post treatment but were most significantly decreased at 72 hours and 7 days post treatment. No significant decrease was observed at 0.5 mg kg i.e. the lowest dose of REGN421. These results indicated that REGN421 effectively blocked the Notch signal pathway and that Hey1 could be a useful pharmacodynamic marker for inhibition of Notch signaling by a Dll4 antibody.

REGN421 is currently being studied in a first in human trial. The primary objective of the study is to determine the recommended dose of REGN421 for future efficacy trials. The secondary objectives are to characterize the drug safety profile its pharmacokinetics immunogenicity and pharmacodynamics as well as preliminary evidence of efficacy. In this study anti hDll4 antibody REGN 421 is administered intravenously every 3 weeks to patients whose cancer has progressed on conventional therapy. The study design follows standard methodology for dose escalation and definition of dose limiting toxicity. To date 7 patients have been treated at 0.25 mg kg dose every three weeks and 6 patients have been treated at 0.50 mg kg dose every three weeks. For the pharmacokinetic study blood samples were taken at pre dose 0 hour and post dose 1 2 4 and 8 hours on Day 1 followed by Days 2 3 4 8 and 15 of Cycle 1 and pre dose 0 hour on Day 1 of Cycles 2 and post treatment follow up on Days 15 30 and 60. Plasma serum levels of REGN421 in the samples are measured by ELISA with an upper limit of quantification of 2.5 g mL and a lower limit of quantification of 0.039 g mL in the undiluted serum sample. The study is ongoing with the intent to administer higher doses defined in the protocol as 1 2 4 and 7 mg kg dose.

The currently available data showing plasma pharmacokinetic parameters following single 30 min. IV infusion of REGN421 at 0.25 mg kg 7 patients and 0.5 mg kg 2 patients are shown in Table 7. C Maximum serum concentration of the drug T Time to the last quantifiable concentration of the drug C Last quantifiable concentration of the drug AUC Area under curve up to the last concentration of the drug AUC Total area under the curve i.e. drug exposure t Terminal half life V Volume of distribution at steady state CL Drug clearance rate. Values are mean CV and range a median range .

As shown in Table 7 peak serum concentrations of REGN421 were average values of 6.27 g mL at the 0.25 mg kg dose level and 9.88 g mL at the 0.50 mg kg dose level. These values are in the range of REGN421 concentrations associated with anti tumor activity in animal xenograft models.

The pharmacodynamic effect of REGN421 on the Dll4 notch signaling pathway has been analyzed using microarray technology on the patient serum samples collected prior to as well as 24 hours following REGN421 administration. The results are shown in Table 8.

As shown in Table 8 the expression of the Hey 1 gene upon REGN421 administration was reduced compared to pre treatment samples in all samples. As observed in the xenograft tumor model in humanized Dll4 SCID mice see Example 7 above the findings suggest that REGN421 is indeed inhibiting the biological activity of Dll4 in humans.

The study will be conducted in adult patients with advanced or metastatic cancer that is refractory to standard therapy or have no approved treatment options. Patients who are diagnosed The study will be conducted in adult patients with advanced or metastatic cancer that is refractory to standard therapy or have no approved treatment options. Patients who are diagnosed to have advanced solid malignancies according to pathological physical and radiological examination with an ECOG Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status score of 0 2 0 5 scale and adequate renal hepatic and hematological laboratory parameters are eligible for participation in the study. Patients are allowed to receive concurrent supportive care such as blood transfusions and analgesics during the study. Patients may have received prior chemotherapy or biologic therapy for metastatic disease. Patients are assigned in sequential dosing cohorts in a 3 3 design. Three patients will be enrolled at one dose level and if no dose limiting toxicities DLT occur dose escalation to the next dose level will transpire. If 1 of the first 3 patients experiences a DLT then 3 additional patients may be enrolled at that dose level. If 2 of the first 3 patients experience a DLT then that dose level will be considered to have excessive toxicity and 3 additional patients will be enrolled at the previous dose level. Patients will receive Day 1 anti Dll4 antibody e.g. REGN421 or REGN281 at 0.25 to 10 mg kg IV over 30 minutes plus gemcitabine 1250 mg mIV infusion over 30 minutes and Day 8 gemcitabine 1250 mg mIV infusion over 30 minutes. The combination regimen is repeated every 3 weeks until cancer progression or intolerable toxicity develops.

The primary end point is to assess the safety tolerability and dose limiting toxicities of the anti Dll4 antibody in combination with gemcitabine and to identify the maximum tolerated dose MTD of the anti Dll4 antibody in combination with gemcitabine in patients with advanced solid malignancies. The secondary end points include a description of antitumor activity according to RECIST criteria by Eisenhauer et al. 2009 4 5 228 247 assessment of the pharmacokinetic PK profile of the anti Dll4 antibody when given in combination with gemcitabine and determination of immunogenicity to the anti Dll4 antibody. Disease remission is evaluated using physical examination radiological methods X Ray Computed Tomography or Magnetic Resonance Imaging . Adverse events are assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events CTCAE v 4.0 available under Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program or CTEP at the National Cancer Institute web site . Serum samples are taken from the patients to measure the concentrations of the anti Dll4 antibody as well as the presence of possible antibodies against the anti Dll4 antibody.

Briefly adult patients who are diagnosed to have locally advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer according to pathological physical and radiological examination with an ECOG Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status score of 0 2 0 5 scale and adequate renal hepatic and hematological laboratory parameters are eligible for participation in the study. Patients are allowed to receive concurrent supportive care such as blood transfusions and analgesics during the study. Patients may not have received prior chemotherapy or anti angiogenic or anti EGFR therapy for metastatic disease prior such therapy for the adjuvant treatment of their disease is allowed and must have been completed at least 12 months prior to enrollment on this study. The patients are randomly assigned in a 1 1 ratio to receive intravenous FOLFOX chemotherapy Day 1 Oxaliplatin 85 mg mIV infusion and leucovorin folinic acid 200 mg mIV infusion followed by 5 FU 400 mg mIV bolus given over 2 4 minutes followed by 5 FU 600 mg mIV as a 22 hour continuous infusion. Day 2 Leucovorin 200 mg mIV infusion followed by 5 FU 400 mg mIV bolus given over 2 4 minutes followed by 5 FU 600 mg mIV infusion as a 22 hour continuous infusion with bevacizumab AVASTIN Humanized monoclonal Ab against vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF Genentech Day 1 10 mg kg IV every 2 weeks or an anti Dll4 antibody REGN421 at 0.25 to 10 mg kg IV on day 1 in combination with the previously mentioned treatment. The treatment is repeated every 2 weeks until cancer progression or intolerable toxicity develops.

The primary end point is the proportion of patients who have achieved at least a partial remission a 30 or more decrease in the sum of diameters of identified cancer lesions according to RECIST criteria by Eisenhauer et al. 2009 supra and the secondary end points include time to tumor progression and overall survival. Disease remission is evaluated using physical examination radiological methods X Ray Computed Tomography or Magnetic Resonance Imaging and the Carcino Embryonic Antigen CEA level measured in serum. Other clinical parameters such as adverse events are also assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events CTCAE v 4.0 supra . The patients serum samples are taken to measure the serum concentrations of the anti Dll4 antibody as well as the presence of possible antibodies against the anti Dll4 antibody.

The study will be conducted in adult patients with advanced inoperable or metastatic breast cancer. They may have failed prior adjuvant therapy. Patients who are diagnosed to have breast cancer according to pathological physical and radiological examination with an ECOG Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status score of 0 2 in 0 5 scale and adequate renal hepatic and hematological laboratory parameters are eligible for participation in the study. Patients are allowed to receive concurrent supportive care such as blood transfusions and analgesics during the study. Patients may not have received prior chemotherapy or biologic therapy for metastatic disease. A sequential cohort of up to 100 patients will be treated after successfully passing screening procedures to determine patient eligibility. Patients will receive Day 1 anti Dll4 antibody REGN421 at 0.25 to 10 mg kg IV over 30 minutes plus docetaxel 75 mg mIV infusion over 30 minutes. The combination regimen is repeated every 3 weeks until cancer progression or intolerable toxicity develops.

The primary end point is to assess the efficacy of the treatment based on tumor response rate according to RECIST criteria by Eisenhauer et al. 2009 4 5 228 247 and time to disease progression. Secondary endpoints will include a description of the safety and of the pharmacokinetic PK profile of the anti Dll4 antibody when given in combination with docetaxel as well as determination of immunogenicity to the anti Dll4 antibody. Disease remission is evaluated using physical examination radiological methods X Ray Computed Tomography or Magnetic Resonance Imaging . Adverse events are assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events CTCAE v 4.0 available under Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program or CTEP at the National Cancer Institute web site . Serum samples are taken from the patients to measure the concentrations of the anti Dll4 antibody as well as the presence of possible antibodies against the anti Dll4 antibody.

The study will be conducted in adult patients with advanced inoperable or metastatic bladder cancer. Patients who are diagnosed to have invasive bladder cancer according to pathological physical and radiological examination with an ECOG Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status score of 0 2 in 0 5 scale and adequate renal hepatic and hematological laboratory parameters are eligible for participation in the study. Patients are allowed to receive concurrent supportive care such as blood transfusions and analgesics during the study. Patients may not have received prior chemotherapy or biologic therapy for metastatic disease. A sequential cohort of up to 100 patients will be treated after successfully passing screening procedures to determine patient eligibility. Patients will receive anti Dll4 antibody REGN421 at 0.25 to 10 mg kg IV over 30 minutes on day 1 plus gemcitabine 1 000 mg mover 30 to 60 minutes on days 1 8 and 15 plus cisplatin 70 mg mon day 2. The combination regimen is repeated every 4 weeks until cancer progression or intolerable toxicity develops.

The primary end point is to assess the efficacy of the treatment based on tumor response rate according to RECIST criteria by Eisenhauer et al. 2009 4 5 228 247 and time to disease progression. Secondary endpoints will include safety profile and a description of the pharmacokinetic PK profile of the anti Dll4 antibody when given in combination with docetaxel and determination of immunogenicity to the anti Dll4 antibody. Disease remission is evaluated using physical examination radiological methods X Ray Computed Tomography or Magnetic Resonance Imaging . Adverse events are assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events CTCAE v 4.0 available under Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program or CTEP at the National Cancer Institute web site . Serum samples are taken from the patients to measure the concentrations of the anti Dll4 antibody as well as the presence of possible antibodies against the anti Dll4 antibody.

