---

title: Method and system for providing masking services
abstract: A system and method for presenting on-demand masking of data as a software service in a distributed environment is provided. An application hosted on a computing device receives request for access to application data from a user. Credentials of the user are first validated in order to determine whether the user is authorized to access the requested application data. For an authorized user, a category of the user is determined to ascertain whether the user is privileged to obtain full access. In case the user is a privileged user, unmasked application data is fetched from a database utility and provided to the user. In case the user is not a privileged user, application data access request is transferred to a data masking service. Application data is fetched from database utility, masked based on pre-defined masking rules and provided to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08881224&OS=08881224&RS=08881224
owner: Infosys Limited
number: 08881224
owner_city: 
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20101011
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of data masking. More particularly the present invention implements on demand masking of data offered as a software service in a distributed environment and extensible to a cloud environment.

Globalization of business processes as well as advancements in Information Technology have resulted in extensive use of computer based information systems for transmitting and retrieving business related data across physical locations. IT services now enable organizations to manage data across various offices located around the world. Organizations are now able to share customer data with each other without being restricted by geographical boundaries. Further business needs have driven organizations to resort to outsourcing of certain business services for increasing productivity and efficiency. Outsourcing of business services may entail outsourcing consumer data to foreign countries. As a result of extensive sharing of customer data both within and outside organizations for various purposes data privacy has become a prime concern for businesses involved in handling sensitive customer data.

Countries around the world are developing regulations designed to support confidentiality. Legislations are being passed insisting that companies outsourcing consumer data to foreign countries assume responsibility for the data. To address the issues of data privacy various techniques such as Anonymization Randomization Perturbation Cryptographic Approach Privacy Policy Languages and Data Masking are frequently used in the industry. However the aforementioned techniques are dependant on type of operating system software platform or software language in which the customer data has been implemented. Commonly used data masking techniques implemented for maintaining customer privacy involve tasks such as explicitly setting up distinct software environments for masking data pertaining to different operating systems software platforms.

Commonly used data masking solutions in the industry include offering data masking as a static software solution in the form of a standalone product. Organizations using standalone data masking products have to take care of issues such as deployment of the software product by creating software installers and integrating the product with business processes already in operation. These issues may thereby involve high developmental cost and use of special hardware. Moreover usage of such a product may include implementing operations for scheduling backups and disaster recovery. Since a data masking software product is physically installed in the software system of an organization using the product it may face a threat of physical access by unauthorized persons. Also regular updates or bug fixes become cumbersome as the standalone product is tightly integrated with other organizational processes. Further there may be scenarios where use of data masking solution is very minimal involving access by a single application for a limited period of time. In such a case deployment of a standalone product is a significant overhead for an organization.

In light of the above there exists a need for a data masking solution that offers real time on demand masking while maintaining data privacy.

A method and system for providing on demand data masking as a software service is provided. The method includes receiving request by a hosted software application for access to application data. Application data may be requested by a user. In various embodiments of the present invention the user may be a human user a software program or an automated machine. Credentials of user requesting the application are first validated by the application. Validation is performed to determine whether the user is authorized to access the requested application data. Upon successful determination of user validity requested application data is provided to the user. In case user validity is not determined the user is provided with very limited access to application.

In various embodiments of the present invention for the purpose of providing application data to user firstly type of user is determined based on user credentials. The requesting user may be a privileged or a non privileged user. In case the user is a privileged user application data stored in a database utility is fetched and unmasked data is provided to the user. In case the user is not a privileged user application data access request is transferred by the application to a subscribed data masking service. The masking service fetches application data from the database utility masks the data based on pre configured masking rules and provides masked data to the application. Subscribing to data masking service comprises executing Software as a Service agreement between the application owner and the masking services provider.

In an embodiment of the present invention masking rules are configured by an application owner managing the application. Configuration of masking rules is performed by integrating subscribed data masking service with the application after subscribing to the data masking service by the application owner. Configuring masking rules comprises specifying data masking options such as specifying data to be masked for an application and type of masking to be performed.

In various embodiments of the present invention application hosted by the application owner masking service provided by the masking services provider and storage services provided by the database utility are implemented on independent software environments connected through one or more communication networks.

The method and system of the present invention provides an application owner hosting an application with means to subscribe to data masking service hosted by a masking service provider. In an embodiment of the present invention a masking service provider receives request for subscription to data masking service from an application owner hosting a software application. The Masking Services Provider authenticates credentials of the application owner. For facilitating subscription of data masking service one or more masking rules corresponding to the software application are configured by the application owner. The Masking Services Provider facilitates configuration of one or more masking rules by providing a set of user interfaces to the application owner for specifying options for configuring masking rules.

In an embodiment of the present invention after having subscribed to a data masking service the Masking Services Provider receives request for performing data masking on data associated with the software application. Based on the request received one or more data masking algorithms are executed for performing data masking according to the one or more masking rules. The one or more data masking algorithms include algorithms for masking at least one of alphabetical data numerical data data comprising combination of alphabets and numerals data comprising unique codes or any combination thereof.

In an embodiment of the present invention a masking service is implemented in the form of a source program. In another embodiment of the present invention the masking service is implemented in the form of an object program.

A system for provisioning application data in secure form to a requesting user is provided. The system comprises a computing device which is part of an organization providing one or more applications to requesting users and configured to host software application requested by a user. The user is operationally connected to the computing device through a communication network. The system further comprises a credential check module configured to validate credentials of the user requesting application data and a subscription module configured to manage subscription of one or more applications requesting access to the one or more data masking services. In an embodiment of the present invention the subscription module is incorporated as part of the masking services provider. For performing data masking the system of the invention comprises a masking services provider operationally connected to the computing device and configured to perform masking of data and provide one or more data masking services. The system of the invention also comprises a database utility operationally connected to the computing device and data masking services provider and configured to store data associated with the software application.

In an embodiment of the present invention the computing device hosting the software application is part of a software vendor configured to provide one or more applications and to host the software application. The software vendor may be internal or external to the organization.

In an embodiment of the present invention the credential check module validates user credentials by determining whether a user is authorized to access a requested software application. The credential check module is further configured to determine category of user and to take appropriate action based on the determination. If the user is a privileged user the credential check module fetches application data from database utility and provides the data to the software application. However if the user is an unprivileged user the credential check module transfers application data request to Masking Services Provider.

In various embodiments of the present invention the Masking Service Provider includes one or more application servers configured to execute multiple instances of data masking algorithms. The Masking Services Provider further includes a rules engine configured to store software instructions for implementing data masking rules during execution of data masking process.

In an embodiment of the present invention the Masking Services Provider regularly updates masking rules based on requirements by application owners.

The disclosure is provided in order to enable a person having ordinary skill in the art to practice the invention. Exemplary embodiments herein are provided only for illustrative purposes and various modifications will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art. The general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The terminology and phraseology used herein is for the purpose of describing exemplary embodiments and should not be considered limiting. Thus the present invention is to be accorded the widest scope encompassing numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. For purpose of clarity details relating to technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention have been briefly described or omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

Exemplary embodiments of the methods systems and computer program products described herein provide data masking applications as real time software services to end users. In various embodiments of the present invention an application owner can connect to a computer network such as the Internet and can subscribe to one or more data masking services provided by a Masking Services Provider. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the application owner integrates the one or more services into his application and hosts the application on a computer system. Further an end user may be provided with a data masking service through the application hosted by the application owner. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention software maintenance activities and upgrades to masking service applications are performed by the masking services provider thereby annulling the need for end users to download and install patches upgrades to the application.

In exemplary embodiments of the present invention methods systems and computer program products described herein receive request for application data from an end user who has been authenticated by the application. Authentication is performed in order to determine whether the user is authorized to access sensitive data. In an embodiment of the present invention once the authentication is successful raw data is retrieved from data storage operationally connected to a hosted application and data masking is performed on the raw data by a software service subscribed to by the application owner. Rather than obligating an application owner to purchase entire data masking solution the system of the present invention offers data masking as a software service that can be used dynamically. This obviates the need to buy a dedicated license entire product suite thereby resulting in cost savings for an application owner needing to use a small level of masking service for a limited amount of time. The end user requesting application data may be a client such as a human user a software program an automated machine etc.

The present invention would now be discussed in context of embodiments as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

Customer centric organizations such as Banks Financial Institutions Utility service providers employ various applications that include using and sharing sensitive customer data. One or more end users may request access to application data containing sensitive customer information. Typically end users may be located within or external to the organization. In various embodiments of the present invention in order to provide access to applications without compromising data integrity application data is masked. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention an application owner is connected to a Masking services Provider through a communication network and subscribes to Data Masking services offered by the Masking services Provider. For the purpose of subscribing to Data Masking Services an application owner employs the following steps. As illustrated in the figure at step an application owner sends a request for subscription to one or more masking applications through a communication network. A typical data masking service may include a data masking algorithm implementation for masking specific type of data. In an embodiment of the present invention the subscription request is sent to a Data Masking Services Provider. The subscription request includes providing options for implementing type of data masking. Examples of types of data masking offered as services by the Data Masking Services Provider include but are not limited to algorithms for masking one or more of alphabetical data numerical data data comprising combination of alphabets and numerals data comprising unique codes including special characters etc. Further the subscription request may include specifying level and degree of data masking associated with the request for example degree of shuffling to be implemented for a data masking service. As part of the subscription request at step the application owner submits its credentials to the Masking Services Provider. Examples of credentials include username password IP address of request originating computer etc. Before providing one or more masking services to the application owner credentials provided by the application owner are authenticated by a subscription module at step . The credentials of application owner may be authenticated using authentication systems such as Single Sign On SSO or Windows Domain System.

At step the one or more masking services are extended to the application owner. For the purposes of this invention the Masking Services Provider acts as a SaaS provider. An important aspect of extending masking services to application owner includes executing a SaaS agreement between the application owner and the Masking Services Provider. In various embodiments of the present invention the SaaS agreement specifies details regarding type of subscription subscription payment options options for privacy law compliance requirements data partitioning provisions etc. Upon receiving confirmation of provision of masking services at step the application owner integrates the one or more masking services with an appropriate application. In an embodiment of the present invention a Masking Services Provider providing the masking service comprises a rules engine that generates a set of Application Programming Interfaces API s . The API s are configured to communicate with middleware of external software systems and designate details regarding forms of data masking to be implemented. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention when an application owner integrates the data masking service with an application based on the type of application and subscription options selected by the application owner one or more data masking rules corresponding to the application are set at the rules engine. For example in various embodiments of the present invention the system of the invention exposes one or more user interfaces to the application owner wherein the application owner can specify options related to implementation of data masking. Examples of options include but are not limited to amount of data to be masked for an application number of times masking is to be performed when application is accessed etc. Further the application is hosted on a local server. When application data is requested by an end user based on the user credentials either masked or unmasked data corresponding to the application is provided to the user.

In various embodiments of the present invention the method of providing a data masking service subscription to a requesting application owner which are described herein is implemented in software and is executed on one of the IT infrastructure components of the Masking Services Provider. The method may be implemented in the form of a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions.

The process steps involved in providing application data to a requesting user are as follows At step an end user puts in a request to a computing device hosting an application for access to application data. In an embodiment of the present invention the computing device is part of a communication network of an organization providing one or more software applications to requesting users through one or more communication networks. In another embodiment of the present invention the computing device may belong to an external vendor hosting the requested application on behalf of the organization and connected to the organization s communication network. At step the application hosted on the computing device determines whether the user credentials are validated. Validation of user credentials includes determining whether the user is authorized to access the requested application. If it is determined at step that the user is not authorized to access the requested application then at step the user is provided with very limited access to application. Contrarily if it is determined at step that the user is authorized to access the requested application the user is provided access to the on demand masking service. Then at step type of user requesting access to the application is determined In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the user may be a privileged user with authority to have unrestricted access to application data. At step if it is determined that the user is a privileged user at step unmasked application data is fetched from a database by the application and provided to the user. However if at step it is determined that the user is not a privileged user then at step the application data request is transferred to a data masking service provided by a Masking Services Provider. The data masking service then fetches application data in a secure mode from the database. Following the fetching of application data the data masking service performs the act of data masking based on pre configured masking rules and masked data is then provided to the application. The application subsequently provides masked application data to the user at step .

In various embodiments of the present invention the method of providing data associated with an application to a requesting user may be implemented in software and is executed on the computing device. The method may be implemented in the form of a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions.

The end user may be coupled to the computing device through a communication network. The network can be an IP based network for communication between the end user and the computing device through a broadband connection. The network may be implemented in a wireless fashion e.g. using wireless protocols and technologies such as WiFi WiMax etc or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the network can also be a packet switched network such as a local area network wide area network metropolitan area network Internet network or any other similar type of network environment including equipment for receiving and transmitting signals.

The application owner subscribes to real time data masking service provided by a Masking Services Provider . The Masking Services Provider is a SaaS provider an enterprise that provides one or more executable data masking applications on demand. Additionally the Masking Services Provider extends technical infrastructure computing power and computer storage necessary to execute the masking services. In an embodiment of the present invention the Masking Services Provider is a distributed computing or a cloud computing software platform comprising IT infrastructure components for maintaining and offering data masking services to multiple requesting applications. IT infrastructure components include Data Centers comprising computing equipment dedicated for running multiple data masking applications. Examples of computing equipment include but are not limited to Application Servers File servers Routers Switches Database Servers Network Security elements such as VPN gateways Firewalls Intrusion Detection Systems etc. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the Masking Services Provider employs multiple application servers networked with each other in a grid computing arrangement wherein the multiple application servers are configured to execute multiple instances of data masking algorithms. Based on subscription options chosen by the application owner the Masking Services Provider activates one or more servers to execute the one or more data masking applications. In various embodiments of the present invention the application owner subscribes to the one or more data masking applications through a subscription module via path P. The subscription module is a software module that manages the subscription of multiple users. In some embodiments of the present invention the subscription module is incorporated as an element of the Masking Services Provider . In other embodiments of the present invention the subscription module is an independent software module operationally connected to the Masking Services Provider and the computing device hosting the application through one or more communication networks. The subscription module manages and processes records of multiple subscribers subscribing to data masking services. Record of a subscriber includes but not limited to type of subscription subscription renewal options subscription payment options etc. Examples of type of subscription may include yearly half yearly quarterly etc. Further the subscription module is configured to receive electronic payments received by subscribers using secure protocols such as Transport Layer Security TLS Secure Socket Layer SSL etc. The application owner is able to configure software masking rules according to requirements. In certain embodiments of the present invention API s exposed by the Masking Services Provider are configured to accept calls from a web browser at the application owner . For example the web browser can present configuration screens by which the application owner can create configuration data.

In accordance with an implementation of the invention the subscription module presents one or more user interfaces to the application owner for inputting subscription details. Subsequently subscription details are processed and shared with the Masking Services Provider through the path P for stipulating rules for providing data masking service. In various embodiments of the present invention the Masking Services Provider comprises a rules engine which is a software module storing software instructions for implementing data masking rules. The masking rules are triggered in accordance with subscription details specified by the application owner . Examples of masking rules include but are not limited to number of digits in application data to be masked masking data for specific categories of user number of times masking to be implemented for certain applications increasing masking frequency based on application usage etc. In various embodiments of the present invention masking rules stored in the rules engine are updated frequently based on new requirements by application owners. Further based on subscription details the subscription module presents a SaaS agreement to the application owner that needs to be executed.

In an embodiment of the present invention the Masking Services Provider executes multiple data masking applications wherein a single instance of a data masking application is executed on a distinct server according to a specific rule. In order to execute the data masking application for multiple users a multi tenant architecture is implemented where the application is capable of virtually replicating and configuring itself based on requirements of each subscriber. In another embodiment of the present invention a single instance of a data masking application is implemented on multiple servers in a parallel computing environment. In such an environment tasks for implementing the application are shared among multiple processors.

For the purpose of executing data masking applications the Masking Services Provider is configured to employ one or more API s in order to communicate with external applications. Once the application owner subscribes to a data masking service corresponding to one or more specific rules the data masking service is integrated with one or more applications hosted by the computing device. Integrating the data masking service with an application includes incorporating critical aspects of the data masking service with the application. In an example one or more API s for configuring software rules are integrated with one or more applications. Consequently software rules corresponding to the data masking service are fetched through a resource adapter not shown in the figure into the one or more applications. In other embodiments of the present invention API s are configured to accept calls from other interfaces at the application owner . Thus the application owner is provided with means to directly access the data masking service so as to customize the data masking service according to its needs.

In various embodiments of the present invention the method and system of the present invention provides capabilities for executing data masking services for heterogeneous software environments. The end user may be a part of a software environment that is different from the environment hosting the Masking Services Provider . The end user may be part of different technology platform types such as UNIX based systems mainframes microcomputer based systems etc. In order to facilitate interchangeability of configuration data exchange of configuration data is realized using Extensible Markup Language XML tools such as XML editors and XML metadata tools.

Following integration of data masking service with an application in various embodiments of the present invention software in the computing device associated with the application is also configured to perform tasks associated with configuring masking rules. The software includes API s configured to invoke functionality of the data masking service for configuration of software rules. Based on the data masking rules stipulated at the application end by the application owner the Masking Services Provider executes data masking algorithms on demand and provides masked data to the application. Data associated with the application is then subsequently transmitted to the end user based on the configured data masking rules. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the end user is a customer requesting access to the application hosted by the computing device through path P. Accessing the application may include presenting electronic forms on a web interface for performing banking transactions. When the end user enters personal details in an electronic form data in subsequent web pages transmitted to the end user are masked and the web pages are thereby provisioned to the end user .

In various embodiments of the present invention when the end user requests for an application it transmits credentials along with the application request to the computing device. Examples of credentials include username password IP address of request originating computer etc. The application passes the credentials to a credential check module through path P. The credential check module validates the credentials of the end user . Validation of credentials includes determining category of the end user . In an embodiment of the present invention if the end user is a privileged user the credential check module provides the end user with unrestricted access to application data. Data corresponding to the application is fetched from a Database utility by the credential check module through path PS and is provided to the application. The Database utility comprises a database server and other storage modules configured to store application data. In another embodiment of the present invention if the end user is not a privileged user the credential check module transfers the application data request to the Masking Services Provider through path P. The end user is provided with masked data according to the pre configured data masking rules at the Masking Services Provider . For the purpose of providing application data in a secure form to an unprivileged user application data is fetched from the Database utility by the Masking Services Provider through path P. Fetched application data is then masked by the Masking Services Provider and delivered to the application through path P. The application subsequently transmits the masked data to the end user .

In various embodiments of the present invention the Masking Services Provider and the Database Utility operate as Cloud Environments accessible by computing device hosting the application in real time.

The method and system for providing data masking services as described in the present invention or any of its embodiments may be realized in the form of a computer system. Typical examples of a computer system include a general purpose computer a programmed microprocessor a micro controller a peripheral integrated circuit element and other devices or arrangement of devices that are capable of implementing the steps that constitute the method of the present invention.

The computer system typically comprises a computer an input device and a display unit. The computer typically comprises a microprocessor which is connected to a communication bus. The computer also includes a memory which may include Random Access Memory RAM and Read Only Memory ROM . Further the computer system comprises a storage device which can be a hard disk drive or a removable storage drive such as a floppy disk drive an optical disk drive and the like. The storage device can also be other similar means for loading computer programs or other instructions on the computer system.

The computer system executes a set of instructions that are stored in one or more storage elements to process input data. The storage elements may also hold data or other information as desired and may be an information source or physical memory element present in the processing machine. The set of instructions may include various commands that instruct the processing machine to execute specific tasks such as the steps constituting the method of the present invention.

While the exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described and illustrated herein it will be appreciated that they are merely illustrative. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications in form and detail may be made therein without departing from or offending the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

