---

title: Programmable logic device with embedded switch fabric
abstract: The invention in the simplest form is a programmable logic device comprising logic blocks configured substantially in a plane, external I/O endpoints, and embedded switched fabrics which provide non-contentious connection between the logic blocks and between logic blocks and I/O endpoints, the switch fabrics being offset from the plane of the logic blocks. The logic blocks are organized into logic groups, whereby a plurality of primary embedded switch fabrics are configurable for connecting logic blocks within logic groups, and at least one secondary switch fabric provides non-contentious connection between primary switch fabrics. The switch fabrics can employ non-blocking crossbar switches. A hierarchy of secondary switch fabrics can be included for providing non-contentions connection between both primary and other secondary switch fabrics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07839169&OS=07839169&RS=07839169
owner: SCA Technica, Inc.
number: 07839169
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100608
---
This application discloses and claims only subject matter disclosed in and names the inventor named in and is therefore a continuation of pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 177 175 filed Jul. 22 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 618 950 filed Jul. 14 2003 U.S. Pat. No. 7 404 074 issue date Jul. 22 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Application No. 60 395 871 filed Jul. 12 2002 all of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference for all purposes.

Portions of the present invention may have been made in conjunction with Government funding under contract number F30602 03 C 0183 and there may be certain rights to the Government.

The present invention relates to a programmable logic device PLD with embedded switch fabric and more particularly to PLDs having an embedded crossbar switch fabric interface a gate array and I O endpoints where the embedded fabric is connectible to gates I O endpoints and internal processors.

As evident from the widespread use of cellular phones pagers personal digital assistants PDA s wireless laptop computers and a varied assortment of other data and communications devices the World has evolved into a highly connected society. Despite the abundance of devices for transmitting and receiving information there are connectivity related problems between the individual devices as well as the underlying infrastructures employed in the transmission and reception.

The inability of wireless devices tends to be related to the specific implementation utilized in the design. Thus while the general hardware elements are similar the design limits the usage to a very particular deployment. For example cellular phones tend to be protocol specific so a person that switches from Sprint PCS cellular service to another provider will have to replace the entire phone. Other devices suffer from the same difficulties and accessories and other implementation schemes have to be used to provide interconnectivity.

A proposed solution to the non standardized communications operations lies in the software defined radio SDR architecture. In general software defined radios SDRs is used to describe radios that provide software control and reconfiguration of a variety of modulation techniques wide band or narrow band operation communications security functions such as hopping and waveform requirements of current and evolving standards over a broad frequency range. The frequency bands covered may still be constrained at the front end requiring a switch in the antenna system.

Since the initial developments in the early 1990 s researchers have been feverishly working on making SDR a reality. As stated a software defined radio is a radio whose channel modulation waveforms are defined in the software. Waveforms are generated as sampled digital signals converted from digital to analog via a wideband digital to analog converter DAC and possibly upconverted from an intermediate frequency IF to a radio frequency RF . On the receiver end a wideband Analog to Digital Converter ADC captures all of the channels of the software radio node. The receiver then extracts downconverts and demodulates the channel waveform using software on a general purpose processor. By employing common hardware elements and implementing design changes via the software the end user obtains a seamless transition between various protocols and the life cycle of the device is greatly enhanced.

SDR is an enabling technology applicable across a wide range of areas within the wireless industry that provides efficient and comparatively inexpensive solutions to several constraints posed in current systems. For example SDR enabled user devices and network equipment can be dynamically programmed in software to reconfigure their characteristics for better performance richer feature sets advanced new services that provide choices to the end user and new revenue streams for the service provider. SDR is uniquely suited to address the common requirements for communications in the military civil and commercial sectors.

There are various types and implementations of SDR architectures such as modal SDR and reconfigurable SDR depending upon the application. There are practical considerations related to cost size power and weight to contend with in addition to the performance characteristics desired.

A basic block diagram of the SDR functional blocks is shown in prior art . As the goal is to employ generic functional hardware blocks the interface and internal processing becomes important. There are various high level hierarchical functional models for SDR systems. In general there are four functional areas that need to be addressed by the SDR namely front end processing information security information processing and control .

Front end processing refers to input output I O interface the front end RF processing the RF IF up down conversions and the change between digital and analog signals. Modulation demodulation processing is considered part of the front end processing.

In a typical scenario an antenna is coupled to the RF section . The antenna is for both transmission and reception in conjunction with the RF section for those applications requiring both transmission and reception. The RF section is well known in the art and generally encompasses diplexers amplifiers and filters. The diplexer is a type of switch that allows a single antenna to transmit and receive signals whereas other designs employ separate antennas for transmitting and receiving. For reception the antenna typically feeds an input signal to an amplifier stage to boost the signal to acceptable levels. The IF section usually employs one or more mixers to downconvert the RF signal to the IF frequency by mixing the RF signal with the local oscillator signal and using the difference signal as the IF. Filtering can be used to extract known noise or unwanted extraneous signals along with multiple mixer and amplification stages.

The DAC ADC stage is used to convert digital to analog and analog to digital processing. For received signals the analog IF signal is coupled to an analog to digital converter ADC converter converts the analog signal to digital samples that is then digitally processed in the baseband section by some processing engine . The signal processing extracts the information signals which are then delivered to the appropriate function via an interface connection.

Information security is employed for the purpose of providing user privacy authentication and information protection. In the commercial environment this protection is specified by the underlying service standard while in the military arena this protection is consistent with the various Governmental doctrines and policies in effect.

A processing engine is used for information processing for decomposing or recovering information signals containing data control and timing. Content processing and I O functions map into path selection including bridging routing and gateway multiplexing source coding signaling protocol and I O functions.

The SDR architecture is designed to support functions connected through open interfaces and procedures for adding software specific tasks to each of the functional areas. The software applications for the open architecture consist of multiple subsystems interconnected by open interfaces wherein the subsystems are determined by implementation considerations. Each subsystem typically contains any required hardware resident firmware an operating system and software modules that may be common to more than one application. Interfaces link the software application to specific modules within each subsystem. The application layer tends to be modular flexible and software specific with a common software API layer.

The functional interface of the SDR architecture has interfaces that are implementation dependent with data and information traffic exchanged between the functional blocks along the interfaces. The interfaces can be described as information and control oriented with control over each of the functional blocks. The information transfer control and status data is between the various functional blocks including the antenna RF section IF section processing engine security section and control interface. As an example frequency at which a wireless signal is generated is determined the RF section and can be changed to accommodate different operating environments such as moving between regions with different frequency assignments.

SDR is more easily implemented in wireless devices and the handheld devices employing SDR generally have performance limitations that are dependent on the battery power size weight and cost requirements. Implementing SDR into laptops and automobiles present differing criteria but using the underlying principles.

One example of the potential for SDR lies in the wireless cell phone area. Existing communications network such as cellular use radios to operate with a specific wireless data network. As a user travels outside of the coverage area of its chosen wireless data network the radio signal is lost. Although some wireless data networks have established cooperative roaming agreements that allow a user with a compatible radio design to operate on a second foreign wireless data network. But the roaming agreements only help to alleviate coverage limitations and cannot provide for seamless widespread operation due to the existence of wireless data network incompatibilities.

Current wide area wireless voice and data networks communicate using different technologies such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Global System for Mobilization GSM Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD DataTac Mobitex and General Packet Radios Service GPRS . The utilization of various frequency bands also segregates wireless networks. While portable radio devices have emerged offering limited operation on multiple frequency bands few commercial devices have been realized that can provide multiple communication modes. Thus when a user enters a region serviced by a non compatible wireless data network the user may need to either rent or purchase a radio that is compatible with that region s local network.

Existing cellular radios commonly communicate via a single cellular service for example analog Personal Communication Service PCS CDMA TDMA GSM or Iridium service. The radio typically communicates by generating and receiving a waveform that is fixed throughout the lifetime of the radio. A problem with such a radio is that when a user moves from a home location to a remote location the radio is not easily configurable to communicate at the remote location as that location has coverage via a different service. For example when a user travels overseas the user s radio does not support a service that is available at the home location. In such situations the user may need to for example rent or purchase a radio that is compatible with local communication equipment.

Another problem is when existing radios need to update or receive a software application e.g. wireless email operating system . Typically a radio is taken into a service center to update or receive an application so that the radio can provide a service associated therewith which is time consuming and expensive.

Frequently users of radios such as police federal agency and military encounter difficulties when attempting to interoperate communication equipment. For example when a representative from the Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI travels to a remote location the representative may need to borrow equipment from regional officials to communicate with local police and fire services. This problem was identified and initiatives under the Homeland Defense legislation are seeking to improve communications between various domestic agencies. Similarly in the military community a Navy ship may desire for example to make and receive phone calls at a port at a remote location via local infrastructure equipment. Frequently existing systems do not allow interoperability between military and local communication equipment. Thus a problem with existing systems is interoperability between communications equipment and the additional complexity and expense to translate from one communication technique to another.

Another problem with existing radios including original manufactured and those serviced repaired is verifying when a radio meets a predetermined specification for communications. For example when the Federal Communication Commission FCC needs to validate that a radio meets a predetermined specification e.g. noninterference splatter noise out of band noise a method to verify the specification is needed to ensure a radio operates according to regulatory restriction. In other words the FCC needs to verify the performance for different types of radios within predetermined specifications when performing communication operations.

The SDR technology enables flexible radio systems with multi serviced multi standard multi band operation via re configurable and re programmable software instructions. The flexibility of a software defined radio derives from the ability to operate in a multi serviced environment without being constrained to a particular standard but able to offer services in an already standardized or future system on any radio frequency band.

The basic concept is based on the use of a simple hardware platform built using SDRs to enable customers to modify both the network and the end user device to perform different functions at different times. It performs the majority of signal processing in the digital domain using programmable DSPs and hardware support but some signal processing is still done in the analog domain such as in the RF and IF circuits. There are numerous implementations utilizing the SDR architecture. For example one variation has the antenna connected directly to an ADC DAC converter and all signal processing is done digitally using fully programmable high speed DSPs. In general the SDR architecture permits all functions modes and or applications to be reconfigurable via software. Such a system in flexible reduces obsolescence enhances experimentation and brings together the analog and digital environments.

Devices that implement SDR technology are programmable have multiband multimode capability provide simultaneous voice data and video and offer full convergence of digital networks and radio science. Such smart radios configure themselves to perform the communications task requested using different frequency bands modes etc. and even selecting the optimal communications format. The processing system of the radio can include cognitive functions that learn about the operating environment such as other users nearby interference location and elevation to be optimally configured to maximize efficiency and reduce interference.

End users have greater choices and can easily implement pay as you go features. There is device independence with scalable hardware that enhances compatibility on a global scale. The manufacturers and also reap great benefits by reusing stock hardware and having lesser number of models. The network providers simply service offerings without having to support a large number of different protocols and standards.

The SDR concept spans all types of wireless handhelds from cellular phones to feature phones smart phones PDAs computing devices and even smart appliances. The most prominent and immediate area of adoption is in the communications field. Today s digital cellular and PCS networks use a variety of second generation 2G digital technologies for the air interface link between the terminal and network and embrace a number of standards e.g. GPRS HSCSD etc. and protocols WAP pJAVA compact html etc. for accessing the Internet. The divergent 2G standards adopted by large groups of end users around the globe often frustrate business travelers who communicate with their customers or offices while traveling from one network type to another as they cannot use the same device without significant enhancements adjustments to deal with incompatible systems. To add to the complexity the wireless industry is in the throes of migrating to next generations of these standards as well as introducing technologies such as GPS for location services Bluetooth for local communications and the like. SDR offers the ideal solution to accommodate the many standards frequency bands and applications by offering end user devices that can be programmed fixed or enhanced by over the air software. With SDR one would implement a common hardware platform and accommodate these standards and technologies via software modules and firmware.

Due to the theoretical advantages being proposed for SDR several groups from the commercial civil military and academic areas have implemented studies through cooperative research. There is even a forum for SDR that brings together major players from around the globe to attempt to establish a common framework and to cooperatively integrate the concepts into current and evolving commercial standards. The goal of the industry is to lower the development cost and cost of ownership of wireless communication equipment. The US and many international governments and numerous commercial companies are seeking to implement all signal processing for a wireless device in software. Thus any change to the modulation equalization or bandwidth is simply a software upgrade to the system.

SDR enhances and extends the capabilities of current and proposed wireless standards and serves as an enabler of choice as well for Internet concepts and business models in the wireless industry. In each of the major market sectors Commercial Military and Civil SDRs enable new applications as described herein. In particular some of the benefits include True international connectivity Portable Command Station for crisis management Secure encrypted Location awareness Inter agency communications when desired Mission reconfigurability Freedom of Choice applications band protocols MP3AM FMMedia Distribution Interactive betting CD quality music Instant routing of emergency information Options to select communications channel by availability Virtual private network Closed user groups Real time flexibility Media Distribution Portable Command Post Combined delivery of e mail voice mail messages and FAX Integrated radio router computer Browser malleability International connectivity to prevailing networks.

The SDR Forum has been working closely with global standards bodies and other industry groups such as RAST 3GPP and ANSI to develop the standards for bringing SDR to full commercial viability. There are many published materials related to SDR and various designs and proposals of operation however there is still a general disagreement as to the optimal form features or unifying standard. In the article Universal Platform for Software Defined Radio as well as the corresponding patent application WO 02 05444A1 the general background is well described.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 600 discloses a software defined radio which communicates with a base station to receive valid operation licenses and appropriate software configuration instructions in order for the radio to communicate over a plurality of wireless data networks. If the system is unable to obtain sufficient information from a base station prior to losing a current wireless data network connection the radio is not able to dynamically select a new software configuration and wireless data network without directions from the base station.

In U.S. Pat. No. 6 526 110 there is disclosed a device that receives and demodulates digital signals encoded in multiple formats. The apparatus includes multiple processor units and a memory embedded with the processor units and a cache connected to each of the processor units. The cache for communicating between the plurality of processors. The embedded memory can include data and instruction memory. The processor units and memory are configured as a multi mode receiver demodulator front end capable of receiving digitally modulated signals in multiple formats and demodulating the signals in real time in response any one of the multiple formats.

In U.S. Pat. No. 6 181 734 a software defined radio is disclosed in which different waveforms may be utilized. The radio includes a memory in which software for specific waveforms is stored. The radio further includes one or more processors which extract waveform specific software to process information for transmission or reception. All processing of the information between reception or reproduction of speech and transmission and reception of radio frequency signals respectively is performed in software.

Thus there are enormous benefits to the widespread use of SDR technology in portable communications devices. The prior references demonstrate the practicality of using reconfigurable signal processing and computing resources to implement a SDR and there have been some forays into commercialization. However despite all the attempts in the art there has yet to emerge a scheme that fulfils the industry requirements and addresses all the aforementioned problems. What is needed is a system that provides the standardized building blocks for SDR such that the scheme is flexible easy to implements cost effective and alleviates the problems known in the art such that it is accepted by the industry at large.

The present invention has been made in consideration of the aforementioned background. One object of the invention is a self booting software defined radio SDR module. Such a module may be embodied as a PCMCIA Compact Flash or other plug in form factor module. Such a module may also be embodied as an embedded module built in to the host device. The host device can be a cellular telephone personal digital assistant PDA lap top computer or programming device including any mobile device that requires one way or two way communications including mobile transportation processing devices for use with motor vehicles airplanes sailing vessels and trains. In one variation the performance characteristics of the module including its RF carrier frequency instantaneous RF bandwidth carrier modulation and demodulation modem symbol coding and decoding codec security and network protocol can be altered and saved by means of computer software transferred to the module from a host device host .

One embodiment includes a self booting software defined radio SDR module that interfaces with a host system wherein the module comprises a modulation demodulation section with a stored run time kernel. There is a processing unit on the modulation demodulation section executes the run time kernel. An interface mechanism couples the host system to the module wherein the host system provides a set of reconfiguration information. A front end unit receives communications signals and processes the communications signals using the reconfiguration information. Further variations of this embodiment include a memory unit wherein the memory unit is selected from the group comprising FLASH memory and RAM. There can also be a multi port crossbar coupled to the front end unit which can establish a high speed fabric. While the module can communicate with plug and play it can also be embedded and communicate with the host on a bus. The self booting software defined radio SDR module may be comprised at least partially of reconfigurable logic devices.

Another embodiment includes a software reconfigurable radio wireless module employing SCA architecture comprising at least one processor unit at least one memory unit coupled to the processor unit by a control bus a plurality of reconfigurable elements an interface mechanism for transferring reconfiguration information from a host device to the reconfigurable elements at least one radio frequency interface block and at least one multi port reconfigurable crossbar switch with bi directional ports coupling to the radio frequency interface block and to the processor unit.

Yet a further embodiment is a switched fabric software defined radio module comprising at least two reconfigurable logic device on the module wherein the reconfigurable logic devices are each comprising a front end unit for transmission and reception of information signals a processing unit a memory section at least one crossbar switch and a fabric interface wherein the processing unit the memory section and the crossbar switch are coupled to the fabric interface. The switched fabric may be configured as a ring.

The present invention is a programmable logic device which includes an integrated circuit having therein a plurality of logic blocks configured substantially in a plane the logic blocks being organized into a plurality of logic groups. The device further includes a plurality of logic block endpoints internal to the integrated circuit each of the logic block endpoints being at least connectible to at least one of the logic blocks. the device also includes a plurality of primary switched fabrics embedded within the integrated circuit and offset from the plane of the logic blocks each of the primary switched fabrics being configured so as to traverse at least some of the logic blocks each of the primary switched fabrics providing non contentious interconnection between at least some of the endpoints at least connectable to logic blocks within at least one of the logic groups. In addition the device includes a secondary switched fabric embedded within the integrated circuit and offset from the plane of the logic blocks the secondary switched fabric providing non contentious interconnection between at least some of the primary switched fabrics.

In some embodiments the secondary switched fabric is offset from a plane in which at least one of the primary switched fabrics is substantially configured. And in various embodiments the secondary switched fabric provides non contentious interconnection to at least one logic block endpoint.

In certain embodiments the device includes a plurality of secondary switched fabrics embedded within the integrated circuit each of the secondary switched fabrics providing non contentious interconnection between a plurality of connection points each connection point being one of a logic block end point and a connection to another of the switched fabrics.

In embodiments at least one of the embedded switched fabrics comprises a crossbar switch. In some embodiments at least one of the embedded switched fabrics is configurable. In other embodiments at least one of the embedded switched fabrics is connectible to external devices. And in still other embodiments at least one of the embedded switched fabrics is connectible to an embedded processor.

In various embodiments at least one of the embedded switched fabrics is connectible to an embedded memory. In some embodiments at least one of the embedded switched fabrics is connectible to an I O device. In other embodiments at least one of the embedded switched fabrics is connectible to file storage. And in certain embodiments at least one of the embedded switched fabrics is connectible to a multimedia device.

In embodiments at least one of the logic blocks is a field programmable gate array FPGA . In some embodiments at least one of the logic blocks is a complex programmable logic device CPLD . In other embodiments at least one of the logic blocks is a system on chip SOC device. And in certain embodiments at least one of the logic blocks is a general purpose processing unit.

Various embodiments further include at least one I O point at least one of the embedded switched fabrics further providing interconnection between at least one of the logic block end points and the at least one I O point for inter chip and external communication. In some of these embodiments at least one of the I O points is an embedded serial transceiver. And in other of these embodiments at least one of the I O points is an embedded Ethernet MAC Block.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

As noted herein the SDR architecture is based upon a high level generic model with specific functional blocks connected via open interface standards recommendations. The SDR architecture supports a plurality of domains including hand held mobile and base station or fixed site . Software is implemented by controlling the characteristics of equipment device subsystems through hierarchical and peer level modules that support scalability and flexible extensions of applications. Modularity allows implementation of software applications within open systems and between the modules are more defined interfaces. Within a module the developer implements functionality in the most effective way for the particular application.

One aspect of the present invention is a self booting software defined radio SDR module that may be embodied as a PCMCIA Compact Flash or other plug in form factor module. The performance characteristics of the module including its RF carrier frequency instantaneous RF bandwidth carrier modulation and demodulation modem symbol coding and decoding codec security and network protocol may be altered and saved by means of computer software transferred to the module from a host device such as a cellular telephone PDA lap top computer or other programming device.

Referring to which illustrates a dual function radio DFR chipset that is compliant with the SCA architecture. The chipset incorporates SDR technology and is self booting and can be a plug n play personal computer PC card. The module may be inserted into and removed from a host or otherwise built in embedded with the host at the time of manufacture or service.

The antenna in this embodiment is a single antenna for transmission and reception. The antenna is coupled to a front end unit that performs the RF functions involved with frequency conversion and filtering via the RF IF converters and filters . The RF IF section is coupled to a digital receiver synthesizer for processing of signals between analog and digital formats as known in the art. The RF IF section and the digital receiver synthesizer are both coupled to a control bus such as a PCI bus.

The front end section communicates with the modulation demodulation section through a high speed fabric for information exchange. In this embodiment the modulation demodulation modem section comprises a SCA runtime kernel a programmable adaptive modem and memory such as RAM and Flash . The elements of the modem demodulation section are all coupled to the control bus . In an alternative embodiment the function of the high speed fabric and control bus may be performed by a single physical bus.

The high speed fabric also couples to a security chipset for the exchange of information. The security chipset also is coupled to the control bus for control data. The I O chipset also couples to the security chipset which in turn also couples to the PC chipset and the human machine interface HMI . The PC chipset generally comprises some multi media processing memory and a processing unit . Further operational details are provided herein.

When inserted into a host the module adds the capability of multiple radio types determined by the module s programming. In some embodiments this may be a software defined single function radio dual function radio DFR or multi function radio. In some embodiments the module possesses sufficient hardware and software resources to simultaneously instantiate a plurality of different radio signal types waveforms such as IEEE 802.11 Wireless Local Area Network WLAN and Bluetooth BT . In another embodiment a GPS receiver is simultaneously instantiated with a cellular telephone or personal communication system PCS mobile terminal transceiver for GPS enabled emergency 9 1 1 communication.

Referring to the functional flow for a multi mode radio is diagrammatically depicted. In some embodiments this may be a software defined single function radio dual function radio DFR or multi function radio. In one embodiment the chipset or module is coupled to a host device such as a cellular phone laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA and other processing devices such as those in transportation applications. The coupling between the host and the module can be accomplished in numerous methods as detailed herein. The host system has certain requirements such as some processing unit such as a microprocessor or central processing unit CPU that can operate on programs. There needs to be some internal component interface such as a PCI bus for data transfer and passing of control and status. Some internal memory is also required such as host RAM for temporary storage and additional memory for stored programs can be utilized. There is generally an external I O connection such as HMI for example keyboard display microphone speaker or Internet connectivity. Finally there needs to be some interface mechanism for coupling the host system with the module which in this embodiment is a plug and play hot swap PCI adapter .

The programming of the SDR module is accomplished in cooperation with the SCA Run Time Kernel RTK . The host CPU executes an application program to transfer source code for programming the module . The source code for the module can be stored in host random access memory on disk memory or downloaded from a network file server interfacing to the external I O adapter . The host CPU establishes a communication path with the module via the host PCI bus through the Plug and Play PnP hot swap PCI adapters .

It should be readily apparent that there are various types of hosts for which the present invention would be adaptable. The module can also be integrated into the host or coupled to the host by some other means such as wired or even wireless.

The components of the self booting SDR module vary according to the specific application and requirements. For example a laptop computer can be incorporated with a built in antenna that can be coupled to the module via the host system and include numerous peripheral devices and capabilities with the increased space and power of the laptop. The laptop antennas would enable multiple modes of operation and a selection for optimization. For the SDR module integrated into a cell phone or PDA the number of peripherals and capabilities would be reduced due to the size weight power factors.

Typically the PCI adapter RISC CPU crossbar adapter crossbar switch reconfigurable transceivers adaptive receiver and the transceivers are embedded within a programmable logic device such as a field programmable gate array FPGA . In one implementation the transceivers employ a serial low voltage differential signaling LVDS physical PHY layer. These transceivers may be implemented on a Xilinx Virtex II Pro device such as part number XC2V7 or a comparable device. The crossbar switches of the described embodiment are high speed serial switches and allow for interfacing between other processor the crossbar switch itself as well as various I O internal communications. In a typical implementation the cores for the Switch Fabric Adapter and the Crossbar Switch are configured in the FPGA using VHDL or Verilog firmware programming. While the FPGA is one implementation it is within the scope of the present invention to incorporate any reconfigurable device. Likewise the use of serial crossbar switches is for illustrative purpose and is not to be deemed as a limiting factor.

The module may include fixed non reconfigurable cores for the PCI bus adapter the reduced instruction set RISC central processing unit CPU and the four low voltage differential signaling LVDS transceivers .

The Reconfigurable Transceiver and Reconfigurable Transceiver and the Adaptive Processor are programmed in the FPGA based on the characteristics of the waveforms and the adaptive processing needed to simultaneously implement the waveforms.

Software programs typically stored on the module such as boot code needed for module initialization from power up are stored in FLASH memory . The boot code includes a minimum Software Communications Architecture SCA run time kernel that can include a multiplicity of software components such as a Java Virtual Machine VM operating system micro kernel basic input output system BIOS CORBA object request broker ORB or Java remote method invocation RMI application programming interfaces API device drivers power on self test POST and diagnostic prognostic functions such as IEEE 1149.1 boundary scan support and thermal sensor support.

In one embodiment the module CPU may be a Java connected device configuration CDC or connection limited device configuration CLDC hardware stack which executes Java byte code as native mode instructions thereby providing accelerated Java operation and reduced run time memory requirements for the RTK SCA core framework CF waveform software and other software which are stored as Java byte code.

In one embodiment the module RTK provides application factories application programming interfaces API and drivers for a plurality of SDR and SCA standards developed by a plurality of organizations including but not limited to the U.S. Joint Tactical Radio System JTRS Joint Program Office JPO the Object Management Group OMG and the Software Defined Radio Forum SDRF . This plurality of SDR standards may include an SCA reference implementation SCARI a platform independent model PIM a platform specific model PSM a plurality of middleware platforms including but not restricted to Java CORBA PalmOS Windows CE and .NET a hardware abstraction layer HAL API a plurality of multimedia APIs including but not limited to Microsoft DirectX a plurality of software download APIs including but not limited to the SDR Forum Software Download API or a plurality of security APIs including but not limited to the JTRS SCA 2.2 Security Annex. The RTK can be reconfigured by software download to comply as needed with changes in the standards.

The device configuration and download of waveforms applications is described in further detail herein. Once the SCA RTK has been booted the module is ready to accept firmware programming and software downloads to configure various components of the module including the crossbar switch software defined radio SDR transceiver functions and adaptive processing functions . These downloads may be in the form of Verilog or VHSIC Hardware Definition Language VHDL or other cores for FPGA or previously compiled executable code for microprocessors and digital signal processors. In one embodiment a CDC or CLDC processor core optimized for the Java language may also accept software downloads of Java class files byte code .

Each different radio waveform has a unique configuration of FPGA gates and registers needed for its instantiation including radio transmitter and receiver functions such as baseband carrier modulation demodulation multiple access multiplexing demultiplexing for Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA and transmission security methods such as spread spectrum spreading despreading or frequency hopping de hopping. Also adaptive processing algorithms for antenna diversity combining adaptive interference mitigation beam forming etc. instantiated on the adaptive processor are also dependent on the waveforms instantiated on the reconfigurable transceiver . In addition the data flow between processor elements is also a function of the waveform type and algorithm. Thus reconfiguration of waveforms on reconfigurable transceiver generally requires reconfiguration of the adaptive processing algorithms on the adaptive processor as well as reconfiguration of the 8 port crossbar switch to provide the necessary data flow paths.

In one embodiment the firmware and software download methods comply with a plurality of industry standards and recommendations including but not limited to the API and download standards of the Global Mobile GLOMO Radio and Antenna API SCA Software Defined Radio Forum SDRF and Object Management Group OMG . The source code is validated after download by the module. Executable code for default transceiver waveforms and other boot software may be stored on the file storage of the host device or may optionally be stored on non volatile memory such as Flash RAM on the self booting module which provides the ability to instantiate a default radio configuration in the event of a system crash possibly caused by a faulty waveform or adaptive processing download of faulty software.

Transceiver operation in one embodiment proceeds as follows. Once the software defined transceivers adaptive processing unit and crossbar switch have been programmed the module may operates as a single or dual channel dual mode radio module. One possible configuration is simultaneous operation of Bluetooth Specification 1.1 and Wireless Local Area Networks WLAN IEEE 802.11 waveforms instantiated on transceivers . Since these two waveforms operate in the same frequency bands a multiplicity of means to mitigate interference between the two waveforms may also be performed by downloading appropriate software to the adaptive processor and crossbar switch .

Referring to which illustrates one embodiment for coupling the antenna to the module . In this embodiment the SDR module uses two RF interface blocks to receive and transmit two signals along two RF signal paths as described in further detail herein. In this embodiment the module includes two radio frequency RF receivers two RF transmitters two antenna elements two diplexers among the other elements known to those in the art. Various functionality is described herein and includes module programming and configuration download and functional operation of the communications devices once programmed.

The SDR module Port RF is connected to the serial digital interface of a digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a Diplexer and antenna . In like fashion SDR module Port RF is connected to the serial interface of digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a Diplexer and antenna . In this embodiment the SDR module ports ADJ and ADJ are unused but allow for system expansion.

The RF interface blocks can be separate cards in a system coupled to a host system or integrated with the host system. For example a laptop computer can have an antenna element disposed throughout the lid to allow for greater surface area for reception and improved signal quality.

An alternative embodiment shown in is a dual channel cellular telephone with diversity antennas wherein a single self booting SDR module is connected to two sets of diversity transceivers having four RF transmit and receive signals. Thus up to four RF signals may be received and generated for the dual channel diversity radio.

In this alternative embodiment SDR module Port RF is connected to the serial digital interface of a digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a diplexer and antenna . For the first diversity channel SDR module Port ADJ is connected to the serial digital interface of a digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a diplexer and antenna .

In a similar fashion SDR module Port RF is connected to the serial interface of digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a diplexer and antenna . For the second diversity channel SDR module Port ADJ is connected to the serial digital interface of a digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a diplexer and antenna .

Referring to which is a further embodiment for the self booting dual channel SDR used to implement a four element array using two SDR modules and four sets of antennas transmitters and receivers. In this embodiment SDR module Port RF of the first SDR module is connected to the serial digital interface of a digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a diplexer and antenna . SDR module Port RF is connected to the serial interface of digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a diplexer and antenna .

A second SDR module is coupled to the first SDR module wherein second SDR module Port RF is connected to the serial digital interface of a digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a diplexer and antenna . Second SDR module Port RF is connected to the serial digital interface of a digital radio transmitter Tx and digital radio receiver Rx which are connected to a diplexer and antenna .

The crossbars of the two SDR modules are daisy chained together by connecting either first SDR module Port ADJ or first SDR module Port ADJ to either the second SDR module Port ADJ or second SDR module Port ADJ . Optionally the unused Port of the first SDR module such as ADJ may be connected to the unused second SDR module Port ADJ obtaining a ring network. It is also known in the art to incorporate a serializer deserializer SERDES to allow for parallel to serial and serial to parallel processing for the bus connection.

Those skilled in the trade will readily acknowledge that additional SDR modules transceivers and antennas may be daisy chained together in a plurality of fashions obtaining arbitrarily large antenna arrays in this fashion. For example when operating as a phased array any one of a plurality of protocols may be employed with the crossbar switch and LVDS transceivers including but not restricted to proprietary protocols TCP IP serial RapidIO Infiniband or Gigabit Ethernet.

Referring to and referencing which illustrates the self booting SDR Run Time Kernel. In one embodiment the SDR module includes a minimum basic input output system BIOS built in functions programmed into the SDR module and stored entirely on the module s internal file systems without need to access files from an external system such as the host s disk drive. The minimum BIOS is the BIOS needed to deploy a simple software defined wireless communication devices on a public private or tactical wireless service such as the amateur band Citizens Band family talk or first responder emergency services. Since the BIOS is minimum by definition the BIOS must be both extensible and scalable. Extensions to accommodate additional security multi media quality of service QoS or other features may be added to the described SCA.

The BIOS contains multiple run time software modules. There is a Hardware Abstraction Layer HAL manager which provides a method for providing run time hardware abstraction for general purpose processors GPP application specific integrated circuits ASIC field programmable gate arrays FPGA digital signal processors DSP and other hardware for SDR such as those under development by the SDR Forum and other industry organizations. With HAL SDR applications are computing platform neutral. This function interacts through the BIOS with the module s resource manager to the HAL software on the remote host CPU not shown or network server via the network interface not shown . In one embodiment the module specific hardware resource information is based on an open standard for HAL developed by industry organizations such as the SDR Forum or OMG. In an alternative embodiment the HAL standard is a de facto standard for wireless devices established by manufacturers such as Sun Microsystems for Java Palm Computing for Palm OS or Microsoft for Windows CE and .NET.

There is a Resource manager which provides information to the BIOS about the characteristics and availability of module resources identifies the resource as unavailable when allocated or failed and identifies the resource as free when unallocated or de allocated.

A File services software module provides minimum file management to read write and erase files allocate and de allocate memory on file devices such as flash memory and RAM on the SDR module based on file operations such as read write and erase and perform garbage collection or memory re organization of file devices on the SDR module.

An additional software module is the Security services . This function manages hardware and software security kernels within the SDR module and provides minimum security services to the BIOS . In one embodiment security manager maintains a security kernel version number and validates security checksum requests from the POST Application Download and Application Factory functions for verification and validation V V process to confirm integrity of SDR downloads and applications. This function inspects and confirms the integrity of the SDR module s current programming.

The POST manager function initiates and manages the power on self test POST functions upon system boot up or upon a command by the module controller to initiate a self test. The POST manager receives resource configuration characteristics from the BIOS and manages self test functions via the BIOS .

There is an Application downloader that controls downloading of SDR reconfiguration software via a download application programming interface API including over the air OTA downloads and confirm security integrity of the download. A run time method of initiating transporting inspecting verifying and deploying reconfiguration source or binary code which may include over the air OTA code distribution. The download function should conform to one or more industry download API s . Additional functions can include checking for LAB certification e.g. UL WINLAB and calculation verification of an integrity code such as a checksum for downloaded data.

The Application factory is a piece of the SCA Core Framework function implemented on the SDR module. In one embodiment SCA applications such as waveform class files in Java are pre compiled by a master application factory running on the host CPU and launched by the application factory on the SDR module. The application factory launches the application using resources file services and security services through the BIOS . In another embodiment the application factory employs middleware such as a lightweight object request broker ORB or Java remote method invocation RMI . In an alternative embodiment the application factory is replaced by a container application such as a micro browser used to host and launch remotely compiled methods such as Java applets .

There is an external interface module that is responsible for all external interfaces to the module. In one embodiment the interfaces include a plug and play PnP interface between the module and the host system and four serial digital interfaces to digital transceivers and or adjacent modules. The PnP interface manager of the host provides conformance to one of a plurality of PnP industry specifications including but not limited to Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 Firewire depending on the type of PnP interface connector used. The external interface is also responsible for distributing system clock timing signals over the PnP and LVDS interfaces.

Referring again to in operation the programming of the SDR module is accomplished by employing the SCA Run Time Kernel RTK . An application program is executed by the host CPU to download source code for programming the module which may be stored in host random access memory on disk interfacing with the host CPU via the host PCI bus or on a network file server not shown . The host CPU establishes a communication path with the module s RISC CPU via the host PCI bus the security module the Plug and Play PnP hot swap PCI adapters PCI bus and PCI adapter .

Software programs according to one embodiment which must be permanently stored on the module such as boot code needed for module initialization from power up are stored in FLASH memory . The boot code includes a minimum Software Communications Architecture SCA run time kernel which may include a multiplicity of software components such as a POSIX compliant operating system micro kernel basic input output system BIOS object request broker ORB hardware abstraction layer HAL application programming interfaces API SDR download API radio control API antenna control API FPGA programming API power on self test POST and diagnostic prognostic functions such as IEEE 1149.1 boundary scan support and thermal sensor support.

The download of waveform and adaptive processing is accomplished as follows. Once the SCA RTK has been booted the module is ready to accept software downloads to configure various components of the module including the crossbar switch software defined radio SDR transceiver functions and adaptive processing functions . These downloads may be in the form of Verilog or VHSIC Hardware Definition Language VHDL intellectual property IP cores for FPGA. Each different radio waveform has a unique configuration of FPGA gates and registers needed for its instantiation. Also adaptive processing features such as antenna diversity combining adaptive interference mitigation beam forming etc. instantiated on adaptive processor are dependent on the waveforms instantiated on the reconfigurable transceivers . Thus reconfiguration of waveforms on reconfigurable transceivers generally require reconfiguration of the adaptive processing algorithms on adaptive processor as well as reconfiguration of the crossbar switch to provide the necessary data flow paths.

In one embodiment the software downloads for the FPGA comply with interface standards set by the SCA and the download API standard established by the Software Defined Radio Forum SDRF . The source code is validated after download by the module. Source code for default transceiver waveforms may optionally be stored on Flash RAM which provides the ability to instantiate a default radio configuration in the event of a system crash.

Once the software defined transceivers adaptive processing unit and crossbar switch have been programmed the module operates as a conventional non SDR two channel dual mode radio module. One possible configuration is simultaneous operation of Bluetooth Specification 1.1 and Wireless Local Area Networks WLAN IEEE 802.11 waveforms instantiated on transceivers . Since these two waveforms operate in the same frequency bands a multiplicity of means to mitigate interference between the two waveforms have been developed. One or more of these means may be instantiated by downloading appropriate software to the adaptive processor and crossbar switch . In some instantiations up to four RF signals may be received and generated for the dual mode radio. In one instantiation RF and RF may be used to receive and transmit a diversity signal using two antennas and two RF signal paths to transceiver by way of LVDS transceivers crossbar switch and adaptive processor . In the same instantiation RF and RF may be similarly used to receive and transmit a diversity signal using two antennas and two RF signal paths to transceiver by way of LVDS transceivers crossbar switch and adaptive processor .

In other instantiations such as IS 95 CDMA or GSM EDGE the four antennas and RF chains may be organized as a four element array used to support two independent CDMA transceiver channels simultaneously from the same device. In such an instantiation the four RF may be used to receive and transmit four signals using four antennas and four RF signal paths to transceivers by way of LVDS transceivers crossbar switch and adaptive processor with digital beamforming being performed by the adaptive processor .

When power is applied to the module the module initiates a power on self test POST and initiates a self booting sequence of a Software Communications Architecture SCA run time kernel RTK . In one embodiment the SCA RTK is implemented as a core of an embedded processor on a reconfigurable logic device such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or programmable logic device PLD .

The embedded processor s instruction set registers and data flow paths and input output ports support the needs of the SCA RTK. In one embodiment implementation is reduced to the minimum number of gates and registers required to support the needs of a minimum SCA RTK minimizing the cost size and power required for its implementation.

The module in one embodiment permanently stores the basic input output system software BIOS needed by the SCA RTK using an application specific integrated circuit ASIC FPGA PLD battery operated random access memory RAM FLASH RAM programmable read only memory PROM or some variant of one of these devices and in one embodiment the BIOS characteristics.

As described herein the crossbars of the SDR modules allow a plurality of devices resident on the FPGA to be coupled together and obtain a variety of configurations. There is some art discussing the use of switched fabric connectivity between a number of FPGAs. However the implementation of switched fabric internal to the FPGA for the SDR is yet another aspect of the present invention. Referring to and two schemes for internal coupling is shown. shows the conventional bus connection having a single bus interconnected to multiple devices on the same FPGA wherein all the devices N share the same physical layer . The Devices N in this description refer to such things as memory processor I O multimedia and file storage. While the present invention can interconnect devices in such a manner the crossbar switching and design allow other options.

Referring to a 6 port crossbar configuration coupling six devices is depicted. It should be understood that number of devices depends upon a number of factors for a particular application and the technology and any reference to a particular number is for purposes of explanation and should not to be construed as a limitation for the implementation described herein. The ring connection between the six devices Devices Devices of the programmable logic device or FPGA shows that each device is a bi directional port. In one embodiment for a LVDS serial system the ports are 4 wire bi directional ports using the LVDS PHY physical layer. The ring configuration allows three pairs of simultaneous connections as described herein. The switched fabric using this 6 port crossbar is thus three times faster than the conventional bus of . And coupling crossbars together in larger networks allows even greater performance increases.

There is some art related to a traditional pipeline architecture using a dual port RAM DRAM and cache to provide communications between processors in SDR systems. This scheme has certain speed limitations as opposed to the switched fabric implementation described herein but does not offer changeable interconnections for multiple SDR modules.

A flowchart for one embodiment is shown in illustrating a top level processing perspective of the self booting process the loading of a default waveform and the download verification storage and loading of a new waveform. The start commences with some event such as power up that triggers the module CPU to execute the run time kernel and commence execution of the CPU power on self test POST . There is initial check of certain criteria which would indicate some internal errors or other problems that would prevent the device from functioning. The built in tests BIT perform verification of those components that are testable and accessible. If the verifications step fails an error report of the failure is reported and processing ends . If the verification step passes processing continues on to run boundary scan POST . Once again there is a verification check and failure results in logging the error and end of processing . If the boundary scan passes the next step is the checksum and the security checksum is validated . A failure is processed as already described. If the checksum test is successful the processing checks to identify a PnP interface . The interface detection is verified and failure commences as described. If there is a PnP interface detected the system tries to establish a host interface and perform certain functions such as loading SCA BIOS and loading the default waveforms and passing the hardware abstraction layer HAL values identifying the hardware resource characteristics and availability to the host . The passing of the HAL values checks whether a download is available . If there is no download available the system loops until a download is available. If a download is available a new waveform is downloaded and verified . The verification test may result in a failure which proceeds to the failure route of logging and reporting the error and ending . If the verification test is positive the new application is stored and the new waveform is loaded. Finally the events and data are logged and the channel is ready for processing.

One application which may use the system of the present invention is a Dual Function Radio DFR or Multi Mode Radio for Wireless Local Area Network LAN and Bluetooth. The dual function chipset may employ both Wireless Local Area Networks WLAN and Bluetooth in one integrated device. The development of a dual mode Bluetooth WLAN radio node guarantees connectivity and operation in commercial and military environments. The device may further employ smart radio methods to provide the intelligence to know when to communicate on demand to a WLAN or Bluetooth network with no operator intervention with the obvious criteria of operating collocated with no concern of interference and its detrimental effects on communications. The device is also capable of coordinating and transferring information from a WLAN network to a Bluetooth network. WLAN and Bluetooth technology provide for the rapid setup and tear down of communication networks and this capability could be of aid greatly in times of national emergency when the commercial network infrastructure has been damaged.

Advantages of the SDR approach of the present invention include interoperability and the ability to reconfigure the chipsets to accommodate changes in commercial segments. It also enables the addition and modification of interference mitigation algorithms including co site and co channel interference cancellation methods and cross layer protocol stack optimization methods such as adaptive medium access control MAC . The present SDR module can be used as a reference design and test platform for demonstrations of waveforms protocol stacks and interference mitigation methods

There are numerous examples and variations associated with the present invention. With respect to FPGA s the Xilinx Virtex II Pro part number XC2VP7 may be employed to implement the self booting SDR module which are embedded within a field programmable gate array FPGA . The XC2VP7 device contains eight transceivers used to provide gigabit I O between the digital transceivers and modems and between the SDIC and its host device. It also contains a PowerPC 32 bit RISC CPU that can be programmed for Smart Radio functionality. The XC2VP7 device comes in a package as small as 23 23 mm when packaged in the FG456 flat pack form factor. This small package fits well in PCMCIA packages and contains 248 user available I O pins.

The crossbar switch core for the FPGA can be from many sources including the Xilinx Crossbar Switch core which is a programmable parameterizable custom design implementing digital cross point switching functions on Xilinx Virtex II and Virtex II Pro FPGA. As described herein one of the implementations of the present invention employs the crossbar switch for use in digital cross connects between processors and I O nodes.

In one implementation the Java processor core hardware stack for the embedded CPU in the FPGA may be configured as a connected device configuration CDC or connection limited device configuration CLDC hardware Java stack that is a processor which substitutes for a Java virtual machine using a specialized RISC processor which executes Java byte code in Java Class files as native mode instructions. An open source core available for Xilinx and Altera FPGA s is JOP.

One implementation uses a self booting RTK that provides interoperability with the SCA. An open source SCA Reference Implementation SCARI can be used as is known to those in the art. One implementation employs Java 2 Standard Edition J2SE and CORBA 2.2. In a further implementation the RTK includes a CDC or CLDC hardware Java 2 stack on which SCA methods may be invoked.

One or more waveforms may be determined by a transfer of software from a host download and stored within the module using a reconfigurable logic or memory device such as FLASH random access memory RAM . In one embodiment the method of downloading and storing waveforms complies with a download application programming interface API standard such as the Software Communication Architecture SCA .

In one embodiment two or more waveforms may be stored in such a way that the module may be rapidly switched from one stored waveform to another switcher . In a further embodiment the switcher method to select stored waveforms complies with a switcher API standard such as the SCA. When inserted into a Plug and Play PnP aware device the module supports the host s PnP configuration.

In operation one or more waveforms may be determined by a transfer of software from a host download and stored within the module using a reconfigurable logic or memory device such as FLASH random access memory RAM . In one embodiment the method of downloading and storing waveforms complies with a download application programming interface API standard such as the Software Communication Architecture SCA . In another embodiment two or more waveforms may be stored in such a way that the module may be rapidly switched from one stored waveform to another switcher . In a further embodiment the switcher method to select stored waveforms complies with a switcher API standard such as the SCA.

Another implementation is to provide ease of operation and when inserted into a Plug and Play PnP aware device the module supports the host s PnP configuration. When power is applied to the module the module initiates a power on self test POST and initiates a self booting sequence of a Software Communications Architecture SCA run time kernel RTK . In one embodiment the SCA RTK is implemented as a core of an embedded processor on a reconfigurable logic device such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or programmable logic device PLD . The embedded processor s instruction set registers and data flow paths and input output ports support the needs of the SCA RTK. In another embodiment implementation is reduced to the minimum number of gates and registers required to support the needs of a minimum SCA RTK minimizing the cost size and power required for its implementation.

The module permanently stores the basic input output system software BIOS needed by the SCA RTK using an application specific integrated circuit ASIC FPGA PLD battery operated random access memory RAM FLASH RAM programmable read only memory PROM or some variant of one of these devices and in one embodiment the BIOS characteristics.

The user of the host device may select one or more stored waveforms for instantiation in the SDR module by actuation of a single button or plurality of buttons. The button or plurality of buttons may be either actual physical buttons as on a radio handset or user interface control panel or virtual buttons on a host graphical user interface GUI . In one embodiment the radio button actuation interacts with the SDR module using an industry standard API such as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Administration DARPA Global Mobile GLOMO Radio API.

It is taught in and the discussion above that a SDR Module of the invention may be implemented as a programmable logic device PLD such as an FPGA. It is taught that a crossbar adapter and switch may be embedded in the PLD. It discloses that the crossbar may be configured using VHDL. It is readily apparent that the invention teaches that the crossbar is an internal part of the PLD and may not be made from reconfigurable gates but is instead made as one or more of the embedded processing elements. shows two SDR modules and . These modules are each individual PLD s FPGAs in this instance. These modules each have an internal 8 port crossbar. It is well illustrated and clearly understood that the crossbars can be used to interconnect this device with other FPGAs or external devices such as the TX .

Extending on the above description solely for clarification and adding no new subject matter it is readily understood by those of skill that devices such as the Xilinx Virtex II Pro FPGA are highly dense devices and also examples of a system on chip SOC which includes reconfigurable FPGA slices or gates as well as I O devices such as Rocket I O transceivers or Gigabit Ethernet PHY layer transceivers and general purpose processors such as the PowerPC.

Referring to new the traditional FPGA or similar device uses an internal routing architecture consisting of busses wires connected by switches . The FPGA logic blocks or gates connect to the busses. When complex devices are constructed using multiple gates or logic blocks it may not be possible to locate the logic elements of the device in close proximity to each other and a means of non blocking signal routing must be found. Because the busses typically can only switch only one pair wise connection at a time AND a non blocking method must be found point to point routing paths connecting logic blocks are constructed using additional reconfigurable gates. As the percentage of reconfigurable elements such as gates increases the routing paths can become lengthy and circuitous. These lengthy paths delay the propagation of the electrical signals within the FPGA consume additional gates and slow down the effective processor speed of the FPGA devices. This is well understood in the art.

In devices such as the Xilinx Virtex II Pro clusters or slices of FPGA gates allow optimized interconnections and faster operation within a local cluster or slice. However as in software defined radios and other complex processing systems the functionality implemented within the FPGA SOC extend well beyond the ability of single slices or clusters . Thus in complex SOC implementations clusters of clusters or cells have been developed. Further the largely two dimensional slices employing 2 dimensional bus and switch architectures shown in for interconnecting internal components within complex FPGA and SOC devices used for self booting SDR devices and other complex processing units are increasingly being supplanted by 3 dimensional bus and switch architectures.

Referring to new which is provided solely for clarification to the prior description and adds no new subject matter as designs for FPGA and SOC become more complex and dense as required by the self booting SDR the conventional switches at the interstices of the 3 dimensional bus architecture wires can be replaced by the same type of non blocking crossbar switch such as a 6 port device as shown in for better performance faster speed and lower power consumption. A skilled practitioner of the art can easily see from what is disclosed in and described above that such a switched fabric bus architecture can be also used in the current and next generations of field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD complex programmable logic device CPLD system on chip SOC and cell computing devices whether it is used to implement the instant self booting SDR module or some other complex high speed processing device.

Such an embedded fabric structure can be added on top of an existing reconfigurable processing element or PLD providing internal endpoints where logical processing units can attach. This can be a hard wired structure layered on top of reconfigurable elements. It can also be a dynamic fabric made up of reconfigurable elements layered on top of a device such as but not limited to an FGPA. As described above some of these endpoints can be extended to outside of the device allowing interconnections to external devices such as other processing units IO memory and even other reconfigurable devices. For example it would allow a processing component in one reconfigurable device to communicate in a non blocking fashion with processing components in another reconfigurable device. Chips with such architecture are scalable and extensible.

Referring to new which is provided solely for clarification to the prior description and adds no new subject matter in some embodiments the logic blocks are organized in logic groups and a plurality of primary switched fabrics is included whereby each of the primary switched fabrics provides interconnectivity between logic blocks within at least one of the logic groups. The primary switched fabrics include fabric end points and one or more secondary switched fabrics provide interconnection between the primary switched fabrics by connecting to the fabric end points . In some of these embodiments the primary switched fabrics are configured substantially in one or more planes and the secondary switched fabrics are offset from some or all of the planes of the primary switched fabrics in addition to being offset from the plane of the logic blocks. In certain embodiments the secondary switched fabrics provide interconnection to logic block end points and or to I O points as well as to other switched fabrics.

The foregoing description of examples and embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

