---

title: Device-to-device call disposition
abstract: Device-to-device call disposition is provided. When a call is received at a first telecommunications device, a determination may be made as to whether a second device has been designated to receive a notification of the inbound call and to allow for call disposition at the second device. At the second device, the user may be notified of the incoming call at the first device, and the user may be provided with a number of options for disposing of the incoming call. While the user is positioned at a location having a wireline or wireless communications device associated with the location, and the user receives a call on his/her personal wireless device, a call to the personal wireless device may be automatically routed to the wireline or wireless device associated with the user's location (e.g., home or office).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08411834&OS=08411834&RS=08411834
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08411834
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100427
---
With the advent of modern telecommunications systems users often receive and send communications with multiple communications devices. A typical user may utilize a wireline or wireless telephone at home and or work and one or more other communications devices such as wireless telephones personal digital assistant PDA and the like while away from home and or work. With such multiple device communications environments users often receive important calls at a receiving device while they are away from the receiving device. For example a user may receive a number of important calls at a home wireline telephone while the user is away at work and accessible via his her wireless or work wireline telephone. On the other hand while the user is at home or work he she may receive one or more calls to his her wireless telephone. For example often a user may be at home or work utilizing a home or business wireline or wireless telephone only to receive a call on his her personal wireless telephone. Such situations are inefficient cumbersome and even aggravating because the user might not desire to shut down the personal wireless telephone but nonetheless would rather not receive calls to both the personal wireless telephone and the home or work wireline or wireless telephone.

Embodiments of the present invention solve the above and other problems by providing device to device call disposition. According to one embodiment when a call is received at a wireline or wireless telephone positioned at a home office or other location a determination may be made as to whether a second device such as a wireless telephone PDA or other wireline telephone device has been designated to receive a notification of the inbound call and to allow for call disposition at the second device. At the second device the user may be notified of the incoming call at the first device and the user may be provided with a number of options for disposing of the incoming call.

According to another embodiment while the user is positioned at a location having a wireline or wireless communications device associated with the location and the user receives a call on his her personal wireless device a call to the personal wireless device may be automatically routed to the wireline or wireless device associated with the user s location e.g. home or office .

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to device to device call disposition. When a call is directed to a user at a first device such as a wireline or wireless telephone positioned at a home office or other location while the user is away the user may be notified of the incoming call at a second device for example a wireless or wireline device available at the user s present location. A number of call processing options may be enabled to allow the user to dispose of the incoming call from the second device. Alternatively if the user is positioned at the location of the first device e.g. home or office and the user receives a call directed to his her wireless device e.g. personal wireless telephone or PDA the incoming call may be processed at and or routed to the first device so that the user does not have to deal with the call coming into his her personal wireless device.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

Referring now to wireless communication services are provided by various service provider companies through a wireless network. As is known to those skilled in the art wireless networks services may consist of but not be limited to cellular towers base stations one or more wireless telephone switching offices hereafter referred to as MTSO and an application server . As should be appreciated wireless communications may also be accomplished via Internet Protocol IP based systems and wireless fidelity Wi Fi based systems via distributed computing networks such as the Internet .

As is known to those skilled in the art a cellular tower typically consists of a steel pole or lattice structure outfitted with antennae for transmitting and receiving signals to and from wireless devices for example wireless phone personal digital assistant PDA smart phone etc. other cellular towers and the MTSO. Each cellular tower may have multiple sets of antenna mounted depending upon how many different service providers use the tower .

The base of each cellular tower may include sets of transmitters and receivers from each service provider having antennae mounted to the tower . As a unit the cellular tower and the base form a system capable of transmitting receiving and managing data. This data may consist of but not be limited to voice text and or electronic media. As is understood by those skilled in the art wireless systems typically operate at various frequencies e.g. across a frequency range from 700 megahertz MHz to 1900 MHz depending upon which wireless technology is utilized. As should be appreciated a synonym for a cellular tower is a cellular site as some cellular antennas may be mounted to other structures such as buildings. According to the embodiments of the present invention a visual voicemail WM system may operate across this typical network of wireless systems and therefore in the same frequency ranges.

Referring still to a wireless network may also employ the use of a wireless electronic communication devices e.g. wireless phone personal digital assistant PDA smart phone etc. capable of sending and receiving communications in the same frequency range as the wireless communications system. The term mobile or wireless device will be used herein to describe a wireless electronic communication device capable of sending and receiving wireless communications. As is understood by those skilled in the art wireless devices may comprise but are not limited to internal circuit boards antennae liquid crystal displays LCD keyboards microphones speakers and batteries. All of these components and systems making up wireless devices work together to send receive and manage communications within and beyond the cellular network.

Referring still to an MTSO serves as a central control center for the base stations operating in a given area. For example an MTSO may be configured for controlling wireless communications for a wireless service provider operating in a specified city or other suitable operating area or region. In addition to other operating functions of the MTSO according to embodiments of the present invention the MTSO may serve as control point for determining providing and controlling subscriber features. For example in accordance with embodiments of this invention a customer information database may contain data to allow a determination as to whether a particular feature or service is provisioned for a given wireless communications device account. An example of such a feature or service may be caller identification ID call waiting voicemail or visual voicemail. Thus if a caller using wireless device attempts a call to another wireless or wireline device a customer information database may be parsed to determine which features to provision before completing the connection with a called party.

Referring still to the telecommunications system also includes a public switched telephone network PSTN for allowing communications between a traditional wireline telephone through a PSTN switch to other telecommunications systems such as the wireless telecommunications systems described above. Also illustrated in is a cable television services based telecommunications network that enables a wireline telephone to communicate with other communications networks through a cable television services system via a cable to telephony interface and a cable television services associated landline switch described in further detail below with respect to . Also illustrated is a wireless phone connected to an access point base station which allows the wireless phone to connect to any number of wireless wireline PSTN CATV based communications systems and the like as illustriated in . In addition a computer is illustrated connected to a MTSO through a wireless communication network for communication via a distributed computing network such as the Internet with the wireless PSTN and cable television services system networks illustrated in .

According to embodiments of the present invention each of the telecommunications systems illustrated in for example public switched telephone network wireless network cable television services system network may include one or more intelligent network components for enabling and processing specialized or subscribed features for called and calling parties. According to embodiments such intelligent network components may reside at various locations in each of the example systems. For example for the PSTN network an intelligent network component may reside in the PSTN switch or an intelligent network component may reside in another location in the PSTN . For the cable television services system an intelligent network component may reside in the cable television services associated landline switch or in another component of the cable television services system . For the wireless telecommunications system the intelligent network component may similarly reside in one or more network components for example the MTSO and or the MTSO application server .

As described above such intelligent network components may be utilized for enabling and providing specialized features and requirements for subscribers of the respective systems. For example a user of the PSTN may subscribe to various features such as call forwarding call waiting caller ID and the like. When a call is received by the subscriber at the wireline telephone a query may be sent to the intelligent network component to determine those features for example caller ID that have been subscribed to by the user of the wireline telephone . After a determination is made of the subscribed to features those features may be provisioned for incoming calls to the wireline telephone . For example if a caller identification feature has been subscribed to by the user of the wireline telephone then caller identification for inbound telephone calls will be provided to the user of the wireline telephone . Similar functionality may be enabled in the cable television services system for cable television services based communications provided to a user of the wireline telephone or wireless telephone through the cable television services system .

In the case of the wireless telecommunications system illustrated in intelligent network components and systems may be deployed for example in the MTSO or MTSO server application for providing subscribed features for users of the wireless devices via the wireless communications system. According to one embodiment the intelligent network components for the wireless communications network illustrated in operate according to Internet protocol multimedia subsystems IMS . As is known to those skilled in the art IMS allows for wireless devices such a wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDA and computers to register with the wireless network for enabling a variety of specialized features for users of the wireless communications network.

According to embodiments when a call is directed to a first device for example a wireline telephone a wireline telephone or wireless telephone the intelligent network components of the respective systems i.e. PSTN or CATV associated with the called devices are queried to determine those specialized features subscribed to by the user of the devices. In the case of the present invention if the users of those devices have subscribed to device to device call disposition a notification may be made to a second device for example a wireless telephone for notifying the user presently located away from the device receiving the inbound call that the inbound call is in progress. In addition a variety of call disposition options may be presented to the user at the second device to allow the user to know of the existence of the inbound call and to allow the user to exercise certain control over the inbound call as described below.

Consider for example that the wireline telephone is positioned in the home of a user of the wireless telephone . Consider also for example that a call is placed to the wireline telephone . According to embodiments of the present invention when the call is placed to the wireline telephone a query is sent to an intelligent network component for example a PSTN service control point housed at the PSTN switch or at another location in the PSTN and a determination is made as to whether any specialized features are associated with the called wireline telephone . According to embodiments one specialized feature includes device to device call disposition. The intelligent network component to which the call is routed may parse a database to determine those features that are provisioned for the wireline telephone and in the case of device to device call disposition the intelligent network component may determine a directory number to which device to device call disposition should be routed and any call disposition options that should be presented at the second device. Thus when the inbound call is received at the example wireline telephone a notification of the received inbound call may be made to the user at the wireless telephone and one or more call disposition options may be enabled.

As should be appreciated the device to device call disposition described above may be enabled in any number of combinations of the telecommunications systems illustrated in . For example an inbound call directed to the wireline telephone or wireless telephone operating via the CATV based telephony system may receive the same treatment as inbound calls directed to the PSTN based wireline telephone . That is when a telephone call is received at the CATV based telephones an intelligent network component housed at the CATV associated landline switch or at another suitable component of the CATV system may be queried to determine features provisioned for the called devices. In the case of device to device call disposition described herein an identification of a second device for example the wireless devices illustrated in may be determined and any call disposition options to be provided may likewise be determined. A notification of the inbound call may then be provided to the user at the wireless devices and the user may be provided with one or more call disposition options as described below.

Similarly the device to device call disposition system may be utilized between wireless devices of the wireless communications network portion of the system illustrated in . For example a given user may utilize a first wireless device as a home or business device and a second wireless device as a personal device. According to embodiments of the present invention when a call is received at the first wireless device the MTSO and intelligent network components associated therewith for example an IMS system at the application server may be queried to determine features associated with the called wireless device . In the case of device to device call disposition a determination may be made as to whether a notification of the inbound call should be made to the second wireless device and as to whether any call disposition options should be enabled.

According to another embodiment if the user of a wireless device enters the operating proximity of another device for example the wireline telephone wireline telephone or wireless telephone calls directed to the wireless devices may be automatically forwarded to the second devices. For example if the second devices for example the wireline telephones are positioned in a home or business of a user of the wireless devices the presence of the wireless devices in the operational proximity of the wireline telephones may cause an automatic call forwarding of calls made to the wireless devices to the wireline devices . For example if the wireline telephone is located in a user s residence when the user arrives at his her residence with his her wireless telephone on his her person calls made to the wireless telephone may be automatically forwarded to the wireline telephone so that the user does not receive calls to both devices while he or she are at home.

According to embodiments a determination that the second device is in an operational proximity of the second first device may be made according to a variety of methods. According to one embodiment the user of the wireless device may manually notify the wireless network through the wireless device that the user is in the proximity of the second device and that automatic call forwarding should now occur. According to another embodiment a predisposition of call forwarding may be set up to automatically forward calls from the first device to the second device under prescribed conditions. For example a predisposed call forwarding schedule may be programmed to automatically forward calls from the first device to the second device at set times for example between the hours of 5 00 p.m. and midnight of each day. According to another embodiment presence data may be obtained for the first device using global positioning satellite GPS technology enabled for the first device or presence data available from the wireless communications network. For example if the first device is enabled for GPS tracking then GPS information providing a location for the wireless device may be used to notify the associated intelligent network component of the wireless device that the wireless device is now in the operational proximity of the second device. Similarly presence data for a wireless telephone may be determined from signal communications with the wireless network based on proximity of the wireless device to cellular stations illustrated in . According to another embodiment presence data for a WiFi enabled wireless device may be determined from signal communications with a wireless network such as a home wireless network connected to a router. The router may have a certain SSID or other identifier such as a base station MAC address. If the WiFi enabled wireless device is within proximity to the router and is able to receive signal communications software on the device may make a determination that the device is at a specified location in this example at home. According to yet another embodiment a determination may be made based on calendaring information for the user of the wireless device . For example if calendaring information available for the user of the wireless device shows the user will be in the same location as the second device for example the wireline device at a set date time then calls to the wireless device may be automatically forwarded to the second device during the set date time.

As described above when a call is received at a first device for which device to device call disposition features are enabled a notification to a second designated device may be made to alert a called party not in the presence of the first device that the incoming call is being received and to provide the called party with one or more call disposition options. A call disposition application may be deployed on the wireless device for processing incoming call notifications and for providing one or more call disposition options as described herein. According to one embodiment a simple notification of the inbound call at the first device may be received without enabling any call disposition options. For example a flashing light on the second device a tone emitted from the second device or a simple display notification may be utilized to allow the called party at the second device to know of the existence of the inbound call at the first device.

According to other embodiments a variety of richly displayed call information and call disposition options may be provided to the called party at the second device. is a simplified block diagram illustrating an interactive user interface for notifying a user of an incoming call and for providing call disposition options. The user interface is illustrative of a screen display that may be presented to a user at a second device at which a notification of an inbound telephone call received at a first device is made. As illustrated in a variety of call notification information may be provided. For example the notification may simply notify the called party that an incoming call to a first device is being received.

A notification may notify the called party of the incoming call to the first device and may provide the called party with caller identification information about the calling party. As should be appreciated if the user subscribes to caller identification information on the first or second devices then caller identification information may be provided as part of the notification process. Calling party information e.g. calling party name phone number etc. may also be provided by an on device address book. As illustrated in other notification information may similarly be provided. For example the notification notifies the called party that the incoming call to the first device has been answered. For example another party at the location of the first device may have answered the call but the user may have subscribed to a service that notifies the user at the second device even when a call made to the first device has been answered. As should be understood the notifications illustrated in are for purposes of example only and are not limiting of the many different types of notification that could be displayed. For example a notification may be made that the incoming call to the first device was rolled to a voicemail service associated with the first device or a notification may be made that the inbound call to the first device was automatically forwarded to a third device as prescribed by the user of the first device.

Referring still to in addition to providing the called party with notifications about the incoming telephone call to the first device a number of call disposition options may be presented to the called party. For example an answer option may allow the user to simply answer the call coming in to the first device. An ignore option is illustrated for allowing the user to ignore the inbound call directed to the first device and allow the call to proceed to a voicemail platform associated with the first device. An ignore option is illustrated for allowing the called party to ignore the call but to direct the call to a voicemail platform associated with the second device for example the user s wireless telephone . A transfer option is illustrated for allowing the user to selectively transfer the incoming call to yet a third device. For example the user may desire to transfer the call coming into the first device to a third device such as a wireline telephone located at the user s office. Other options may be provided for allowing the user to dispose of the call according to any available call processing option that may be utilized according to the user s features subscriptions for the first and second devices.

As should be appreciated the call disposition options enabled for the first and second devices may require one or more call processing flows to take place upon selection of one or more of the available call disposition options. For example if a user selects the answer option so that the incoming call to the first device for example the wireline telephone at the user s home may be answered at the second device for example the user s wireless telephone appropriate signaling from the second device must be accomplished to cause a forwarding of the inbound call to the second device. For example upon selection of the answer option a signal from the wireless telephone through the base station to the MTSO may be accomplished followed by signaling to the PSTN and on to the PSTN to establish a communication from the original calling party to the second device at which the user may be reached. According to embodiments signaling between a device and a network may be performed via Internet Protocol IP via SMS messaging or via traditional cellular signaling. Operation of signaling between devices such as the wireless telephone through the mobile telephone switching office for connecting a call from the original calling party is well known to those skilled in the art and will not be described in further detail herein. As should be appreciated similar connections between calling and called parties are likewise known to those skilled in the art via the other telecommunications systems illustrated and described herein for example telephone calls made via the CATV .

The routine begins at start operation and proceeds to operation where a call is received directed to a first device for example the wireline telephones located at the called party s home business or other location. At operation based on the dialed digits for the incoming call the call is passed to an intelligent network component for example a service control point of the PSTN via the PSTN switch or to an intelligent network component of the CATV via the CATV associated landline switch . At one of the respective intelligent network components a database is queried with the telephone directory number associated with the called device. Based on the database query a feature set subscribed to by the owner user of the called device is located to determine those features subscribed to by the user of the called device. For example if the user subscribes to a caller identification feature then caller identification information will be presented at the called device for the incoming call.

According to embodiments of the present invention at operation a determination is made that the called first device is associated with a device to device call disposition feature. At operation as part of the database query at the intelligent network component instructions are obtained for disposing of the call at a second device. For example a telephone directory number of the second device may be obtained and any call disposition options such as those illustrated and described with respect to above are likewise obtained.

At operation the incoming call is passed to the second device for example the wireless telephone for call disposition by the user of the second device. As described above with reference to if the instructions for device to device call disposition obtained for the incoming call are simply to notify the called party at the second device of the existence of the incoming call then a communication between the calling party and the called party at the second device need not be accomplished. That is at operation appropriate signaling to the second device to cause a desired notification for example a notification illustrated in or a simple audible or visual indication may be accomplished.

If the user of the called device has subscribed to one or more call disposition options then the call disposition options for example options illustrated in may be presented to the called party at the second device at operation . At operation if the called party at the second device selects one of the presented call disposition options signaling associated with the selected call disposition option is passed back through the appropriate telecommunications networks for example from the wireless telephone through the wireless station through the MTSO through the PSTN and so on in order to pass the call disposition instruction back to the appropriate intelligent network component for processing the call in the accordance with the instruction.

At operation the call disposition instructed received from the called party is processed. For example if the user selects the ignore option then signaling will be returned to the intelligent network component controlling and presently processing the inbound call to direct the appropriate switch for example the PSTN switch or the CATV associated landline switch to allow the incoming call to be passed to a voicemail platform associated with the first device. For another example if the call disposition instruction is the transfer option then appropriate signaling will be sent back through the telecommunications networks to the switch presently handling the incoming call and that instruction will be followed to transfer the incoming call to a previously designated transfer directory number. After any required notification for the incoming call is made and after processing any selected call disposition options the routine ends at operation .

As described above according to another embodiment if the user of the second device for example the wireless telephone returns to the operational proximity of the first device an automatic call forwarding of calls received to the second device may be made so that such incoming calls may be forwarded to the first device. For example if a user of the wireless telephone returns home at the end of a work day all calls placed to the wireless telephone may be automatically forwarded to the wireline telephone located in the user s home. As described above one of a number of methods for determining that the first device is in the operational proximity of the second device may be utilized.

As described above according to embodiments inbound calls requiring device to device call disposition and automatic call forwarding to in proximity devices may be performed in association with a cable television services system CATV network. is a simplified block diagram of a cable services system architecture in which embodiments of the present invention may be implemented. As illustrated in digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer. As is known to those skilled in the art HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server of the present invention.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As should be appreciated a STB may be a physical electronic device as described above or may be integrated into a device containing a MAC address such as a television .

As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and the server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML or other similar protocols.

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a variety of frequencies for example at frequencies between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

According to one embodiment data passed between the CATV system backend components such as the head end and the CATV system front end components such as the STB may be passed according to the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS . As is well known to those skilled in the art DOCSIS provides for a mechanism for data transport over a cable system such as the CATV illustrated in . Among other things DOCSIS allows for the passing of digital communications and Internet connectivity over an HFC network .

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box . According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server obtains customer profile data from services provider data services for preparing a customer profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer. According to an embodiment of the present invention a customer profile may include communications applications provisioned on networked STBs as well as designations of individual STBs in a home business or facility e.g. kitchen STB bedroom STB office STB and the like .

As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. The customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . When the application server requires customer profile data from one or more of the data services for preparation or update of a customer profile the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

As illustrated in the wireline telephone may connect to the CATV via a cable to telephony interface e.g. embedded multimedia terminal adapter eMTA multimedia terminal adapter MTA . The cable to telephony interface allows for analog signallying at a customer s premises to be converted into digital signaling which is sent over a cable connection to a switching center where it is connected to any of a number of communications systems as is illustrated in . A wireless telephone may connect to the CATV via an access point base station or via a WiFi base station. According to one embodiment when a wireless telephone is in proximity to the CATV enabled devices and calls to the wireless devices are automatically forwarded to the CATV enabled devices call notification and or call disposition information directed to the CATV enabled devices may be displayed on the television via the STB .

As described herein methods and systems are provided for allowing a user of a wireless communication device or other suitable communication device to receive and review transcribed voicemail messages in text format and for allowing the user to access associated audio versions of transcribed voicemail messages without the need for accessing a voicemail system to cycle through various prompts and stored voicemail messages. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

