---

title: Mobile search based on predicted location
abstract: A method includes receiving one or more search terms at a mobile computing device while the mobile computing device is located at a particular location. A search query that includes the one or more search terms and a location history of the mobile computing device is transmitted to a server. The method also includes receiving one or more search results in response to the search query, where the one or more search results include content identified based on a predicted destination of the mobile computing device. An interface identifying the one or more search results is displayed at the mobile computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09134137&OS=09134137&RS=09134137
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09134137
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101217
---
Portable devices such as mobile phones are typically small lightweight and easily carried by users. As technology has advanced such portable devices have provided users with an increasing amount of on the go functionality. For example portable devices can incorporate a digital camera a media player and Internet surfing capabilities. Some portable devices also include a global positioning system GPS transceiver. The ability to detect a current location of the portable device may enable location based searches at the portable device. For example a user of a mobile phone may perform e.g. via a browser or a maps application a search for restaurants that are near the current location. However such a listing may not always be useful. For example if the user is in a car that is traveling on a highway identifying restaurants that the user has already travelled past may not be useful.

Other devices such as vehicle navigation systems may identify points of interest that are along a route of the vehicle. However the vehicle navigation system may not be able to identify such points of interest unless a user has previously identified their intended destination.

Systems and methods of performing a search at a mobile computing device and generating search results based on a predicted e.g. future location of the mobile computing device are disclosed. When a user enters one or more search terms into the mobile computing device the mobile computing device may transmit a search query that includes the one or more search terms and a location history of the mobile computing device to a server. For example the location history may be used e.g. by a location prediction service accessible to the server to predict a future location of the mobile computing device. The predicted location of the mobile computing device may be a predicted destination of the mobile computing device a point along a predicted route of the mobile computing device or some other location. The search terms from the user may be augmented with information regarding the predicted location thereby creating a trajectory aware search query. The trajectory aware search query may be transmitted to a search engine to identify trajectory aware search results that may be more relevant to a travelling user than search results identified solely based on a current location of the user.

In alternate implementations the future location s of the mobile computing device may be predicted at the mobile computing device instead of at a server or by a location prediction service. The mobile search techniques disclosed herein may identify trajectory aware search results even when an intended destination or an intended route of the mobile computing device are not expressly input by a user. Thus the disclosed systems and methods may be operable out of the box. 

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In a particular embodiment a method includes receiving one or more search terms at a mobile computing device while the mobile computing device is located at a particular location. The method also includes transmitting a search query to a server. The search query includes the one or more search terms and a location history of the mobile computing device. The method further includes receiving a search result in response to the search query where the search result includes content identified based on a predicted destination of the mobile computing device. The method includes displaying an interface at the mobile computing device that identifies the search result.

In another particular embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium includes instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to receive a search query from a mobile computing device. The search query includes one or more search terms and a set of geographic elements traversed by the mobile computing device during a trip. The instructions are also executable to cause the computer to determine a predicted location of the mobile computing device based on the set of geographic elements and to create a trajectory aware search query based on the one or more search terms and the predicted location. The instructions are further executable to cause the computer to identify one or more search results in response to the trajectory aware search query and to transmit the one or more search results to the mobile computing device.

In another particular embodiment a system includes a location indicator an input interface an output interface and a network interface. The system also includes a processor and a memory storing instructions executable by the processor to track a location history based on outputs of the location indicator. The instructions are also executable by the processor to receive one or more search terms via the input interface and to predict a destination based on the location history. The instructions are further executable to create a trajectory aware search query based on the one or more search terms and the predicted destination. The instructions are executable to transmit the trajectory aware search query to a search engine via the network interface and to receive one or more search results from the search engine via the network interface. The instructions are also executable to display content associated with the one or more search results via the output interface.

The mobile computing device may be a mobile telephone a smartphone a portable digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a tablet computer a netbook computer a navigation device a digital camera a watch or other electronic apparel or accessory or some other portable electronic device or portable computing device. The mobile computing device may include one or more input and output interfaces or devices. For example the mobile computing device may be a mobile telephone that includes input devices such as a keypad and a microphone output devices such as a speaker and combination input output devices such as a capacitive touchscreen. The mobile computing device may also include a location indicator such as a GPS transceiver. When sampled the location indicator may return a current location of the mobile computing device . In alternate embodiments other forms of location measurement may be used by or provided to the mobile computing device . For example the current location of the mobile computing device may be determined from one or more wireless e.g. Wi Fi access points cellular towers Bluetooth radios or a separate location determining device e.g. a vehicle s navigation system .

In a particular embodiment the mobile computing device is operable to detect the start and stop of a trip made by a user that possesses the mobile computing device . Trips may be detected automatically or in response to user input. For example the start of a car trip may be detected when the mobile computing device experiences a sudden and large change in velocity. During the trip the mobile computing device may sample the location indicator to maintain a location history of the mobile computing device . For example the location history may identify a set of one or more geographic elements e.g. geographic cells road segments or other geographic elements traversed by the mobile computing device during the trip.

In a particular embodiment the mobile computing device samples the location indicator periodically e.g. upon expiration of a sampling period such as 5 seconds . The mobile computing device may identify a geographic element corresponding to the location returned by the location indicator and add the geographic element to the location history . In a particular embodiment the geographic element is not added to the location history unless the geographic element is more than a threshold distance e.g. 20 meters from a previously returned location. In alternate embodiments a sampling period other than 5 seconds and a threshold distance other than 20 meters may be used.

When the mobile computing device receives a search query including one or more search terms from the user the mobile computing device may add the location history or information related to the location history to the search query before transmitting the search query to the server . For example the search terms may be received via a browser application or a maps application executing at the mobile computing device .

The server may receive the search query from the mobile computing device . In a particular embodiment the server identifies a predicted location of the mobile computing device after receiving the search query . For example the predicted location may be a predicted destination of the mobile computing device a point on a predicted route of the mobile computing device or some other location. In certain situations a predicted destination of the mobile computing device may correspond to the current location of the mobile computing device i.e. the location of the mobile computing device when the search terms were entered . That is the server may predict that a user has arrived at his or her intended destination will make a round trip or will not travel anywhere else for a period of time. Alternately the predicted destination of the mobile computing device may be different than the current location of the mobile computing device .

The server may add information regarding the predicted location to the search query to generate a trajectory aware search query . For example the trajectory aware search query may include the search terms and geographic coordinates or keywords corresponding to the predicted location . To illustrate if the search terms included hardware store and the predicted location was Seattle Wash. the trajectory aware search query may include hardware store Seattle Wash. The trajectory aware search query may be transmitted to a search engine server to generate the search results . For example the search engine server may correspond to an Internet accessible search engine.

In a particular embodiment the server utilizes a location prediction service to identify the predicted location . For example the server may extract the location history from the search query and may transmit the location history to the location prediction service . The location prediction service may use the location history to determine the predicted location and may transmit the predicted location to the server . For example the location prediction service may include or may have access to stored travel times corresponding to a geographic region. The stored travel times may include estimates of how long it takes to travel e.g. by foot bicycle motorcycle car public transportation or any combination thereof between two points in the geographic region. The location prediction service may use the stored travel times and other information or assumptions e.g. that most trips are less than half an hour in duration to determine the predicted location . An exemplary method of predicting a future location based on a location history is described with reference to .

In a particular embodiment the mobile computing device transmits updated location histories to the server during a trip. For example an updated location history may indicate movement of the mobile computing device from a first location to a second location. The server may use the updated location histories to refine the predicted location and to identify updated search results via the search engine server . For example the trajectory aware search query may be transmitted to the search engine server via a search engine application programming interface API . The server may transmit the updated search results to the mobile computing device where the updated search results are displayed alongside or instead of the search results e.g. at a graphical user interface GUI generated by the mobile computing device . An exemplary search interface is further described with reference to .

In another particular embodiment trajectory aware search is not performed if the search terms include a geographic search term. To illustrate if the search terms or a second search query included hardware store Portland Oreg. instead of merely hardware store the mobile computing device may not add the location history to the search query since the search terms already specify a geographic target. Alternately the mobile computing device may add the location history but the server may ignore the location history and may transmit the search query to the search engine server as is to retrieve search results regarding hardware stores in the Portland Oreg. area e.g. independently of a trajectory of the mobile computing device .

In yet another embodiment the location history may be used for disambiguation purposes. For example if the search terms included hardware store Portland the server may use the location history and the predicted location to deduce that a mobile phone is travelling towards Portland Oreg. and not Portland Me. The server may thus prioritize search results associated with Portland Oreg. over those associated with Portland Me. Alternately or in addition the location history may be used to suggest auto complete search terms. For example if a user located in Bellevue Wash. types Kir into a search interface while the user is traveling from Bellevue Wash. towards Kirkland Wash. the search term Kirkland may be provided as a suggested auto completion of the user s partially entered search query.

In another particular embodiment the server or the location prediction service may compute a speed of the mobile computing device . For example each geographic element in the location history may have an associated timestamp representing when the mobile computing device added the geographic element to the location history . The speed of the mobile computing device may be computed based on the timestamps and may be used to augment the trajectory aware search query refine the trajectory aware search results identify additional search results or any combination thereof. For example a user may traverse the same sequence of geographic cells or road segments via a highway or via city streets. The computed speed of the mobile computing device may be greater when the user is on the highway than when the user is on city streets. When the speed indicates that the user is on the highway e.g. the speed is greater than a threshold search results close to or associated with one or more exits on the highway may be prioritized. In other embodiments a predicted location of a mobile computing device may also be used for non search related purposes. For example the predicted location may be used to determine traffic conditions en route to the predicted location to suggest alternate routes to the predicted location or for other non search related purposes.

In operation the mobile computing device may receive the search terms and may generate the search query based on the search terms . The mobile computing device may also add the location history to the search query and transmit the search query with the location history to the server . The server may identify the predicted location of the mobile computing device based on the location history . For example the server may transmit the location history to the location prediction service and receive the predicted location from the location prediction service . The server may augment the search terms with the predicted location to generate the trajectory aware search query . The server may identify the one or more trajectory aware search results based on the trajectory aware search query e.g. via the search engine server . The server may transmit the trajectory aware search results to the mobile computing device .

It will be appreciated that the system of may improve the mobile search experience in multiple ways. For example the system of may decrease the amount of time and or number of searches a user performs before the user locates a desired point of interest. As another example the system of may provide trajectory aware search results that are not returned by conventional search techniques thereby providing greater choice to the user. In addition the system of may provide mobile and localized search capabilities in situations where the user is unfamiliar with his or her surroundings.

It should be noted that although the system of depicts a separate mobile computing device server location prediction service and search engine server one or more components of the system may be integrated into a single device. For example illustrates a particular embodiment of a mobile computing device operable to perform mobile search based on a predicted location.

The mobile computing device may integrate the functionality and operations described with reference to the mobile computing device the server and the location prediction service of . For example the mobile computing device may include an input interface such as a touchscreen or keypad. The input interface may be operable to receive input from a user. The mobile computing device may also include a location indicator e.g. a GPS transceiver . When sampled the location indicator may provide a location e.g. GPS coordinates of the mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device may further include a network interface . For example the network interface may be a wireless interface such as a cellular network interface or Wi Fi network interface. The network interface may be operable to communicate with network based entities such as an Internet accessible search engine. In a particular embodiment the mobile computing device communicates with the Internet accessible search engine via an API . The mobile computing device may also include an output interface operable to provide output to a user. For example the output interface may be a display screen. In a particular embodiment the input interface and the output interface are integrated into a single device such as a capacitive touchscreen.

The mobile computing device may also include a trajectory aware search and location prediction module . In a particular embodiment the module is implemented by processor executable instructions. For example such instructions may be stored at a memory of the mobile computing device and may be executed by a processor of the mobile computing device . It should be noted that although the trajectory aware search and location prediction module is illustrated in as a single module functionality of the trajectory aware search and location prediction module may be implemented using any number of hardware or software logic blocks or modules.

During operation the location indicator may be sampled e.g. periodically to track a location history of the mobile computing device . The input interface may receive the input from a user where the input represents one or more search terms . The search terms may be input into the trajectory aware search and location prediction module . The trajectory aware search and location prediction module may determine a predicted location of the mobile computing device based on the location history . In a particular embodiment predicting the location includes reference to a database or table of stored travel times . For example the stored travel times may be stored in a non volatile memory of the mobile computing device .

The module may generate a trajectory aware search query that includes the predicted location. For example the predicted location may be a predicted destination of the mobile computing device or may be a point on a predicted route of the mobile computing device . The trajectory aware search query may be transmitted to a search engine via the network interface . The search engine may return one or more trajectory aware search results that may be displayed to the user via the output interface as the output . For example the search results may be associated with the predicted location of the mobile computing device . Alternately the trajectory aware search query may be used to search one or more local data stores e.g. local databases files or applications at the mobile computing device instead of a search engine.

It will be appreciated that the system of may integrate trajectory aware search functionality into a single device such as a mobile phone or a portable navigation system. The system of may thus enhance user convenience and provide mobile device hardware or software manufacturers with a differentiating location based search feature.

In a particular embodiment predicting locations based on location histories includes performing one or more initial e.g. preparation operations prior to making any predictions. A geographic area may be divided into a plurality of geographic elements. For example depicts a grid divided into a plurality of equal sized e.g. 150 meter 150 meter geographic elements representing a portion of the greater Seattle Wash. area.

The grid may include one or more navigable geographic elements and one or more non navigable geographic elements . In a particular embodiment the navigable geographic elements represent geographic elements that are within a threshold distance e.g. 150 meters from a navigable roadway. When the grid is divided into geographic elements a corresponding set of geographic elements may be created. A subset of the navigable geographic elements may then be identified e.g. by removing non navigable geographic elements from the set and travel times may be determined between each pair of navigable geographic elements. The travel times may be stored for future reference at one or more data storage devices e.g. as the stored travel times of or the stored travel times of . In a particular embodiment the number of calculations to be performed may be reduced by a factor of two by assuming that travel time between two geographic cells will be equal regardless of travel direction.

As a mobile computing device e.g. the mobile computing device of or the mobile computing device of traverses the geographic elements of the grid a location history of the mobile computing device may be tracked. For example the location history may represent the trajectory illustrated in where the trajectory includes an initial geographic element e.g. a start of a trip and a most recent detected geographic element e.g. a current location . The trajectory may be used to determine one or more of a predicted destination and a predicted route of the mobile computing device as illustrated in .

In a particular embodiment one or more destination elements are identified where the destination elements are reachable within a predetermined time from the initial geographic element . For example the predetermined time may be 30 minutes based on an assumption or an empirical observation that most trips take less than 30 minutes to complete. The destination elements may be identified based on the previously stored travel times. For each such destination geographic element a probability of whether the destination geographic element is a future location e.g. destination of the mobile computing device may be computed. Based on the computed probabilities one or more of the predicted destination and the predicted route may be determined. The predicted destination and or the predicted route may be used to identify trajectory aware search results e.g. search results near the predicted destination and or along the predicted route .

In another particular embodiment the predicted destination the predicted route and the computed probabilities may be stored for each user session to improve performance. Thus when an updated location history is received the predicted destination and predicted route may be updated without re computing the probabilities. In another particular embodiment each geographic element in a location history may be associated with a timestamp e.g. representing when the mobile computing device entered exited or was located in the geographic element . The timestamps may be used to compute a speed of the mobile computing device and the computed speed may be used to identify additional trajectory aware search results or may be used to prioritize or refine previously identified search results. For example when the computed speed is greater than a threshold e.g. 55 miles per hour search results associated with highway exits may be identified or prioritized.

It will be appreciated that the location prediction method of may enable trajectory aware search at mobile computing devices. It will also be appreciated that the method of may protect user privacy. For example only those locations relevant to a current trip may be tracked and locations traversed during old trips may be deleted once a trip has been completed. In addition the method of may operate based on a broad resolution of 150 meter 150 meter areas instead of tracking more precise addresses or coordinates visited by users.

In a particular embodiment the interface includes a search field and a search control . For example the search field may accept text input corresponding to one or more search terms and the search control may be a button operable to submit the search query to a trajectory aware search program. To illustrate a user presented with the interface may enter a search term pizza indicating that he or she is interested in finding a pizza restaurant. The interface may also include a map area . The map area may depict a region surrounding a current location of a mobile computing device. The interface may also include a bulls eye icon operable to center the map area on the current location and a timer icon operable to view a history of previously conducted searches. Alternately other icons or text based controls may be displayed. In a particular embodiment the map area is interactive and may support panning and zooming operations.

In response to a search query e.g. pizza one or more search results may be generated and displayed e.g. overlaid on the map area . For example the search results may be generated as described with reference to the search results of or the search results of . The search results may include trajectory aware search results trajectory unaware search results e.g. results based on just the term pizza and or the current location of the mobile computing device or any combination thereof. To illustrate trajectory aware search results e.g. a search result E may be denoted by a white flag at the interface and trajectory unaware search results e.g. a search result A may be denoted by a gray flag at the interface.

In a particular embodiment each search result is interactive. For example the user may select the search result E and the associated flag may change from white to black as illustrated at . In addition an information box may be displayed where the information block includes information associated with the location or business corresponding to the selected search result E . For example for a pizza restaurant the information box may include a name a price range an address and a phone number of the pizza restaurant. In other embodiments the information box may also include or be operable e.g. via selection to view reviews of the pizza restaurant submitted by other users.

It should be noted that the retail e.g. hardware store and restaurant e.g. pizza searches described herein are for example only. The disclosed mobile search techniques may be applied to any other search domain. For example trajectory aware mobile search may be performed on local e.g. city state or municipal content web content advertising traffic information friends or friend groups e.g. in social networks and other information domains. Moreover trajectory information may not only be used to identify search results but also to prioritize or rank search results to compute information related to the trajectory e.g. a remaining time to arrival at the predicted destination and to pre fetch search results or content likely to be retrieved by a user during subsequent searches or Internet browsing sessions.

The method may include detecting a start of a trip by a mobile computing device at . For example in the trajectory aware search and location prediction module may detect the start of a trip. The method may also include maintaining a location history of the mobile computing device at . In a particular embodiment maintaining the location history includes performing an iterative process. The process may include sampling a location indicator at . For example the location indicator may be sampled every five seconds. When it is determined at that a location returned by the sample indicator is a new location the process may include adding a geographic element corresponding to the returned location to a set of geographic elements at . When the returned location is not a new location the process may iterate back to . The location history may continue to be tracked until the trip ends at which point the location history may be deleted. In other embodiments the location histories may be saved e.g. on a per user basis .

The method may further include receiving one or more search terms at the mobile computing device while the mobile computing device is at a particular location at . For example in the search terms may be received via the input interface . The method may include predicting a location of the mobile computing device based on the location history at . The predicted location may be a predicted destination of the mobile computing device or a point along a predicted route of the mobile computing device. For example in the trajectory aware search and location prediction module may determine the predicted location based on the location history .

The method may also include creating a trajectory aware search query based on the one or more search terms and the predicted location at . For example in the trajectory aware search and location prediction module may create the trajectory aware search query . The method may further include receiving a search result or search results in response to the search query at . The search result includes content identified based on the predicted location. For example in the search results may be received via the network interface .

The method may include displaying an interface at the mobile computing device that identifies the search result a . For example in the interface may be displayed via the output interface . In an illustrative embodiment the displayed interface is the interface of .

The method may include dividing a geographic area into a plurality of geographic elements at . For example in the location prediction service may divide a geographic area into a plurality of geographic elements. To illustrate the geographic area may be divided into the grid of .

The method may also include identifying a subset of navigable geographic elements that are within a threshold distance of a navigable roadway at . For example in the location prediction service may identify a subset of geographic elements. To illustrate the subset of navigable geographic elements may be the subset of navigable geographic elements of .

The method may further include determining and storing travel times between each pair of navigable geographic elements at . For example in the location prediction service may generate the stored travel times . The method may include receiving a search query from a mobile computing device at . The search query may include one or more search terms and a set of geographic elements traversed by the mobile computing device during a trip. For example in the server may receive the search query from the mobile computing device where the search query includes the search terms and the location history . In an illustrative embodiment the location history includes a set of geographic elements traversed by the mobile computing device during the trip. The method may also include identifying one or more destination geographic elements that are reachable from an initial geographic element at . For example referring to the initial geographic element may be the initial geographic element of .

The method may further include computing probabilities of whether the destination geographic elements are a destination of the mobile computing device at and determining a predicted destination based on the probabilities at . For example referring to the predicted destination may be the predicted destination . Alternately a point on the predicted route may be determined. In a particular embodiment the probabilities are computed based on an algorithm that relies on an assumption that travelers typically choose at least moderately efficient routes to a desired destination. Based on a user s trajectory e.g. location history the algorithm may compute how efficiently the user has approached or is approaching each potential destination e.g. cell in the grid of . The efficiencies may be used to compute the probability that each potential destination is the intended destination of the user. In some embodiments a Markov model may be used during execution of the prediction algorithm. However it should be noted that other models or other location prediction algorithms may also be used.

The method may include creating a trajectory aware search query based on the one or more search terms and the predicted destination at and identifying one or more search results in response to the trajectory aware search query at . For example in the server may create the trajectory aware search query and may receive the search results . The method may further include transmitting the one or more search results to the mobile computing device at . For example in the server may transmit the search results to the mobile computing device . All or a portion of the method may be re executed to update the search results e.g. as the user travels towards the predicted location or performs additional searches .

The computing device includes at least one processor and a system memory . For example the computing device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile phone a server or any other fixed or mobile computing device. Depending on the configuration and type of computing device the system memory may be volatile such as random access memory or RAM non volatile such as read only memory or ROM flash memory and similar memory devices that maintain stored data even when power is not provided non transitory some combination of the three or some other memory. The system memory may include an operating system one or more application platforms one or more applications and program data . In the embodiment illustrated the system memory includes a trajectory aware search and location prediction module . In an illustrative embodiment the trajectory aware search and location prediction module is the trajectory aware search and location prediction module of or is incorporated into one or more of the mobile computing device the server and the location prediction service of .

The computing device may also have additional features or functionality. For example the computing device may also include removable and or non removable additional data storage devices such as magnetic disks optical disks tape and memory cards. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media may include volatile and or non volatile storage and removable and or non removable media implemented in any technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program components or other data. The system memory the removable storage and the non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. The computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disks CD digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store information and that can be accessed by the computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of the computing device . In an illustrative embodiment such computer storage media is used to store the stored travel times of or the stored travel times of .

The computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. connected via one or more input interfaces. In an illustrative embodiment the input device s include the input interface of . Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included and connected via one or more output interfaces. In an illustrative embodiment the output device s include the output interface of .

The computing device also contains one or more communication connections that allow the computing device to communicate with other computing devices over a wired or a wireless network. In an illustrative embodiment the communication connections include the network interface of . The other computing devices may include one or more of a mobile computing device e.g. the mobile computing device of or the mobile computing device of a location prediction service e.g. the location prediction service of and a search engine e.g. the search engine server of . For example the one or more communication connections may represent an interface that communicates with other computing devices via a network.

It will be appreciated that not all of the components or devices illustrated in or otherwise described in the previous paragraphs are necessary to support embodiments as herein described. For example the removable storage may be optional.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules and process steps or instructions described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware or computer software. Various illustrative components blocks configurations modules or steps have been described generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The steps of a method described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in computer readable media such as random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to a processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor or the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device or computer system.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments.

The Abstract is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments.

The previous description of the embodiments is provided to enable a person skilled in the art to make or use the embodiments. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope possible consistent with the principles and novel features as defined by the following claims.

