---

title: System and method for providing security aboard a moving platform
abstract: A system for providing network security on a vehicle information system and methods for manufacturing and using same. The security system comprises an all-in-one security system that facilitates security system functions for the vehicle information system. Exemplary security system functions include secure storage of keys used to encrypt and/or decrypt system data, security-related application programming interfaces, a security log file, and/or private data. The security system likewise can utilize antivirus software, anti-spyware software, an application firewall, and/or a network firewall. As desired, the security system can include an intrusion prevention system and/or an intrusion detection system. If the information system includes a wireless distribution system, the security system can include an intrusion prevention (and/or detection) system that is suitable for use with wireless network systems. Thereby, the security system advantageously can provide a defense in depth approach by adding multiple layers of security to the information system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08402268&OS=08402268&RS=08402268
owner: Panasonic Avionics Corporation
number: 08402268
owner_city: Lake Forest
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100611
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 186 330 filed Jun. 11 2009. Priority to the provisional patent application is expressly claimed and the disclosure of the provisional application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

The present application relates generally to network security systems and more particularly but not exclusively to security systems suitable for use with vehicle information systems installed aboard passenger vehicles.

Vehicles such as automobiles and aircraft often include vehicle information systems for satisfying passenger demand for access to viewing content such as entertainment information content or other viewing content while traveling.

Conventional vehicle information or entertainment systems typically include overhead cabin video systems or seat based video systems with individual controls such that viewing content is selectable by the passengers. Handheld or portable media devices also can be made available for selecting and presenting the viewing content. The viewing content can include audio and video content that is derived from a variety of content sources. Prerecorded viewing content such as motion pictures and music can be provided by internal content sources such as audio and video players that are installed aboard the vehicle. The conventional vehicle information systems likewise can include antenna systems for receiving viewing content such as live television programming and or Internet content transmitted from one or more content providers or sources that are external to and or remote from the vehicle. As desired viewing content likewise can be stored within an internal memory system of the portable media devices.

Conventional vehicle information systems however suffer from numerous disadvantages. For example few conventional vehicle information systems provide robust network security. Those vehicle information systems that do provide security distribute security components across multiple system elements such as line replaceable units or LRUs . However these system elements themselves are insecure. For example hardware and software applications that process and store commercial transaction information such as credit card payment data are distributed throughout current vehicle information systems exposing sensitive data and placing confidential information at risk. Further conventional vehicle information systems cannot identify security breaches.

In view of the foregoing a need exists for an improved system and method for providing security for vehicle information systems in an effort to overcome the aforementioned obstacles and deficiencies of conventional vehicle information systems.

It should be noted that the figures are not drawn to scale and that elements of similar structures or functions are generally represented by like reference numerals for illustrative purposes throughout the figures. It also should be noted that the figures are only intended to facilitate the description of the preferred embodiments. The figures do not illustrate every aspect of the described embodiments and do not limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Since conventional security systems for vehicle information systems are distributed across multiple insecure system elements and cannot identify security breaches a security system that provides network security to a vehicle information system and that is disposed within a single system element can prove desirable and provide a basis for a wide range of system applications such as vehicle information systems for use aboard automobiles aircraft ships buses trains and other types of conventional passenger vehicles during travel. This result can be achieved according to one embodiment disclosed herein by the security system as illustrated in .

Turning to the security system can provide network security for an information system . The security system is shown as being provided as an integrated security system. In other words the security system can be disposed within a single system element of the information system . The security system advantageously can comprise an all in one security system that facilitates security system functions in whole and or in part for the information system . Thereby the security system can provide a defense in depth approach by adding multiple layers of security to the information system .

The security system can provide selected security system functions such as secure storage of keys used to encrypt and or decrypt system data storage of security related application programming interfaces APIs storage of a security log file and or secure storage for private data such as user or passenger credit card data and or medical data. The security system likewise can utilize antivirus software anti spyware software an application firewall and or a network firewall. As desired the security system can include an intrusion prevention system IPS and or an intrusion detection system IDS . If the information system includes a wireless communication or distribution system shown in such as a wireless fidelity Wi Fi network for example the security system can include an intrusion prevention system IPS and or an intrusion detection system IDS that is suitable for use with wireless network systems. The security system functions described herein are not exhaustive and are provided herein for purposes of illustration only and not for purposes of limitation.

Exemplary security system functions of the security system are discussed in more detail below with reference to . The security system functions of the security system can comprise any conventional type of security system functions and are shown and described with reference to for purpose of illustration only and not for purposes of limitation. The security system for example can include antivirus and or anti malware software for scanning network traffic files and or other conventional types of data being exchanged with the information system . Preferably the antivirus software is signature based antivirus software. The antivirus software thereby can be periodically or regularly updated such as at least once a month for the latest virus signatures. As the data is transmitted through the security system the antivirus software can inspect the data against its virus signature files and thereby allow safe data to propagate and or prevent malicious code from harming either the security system the information system and or adjacent peripheral systems e.g. an In Flight Entertainment system.

Alternatively and or additionally the security system advantageously can utilize hardware based encryption. As illustrated in Hardware Security Module HSM of the security system can be provided as an integrated circuit device that stores sensitive information using hardware encryption. For example the HSM may manage digital keys accelerate cryptoprocesses in terms of digital signings and provide strong authentication to access critical keys for various software modules or LRUs. The encryption keys thereby can be stored in a secure place to reduce risk exposure. HSM preferably meets and or exceeds Federal Information Processing Standard FIPS level II certification. As desired the HSM system may handle asymmetric key pairs and certificates used in public key cryptography and symmetric keys. HSM is a more robust security solution than conventional security solutions because software encryption based designs can be utilized to hide information but can be reverse engineered risking exposure to sensitive data. Software encryption based designs likewise may present significant risk. For example the design may be disclosed or otherwise discovered and or some unforeseen event could happen to the limited number of people who know the design.

Turning If the information system includes a wireless distribution system B the security system may include a wireless fidelity Wi Fi device . The Wi Fi device preferably has a built in access point shown in such as a wireless access point WAP that supports wireless communications. Communications for the Wi Fi device in whole and or in part can pass through the wireless access point. Since wireless connectivity typically is deemed insecure a Denial of Service DOS attack could render the information system useless preventing crew and passengers from communicating. If all wireless communications pass through the access point however all communication packets can pass through Wireless Intrusion Prevention Software WIPS that can block and or deny all de auth DOS attacks and prevent one or more wireless devices such as a personal media device shown in from accessing the content distribution system .

The security system alternatively and or additionally can provide secure data storage . The secure data storage can be provided in any conventional manner and can include sufficient storage resources for securely storing credit card transactions and or other sensitive data of any kind in an encrypted format. As desired the data can be securely stored in accordance with a relevant data security standard. Exemplary security standards may include Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS for credit card information and or Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA for medical information. As desired private data likewise can include personal information protected under applicable law. European personal data privacy laws for example protect any type of data such as name address and or frequent flyer number that can be used to identify a person.

As shown in the security system can include an Application Based Firewall . Applications used by the information system typically communicate with each other and transfer data to and or from various locations on the communication or distribution system . This data can be malformed and or cause unexpected results such as buffer overflows and or remote code execution. Malformed data and or unexpected results can compromise the information system . The application firewall can inhibit malformed data from passing between applications and or causing unexpected results. Moreover an Application Based Firewall or Web Application Firewall may provide a defense at the network security level for web application attacks capable of being launched on TCP UDP port a port that must remain open and vulnerable due to normal and legitimate web site traffic transmitted on the port. Similar to the antivirus software the Application Based Firewall may receive periodic updates in order to combat the latest web vulnerabilities.

The intrusion prevention system IPS and or intrusion detection system IDS of the security system can identify and or prevent unauthorized access to the information system by blocking unwanted data types or fragments. As desired the IPS IDS can filter traffic based on data signatures or downloadable rules that may be updated on a regular or ad hoc basis. If a breach occurs the security system can enable the information system to notify authorized personnel such as ground control of the breach and can respond accordingly. In an exemplary embodiment the IDS IPS may be configured by adopting a third party open source solution such as SNORT provided by Sourcefire Inc. headquartered in Columbia Md. In a hard wired environment the IPS IDS may be most effective in detecting intrusion if it is configured to operate as the initial input to the security system thereby preventing malicious data packets from entering and possibly disabling the security system . In a wireless input environment however a person of ordinary skill could readily determine that the Wireless Intrusion Prevention System may be the initial point of entry to the security system . A WIPS may be capable of preventing unauthorized network access to the security system by wireless devices.

As desired the security system can include a payment processing system . The payment processing system can be provided as a software or API application and or can process credit card transactions and other types of secure transactions. Preferably the payment processing system resides within the security system yet remains segmented from the rest of the information system due the sensitivity of the data housed in the payment processing system and the anticipated audits over the handling of the data. The APIs provided by the payment processing system may be capable of being called by other applications and LRUs but the PCI DSS compliant system preferably is entirely self contained thereby minimizing the scope of PCI DSS compliance.

Turning briefly to for example a plurality of local LRUs are illustrated as communicating with the security log file over a direct and secure connection . Exemplary LRUs can include an Aircraft Interface File Server Media Server A Content Server Disk Array a user interface system and or a seat electronics box SEB and or video seat electronics box VSEB and or premium seat electronics box PSEB without limitation. Exemplary LRUs are shown and described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 675 849 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ROUTING COMMUNICATION SIGNALS VIA A DATA DISTRIBUTION NETWORK and in co pending United States patent application entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RECEIVING BROADCAST CONTENT ON A MOBILE PLATFORM DURING TRAVEL application Ser. No. 12 237 253 filed on Sep. 24 2008 which are assigned to the assignee of the present application and the respective disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and for all purposes. These LRUs may have a need to generate security log files however it may not be feasible to store the log files on the respective local LRUs due to their unsecured nature and or lack of adequate storage.

In an effort to secure transmission between LRUs and the secure log file storage each LRU configured to interface with the secure log file may be configured to broadcast a unique identifier to the secure log file receiver system. This interaction may adopt certificate based authentication that is keyed to either or both of each LRUs IP or MAC address. As security log files are generated over Syslog UDP port the security log files may be written to the secure log file storage which may comprise one or more hard drive compact flash device solid state device and or any other adequate storage mechanism. As desired the log files may also be encrypted by using Advanced Encryption Standard AES or other adequate encryption means. The security system preferably is configured to provide the security log files stored within the secure log file storage to the remote processing system shown in via a secure Universal Serial Bus USB connection a secure cellular communication connection and or a secure broadband communication connection of the security system . Thereby the processing system can receive information related to any denial of service DoS attack data snooping and other types of data security incidents detected by the security system and can trace the security risk to its origin and or identify the attack methodology used for preparing a response to the security incidents.

Returning to the security system can receive data and other information from the information system and can provide data and other information to the information system . The security system can communicate with the information system in any conventional wired and or wireless manner including in the manner set forth below with reference to the communication or distribution system shown in and . Preferably the security system and the information system communicate via a wired communication connect such as a fiber optic communication connection to help ensure secure communications between the security system and the information system .

The security system likewise can provide secure information to a processing system shown in that is remote from the information system . For example the security system can provide sensitive commercial transaction information such as credit card payment data to the remote processing system for subsequent processing and completion of the commercial transaction. The security system can provide the commercial transaction information to the remote processing system in any conventional manner. An exemplary wireless manner of transmitting the commercial transaction information to the remote processing system can include secure cellular communication connection and or secure broadband communication connection whereas a secure Universal Serial Bus USB connection is an illustrative manner for transmitting the commercial transaction information to the remote processing system in a wired manner. If installed on an aircraft B shown in for example the information system can comprise a conventional aircraft passenger in flight entertainment system such as the Series 2000 3000 eFX and or eX2 in flight entertainment system as manufactured by Panasonic Avionics Corporation formerly known as Matsushita Avionics Systems Corporation of Lake Forest Calif. and can include Panasonic Avionics eXconnect system that supports broadband communications with a terrestrial Earth station.

The remote processing system can be provided in any suitable manner based for example upon the type of data being transmitted. Exemplary remote processing systems are shown and described in co pending United States patent applications entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MANAGING CONTENT ON MOBILE PLATFORMS application Ser. No. 11 123 327 filed on May 6 2005 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RECEIVING BROADCAST CONTENT ON A MOBILE PLATFORM DURING TRAVEL application Ser. No. 12 237 253 filed on Sep. 24 2008 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERFORMING REAL TIME DATA ANALYSIS application Ser. No. 12 638 655 filed on Dec. 15 2009 which are assigned to the assignee of the present application and the respective disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and for all purposes.

One manner by which data can propagate through the security system is illustrated in . Turning to the security system is shown as including at least the intrusion prevention system IPS and or intrusion detection system IDS the antivirus software and the Application Based Firewall . The intrusion prevention system IPS and or intrusion detection system IDS can receive inbound data traffic in any conventional wired and or wireless manner via the initial input to the security system . Receiving the inbound data traffic the intrusion prevention system IPS and or intrusion detection system IDS can filter the inbound data traffic based upon data signature information. Thereby the security system can block any unwanted data types and or data fragments from being transmitted to the information system .

The intrusion prevention system IPS and or intrusion detection system IDS is shown as providing the filtered inbound data traffic to the antivirus software . The antivirus software can inspect the filtered inbound data traffic against one or more virus signature and or malware files. As desired the antivirus software likewise can determine a data type for the filtered inbound data traffic. If the filtered inbound data traffic is determined to include a virus and or malware and or a prohibited data type the antivirus software blocks the filtered inbound data traffic otherwise the antivirus software permits the filtered inbound data traffic to be transmitted to the Application Based Firewall . Receiving the filtered inbound data traffic from the antivirus software the Application Based Firewall inspects the filtered inbound data traffic for web applications. In other words the Application Based Firewall validates the filtered inbound data traffic for web applications such as Structured Query Language SQL injection and or Cross site scripting XSS .

The filtered inbound data traffic that is validated by the Application Based Firewall can be provided to the information system via the output of the security system . Alternatively and or additionally the validated inbound data traffic can be provided to the remote processing system shown in via the secure Universal Serial Bus USB connection the secure cellular communication connection and or the secure broadband communication connection of the security system in the manner set forth in more detail above with reference to . Although shown and described as comprising an exemplary arrangement of the intrusion prevention system IPS and or intrusion detection system IDS the antivirus software and the Application Based Firewall with reference to for purposes of illustration only the intrusion prevention system IPS and or intrusion detection system IDS the antivirus software and the Application Based Firewall can be provided in any suitable arrangement. The security system likewise can include a greater and or lesser number of security component modules.

If the information system includes a wireless distribution system B for example the security system shown in can further include a wireless fidelity Wi Fi device as illustrated in . The wireless fidelity Wi Fi device can be provided in the manner set forth in more detail above with reference to and is shown as being disposed between the initial input to the security system and the intrusion prevention system IPS and or intrusion detection system IDS . The wireless fidelity device thereby can receive and inspect inbound wireless data traffic for denial of service DoS attacks data snooping and other types of wireless data security risks. Advantageously the wireless fidelity device can block any unwanted inbound wireless data traffic and can provide the wanted inbound wireless data traffic to the intrusion prevention system IPS and or intrusion detection system IDS the antivirus software and the Application Based Firewall for further inspection such as filtering and or validation in the manner discussed in more detail above with reference to . The processed inbound data traffic thereby can be provided to the information system via the output of the security system and or to the remote processing system shown in via the secure Universal Serial Bus USB connection the secure cellular communication connection and or the secure broadband communication connection of the security system in the manner described above.

Turning to the security system is illustrated as including the Hardware Security Module HSM . The Hardware Security Module is provided in the manner discussed in more detail above with reference to . The information system is shown at A as receiving payment application information media content public key infrastructure PKI authentication data and or any other relevant type of inbound data traffic. If the inbound data traffic includes a request for encryption decryption key information the information system at B can provide the request to the Hardware Security Module via the initial input to the security system . At C the Hardware Security Module can responds to the request by providing the requested encryption decryption key information to the information system via the output of the security system . The information system thereby can provide at D the requested encryption decryption key information to a third party application that requires the encryption decryption key information for encrypting and or decrypting the inbound data traffic.

Turning to the security system is illustrated as including the payment processing system . The payment processing system preferably is provided in the manner discussed in more detail above with reference to and provides secure payment application code storage. As illustrated in the payment processing system exchange payment application data with the information system via the initial input and the output of the security system . The payment processing system likewise can exchange payment application data with the remote processing system via the secure Universal Serial Bus USB connection the secure cellular communication connection and or the secure broadband communication connection of the security system in the manner set forth in more detail above. Thereby payment software applications such as application programming interfaces APIs and other payment application code used in the payment application process can be securely stored within the security system wherein other applications and or LRUs can access the software applications stored within the payment processing system .

Storage of the software applications within the payment processing system advantageously segments the payment software applications and or the payment application data from the remainder of the information system . With reference to the Payment Card Industry PCI standard for example processing of payment application data can be subject to audit. By maintaining the payment software applications and or the payment application data within the payment processing system performance of audits can be facilitated because the payment information is segmented. Thereby only the security system rather than the entire information system requires examination during an audit minimizing the scope of the information system that is subject to compliance under the PCI standard.

Although the information system can be disposed in a fixed location such as a building the information system likewise can advantageously be applied in mobile system applications. Turning to the information system is shown as comprising a vehicle information system that can be configured for installation aboard a wide variety of vehicles . Exemplary types of vehicles can include an automobile A shown in an aircraft B shown in a bus a recreational vehicle a boat and or a locomotive or any other type of passenger vehicle without limitation. If installed on an aircraft B as illustrated in for example the vehicle information system can comprise a conventional aircraft passenger in flight entertainment system such as the Series 2000 3000 eFX and or eX2 in flight entertainment system as manufactured by Panasonic Avionics Corporation formerly known as Matsushita Avionics Systems Corporation of Lake Forest Calif.

As shown in the vehicle information system comprises at least one conventional content source and one or more user or passenger interface systems that communicate via a real time content distribution system . Each content source can be provided in the manner set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 7 715 783 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RECEIVING BROADCAST CONTENT ON A MOBILE PLATFORM DURING INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL and in the co pending United States patent applications entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DOWNLOADING FILES application Ser. No. 10 772 565 filed on Feb. 4 2004 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MANAGING CONTENT ON MOBILE PLATFORMS application Ser. No. 11 123 327 filed on May 6 2005 entitled PORTABLE MEDIA DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PRESENTING VIEWING CONTENT DURING TRAVEL application Ser. No. 11 154 749 filed on Jun. 15 2005 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INTERFACING A PORTABLE MEDIA DEVICE WITH A VEHICLE INFORMATION SYSTEM application Ser. No. 12 210 624 filed on Sep. 15 2008 entitled PORTABLE USER CONTROL DEVICE AND METHOD FOR VEHICLE INFORMATION SYSTEMS application Ser. No. 12 210 689 filed on Sep. 15 2008 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RECEIVING BROADCAST CONTENT ON A MOBILE PLATFORM DURING TRAVEL application Ser. No. 12 237 253 filed on Sep. 24 2008 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PRESENTING ADVERTISEMENT CONTENT ON A MOBILE PLATFORM DURING TRAVEL application Ser. No. 12 245 521 filed on Oct. 3 2008 which are assigned to the assignee of the present application and the respective disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and for all purposes.

The content sources can include one or more internal content sources such as server system A that are installed aboard the vehicle and or remote or terrestrial content sources B that can be external from the vehicle . The server system A can be provided as an information system controller for providing overall system control functions for the vehicle information system and or at least one media or file server system A for storing viewing content such as preprogrammed viewing content and or downloaded viewing content D as desired. The server system A can include and or communicate with one or more conventional peripheral media storage systems not shown including optical media devices such as a digital video disk DVD system or a compact disk CD system and or magnetic media systems such as a video cassette recorder VCR system or a hard disk drive HDD system of any suitable kind for storing the preprogrammed content and or the downloaded viewing content D.

The viewing content can comprise any conventional type of audio and or video viewing content such as stored or time delayed viewing content and or live or real time viewing content in the manner set forth in the above referenced U.S. Pat. No. 7 715 783 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RECEIVING BROADCAST CONTENT ON A MOBILE PLATFORM DURING INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL and in the above referenced co pending United States patent applications entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DOWNLOADING FILES application Ser. No. 10 772 565 filed on Feb. 4 2004 and entitled PORTABLE MEDIA DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PRESENTING VIEWING CONTENT DURING TRAVEL application Ser. No. 11 154 749 filed on Jun. 15 2005. Exemplary viewing content can include television programming content music content podcast content photograph album content audiobook content and or movie content without limitation.

As desired the viewing content can include geographical information in the manner set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 6 661 353 entitled METHOD FOR DISPLAYING INTERACTIVE FLIGHT MAP INFORMATION which is assigned to the assignee of the present application and the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes. Alternatively and or additionally to entertainment content such as live satellite television programming and or live satellite radio programming the viewing content likewise can include two way communications such as real time access to the Internet C shown in and or telecommunications in the manner set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 568 484 entitled TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USE ON COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT AND OTHER VEHICLES which is assigned to the assignee of the present application and the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes. The exemplary viewing content as shown and described herein are not exhaustive and are provided herein for purposes of illustration only and not for purposes of limitation.

Being configured to distribute and or present the viewing content provided by one or more selected content sources the vehicle information system can communicate with the content sources in real time and in any conventional manner including via wired and or wireless communications. The vehicle information system and the terrestrial content source B for example can communicate in any conventional wireless manner including directly and or indirectly via an intermediate communication system such as a satellite communication system A. The vehicle information system thereby can receive download viewing content D from a selected terrestrial content source B and or transmit upload viewing content U including navigation and other control instructions to the terrestrial content source B. As desired the terrestrial content source B can be configured to communicate with other terrestrial content sources not shown . The terrestrial content source B is shown in as providing access to the Internet C. Although shown and described as comprising the satellite communication system A for purposes of illustration the communication system can comprise any conventional type of wireless communication system such as a cellular communication system not shown and or an Aircraft Ground Information System AGIS communication system not shown .

To facilitate communications with the terrestrial content sources B the vehicle information system can include an antenna system and a transceiver system for receiving the viewing content from the remote or terrestrial content sources B as shown in . The antenna system preferably is disposed outside the vehicle such as an exterior surface of a fuselage of the aircraft B. The antenna system can receive viewing content from the terrestrial content source B and provide the received viewing content as processed by the transceiver system to a computer system of the vehicle information system . The computer system can provide the received viewing content to the media or content server system A and or to one or more of the user interfaces as desired. Although shown and described as being separate systems for purposes of illustration the computer system and the media server system A can be at least partially integrated.

The vehicle information system elements including the content sources and the user interface systems are shown in as communicating via the content distribution system . illustrates an exemplary content distribution system for the vehicle information system . The content distribution system of couples and supports communication between a headend system H which includes the content sources and the plurality of user interface systems . The distribution system as shown in is provided in the manner set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 7 675 849 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ROUTING COMMUNICATION SIGNALS VIA A DATA DISTRIBUTION NETWORK and in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 596 647 5 617 331 and 5 953 429 each entitled INTEGRATED VIDEO AND AUDIO SIGNAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USE ON COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT AND OTHER VEHICLES which are assigned to the assignee of the present application and the respective disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and for all purposes. Alternatively and or additionally the distribution system can be provided in the manner set forth in the co pending United States patent application OPTICAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DISTRIBUTING CONTENT ABOARD A MOBILE PLATFORM DURING TRAVEL Ser. No. 12 367 406 filed Feb. 6 2009 which is assigned to the assignee of the present application and the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

The content distribution system for example can be provided as a conventional wired and or wireless communication network including a telephone network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a campus area network CAN personal area network PAN and or a wireless local area network WLAN of any kind Exemplary wireless local area networks include wireless fidelity Wi Fi networks in accordance with Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE Standard 802.11 and or wireless metropolitan area networks MANs which also are known as WiMax Wireless Broadband in accordance with IEEE Standard 802.16. Preferably being configured to support high data transfer rates the content distribution system may comprise a high speed Ethernet network such as any type of Fast Ethernet such as 100 Base X and or 100 Base T communication network and or Gigabit such as 1000 Base X and or 1000 Base T Ethernet communication network with a typical data transfer rate of at least approximately one hundred megabits per second 100 Mbps . To achieve high data transfer rates in a wireless communications environment free space optics or laser technology millimeter wave or microwave technology and or Ultra Wideband UWB technology can be utilized to support communications among the various system resources as desired.

As desired the distribution system likewise can include a network management system not shown provided in the manner set forth in co pending United States patent applications entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IMPROVING NETWORK RELIABILITY application Ser. No. 10 773 523 filed on Feb. 6 2004 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IMPROVING NETWORK RELIABILITY application Ser. No. 11 086 510 filed on Mar. 21 2005 which are assigned to the assignee of the present application and the respective disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and for all purposes.

As illustrated in the distribution system can be provided as a plurality of area distribution boxes ADBs a plurality of floor disconnect boxes FDBs and a plurality of seat electronics boxes SEBs and or video seat electronics boxes VSEBs and or premium seat electronics boxes PSEBs being configured to communicate in real time via a plurality of wired and or wireless communication connections . The distribution system likewise can include a switching system for providing an interface between the distribution system and the headend system H. The switching system can comprise a conventional switching system such as an Ethernet switching system and is configured to couple the headend system H with the area distribution boxes . Each of the area distribution boxes is coupled with and communicates with the switching system .

Each of the area distribution boxes in turn is coupled with and communicates with at least one floor disconnect box . Although the area distribution boxes and the associated floor disconnect boxes can be coupled in any conventional configuration the associated floor disconnect boxes preferably are disposed in a star network topology about a central area distribution box as illustrated in . Each floor disconnect box is coupled with and services a plurality of daisy chains of seat electronics boxes . The seat electronics boxes in turn are configured to communicate with the user interface systems . Each seat electronics box can support one or more of the user interface systems .

The switching systems the area distribution boxes ADBs the floor disconnect boxes FDBs the seat electronics boxes SEBs and or video seat electronics boxes VSEBs and or premium seat electronics boxes PSEBs the antenna system the transceiver system the content source the server system A the headend system H video interface systems shown in audio interface systems shown in user input systems shown in and other system resources of the vehicle information system preferably are provided as line replaceable units LRUs . The use of LRUs facilitate maintenance of the vehicle information system because a defective LRU can simply be removed from the vehicle information system and replaced with a new or different LRU . The defective LRU thereafter can be repaired for subsequent installation. Advantageously the use of LRUs can promote flexibility in configuring the content distribution system by permitting ready modification of the number arrangement and or configuration of the system resources of the content distribution system . The content distribution system likewise can be readily upgraded by replacing any obsolete LRUs with new LRUs .

As desired the floor disconnect boxes advantageously can be provided as routing systems and or interconnected in the manner set forth in the above referenced U.S. Pat. No. 7 675 849 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ROUTING COMMUNICATION SIGNALS VIA A DATA DISTRIBUTION NETWORK. The distribution system can include at least one FDB internal port bypass connection A and or at least one SEB loopback connection B. Each FDB internal port bypass connection A is a communication connection that permits floor disconnect boxes associated with different area distribution boxes to directly communicate. Each SEB loopback connection B is a communication connection that directly couples the last seat electronics box in each daisy chain of seat electronics boxes for a selected floor disconnect box as shown in . Each SEB loopback connection B therefore forms a loopback path among the daisy chained seat electronics boxes coupled with the relevant floor disconnect box .

Returning to the user interface systems are provided for selecting viewing content and for presenting the selected viewing content . As desired the user interface systems can comprise conventional passenger interfaces and can be provided in the manner set forth in the above referenced co pending United States patent application entitled PORTABLE MEDIA DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PRESENTING VIEWING CONTENT DURING TRAVEL application Ser. No. 11 154 749 filed on Jun. 15 2005 as well as in the manner set forth in the co pending United States patent application entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PRESENTING HIGH QUALITY VIDEO TO PASSENGERS ON A MOBILE PLATFORM Application Ser. No. 60 673 171 filed on Apr. 19 2005 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

The video interface systems and the audio interface systems can be installed at any suitable cabin surface such as a seatback wall ceiling and or bulkhead or an armrest of a passenger seat in any conventional manner including via a mounting system provided in the manner set forth co pending United States patent applications entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MOUNTING USER INTERFACE DEVICES application Ser. No. 11 828 193 filed on Jul. 25 2007 and entitled USER INTERFACE DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PRESENTING VIEWING CONTENT application Ser. No. 11 835 371 filed on Aug. 7 2007 which are assigned to the assignee of the present application and the respective disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and for all purposes.

As shown in the user interface system likewise can include an input system for permitting the user or passenger to communicate with the vehicle information system such as via an exchange of control signals . For example the input system can permit the user to enter one or more user instructions for controlling the operation of the vehicle information system . Illustrative user instructions can include instructions for initiating communication with the content source instructions for selecting viewing content for presentation and or instructions for controlling the presentation of the selected viewing content . If a fee is required for accessing the viewing content payment information likewise can be entered via the input system .

The input system can be provided in any conventional manner and typically includes one or more switches or pushbuttons such as a keyboard or a keypad and or a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or stylus. As desired the input system can be at least partially integrated with and or separable from the associated video interface system and or audio interface system . For example the video interface system and the input system can be provided as a touchscreen display system. The input system likewise can include one or more input ports not shown for coupling a peripheral input device not shown such as a full size computer keyboard an external mouse and or a game pad with the vehicle information system .

Preferably at least one of the user interface systems includes a wired and or wireless access point such as a conventional communication port or connector for coupling a personal media device shown in with the vehicle information system . Passengers not shown who are traveling aboard the vehicle thereby can enjoy personally selected viewing content during travel. The access point is located proximally to an associated passenger seat and can be provided at any suitable cabin surface such as a seatback wall ceiling and or bulkhead.

Turning to the vehicle information system is shown as communicating with one or more personal media devices . Each personal media device can store the audio and or video viewing content and can be provided as a handheld device such as a laptop computer a palmtop computer a personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone an iPod digital electronic media device an iPhone digital electronic media device and or a MPEG Audio Layer 3 MP3 device. Illustrative personal media devices are shown and described in the above referenced U.S. Pat. No. 7 715 783 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RECEIVING BROADCAST CONTENT ON A MOBILE PLATFORM DURING INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL and in the above referenced co pending United States patent applications entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DOWNLOADING FILES application Ser. No. 10 772 565 filed on Feb. 4 2004 entitled PORTABLE MEDIA DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PRESENTING VIEWING CONTENT DURING TRAVEL application Ser. No. 11 154 749 filed on Jun. 15 2005 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INTERFACING A PORTABLE MEDIA DEVICE WITH A VEHICLE INFORMATION SYSTEM application Ser. No. 12 210 624 filed on Sep. 15 2008 entitled MEDIA DEVICE INTERFACE SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR VEHICLE INFORMATION SYSTEMS application Ser. No. 12 210 636 filed on Sep. 15 2008 entitled MEDIA DEVICE INTERFACE SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR VEHICLE INFORMATION SYSTEMS application Ser. No. 12 210 652 filed on Sep. 15 2008 and entitled PORTABLE USER CONTROL DEVICE AND METHOD FOR VEHICLE INFORMATION SYSTEMS application Ser. No. 12 210 689 filed on Sep. 15 2008 which are assigned to the assignee of the present application and the respective disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and for all purposes.

The illustrated personal media devices each include a video display system for visually presenting the viewing content and an audio system for audibly presenting the viewing content . Each personal media device can include a user control system which can be provided in any conventional manner and typically includes one or more switches or pushbuttons such as a keyboard or a keypad and or a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or stylus. The personal media devices thereby can select desired viewing content and control the manner in which the selected viewing content is received and or presented.

The personal media devices likewise include a communication port or connector . The communication port enables the personal media devices to communicate with the vehicle information system via the access points of the user interface systems . As illustrated with personal media device A the communication port and the access points can supported wireless communications whereas support for wired communications between the communication port and the access points via a communication cable assembly is shown with personal media device B. When the communication port and the access points are in communication the vehicle information system supports a simple manner for permitting the associated personal media device to be integrated with the vehicle information system using a user friendly communication interface.

When the personal media device and the vehicle information system are in communication the vehicle information system can perform a plurality of integration tasks simultaneously enabling the personal media device to become fully integrated with the vehicle information system via a selected access point . The system elements of the vehicle information system and the personal media device thereby become interchangeable. The personal media device likewise can receive control signals or commands and or operating power from the vehicle information system . Thereby the personal media device advantageously can become a seamless part of the vehicle information system .

For example user instructions shown in for controlling the operation of the vehicle information system can be provided via the input system of the vehicle information system and or the user control system of the personal media device . In other words the input system of the vehicle information system and or the user control system of the personal media device can be used to select viewing content and control the manner in which the selected viewing content is received and or presented. The selected viewing content can be provided by a relevant content source shown in of the vehicle information system and or by storage media not shown disposed within the personal media device . A video portion of the selected viewing content thereby can be presented via the video presentation system of the vehicle information system and or the video display system of the personal media device . The audio presentation system of the vehicle information system and or the audio system of the personal media device can be used to present an audio portion of the selected viewing content . If the video display system of the personal media device is much smaller than the video presentation system of the vehicle information system a passenger may prefer to view the selected viewing content via the larger video presentation system .

When no longer in use and or direct physical contact with the personal media device is not otherwise required the personal media device can be stored at the passenger seat . For example the passenger seat can include a storage compartment for providing storage of the personal media device . The storage compartment can be provided in any conventional manner and at any suitable portion of the passenger seat . As illustrated with passenger seat B the personal media device can be placed in a storage pocket B formed in the armrest of the passenger seat B. The storage compartment likewise can be provided on the seatback and or the headrest of the passenger seat . Storage compartment A of passenger seat A for example is shown as being formed on the lower seatback of the passenger seat A. As desired the storage compartment can comprise an overhead storage compartment a door storage compartment a storage compartment provided underneath the passenger seat or any other type of conventional storage compartment such as a glove compartment trunk or closet available in the passenger vehicle .

Alternatively and or additionally it may be desired to further enhance the security of the vehicle information system via at least one biometric device as illustrated in . The biometric device can comprise any conventional type of biometric device such as a face scanner a hand scanner a fingerprint scanner a retina scanner and or an iris scanner can be employed to help prevent unauthorized access to the vehicle information system . Advantageously the biometric device uses human biological characteristics to identify a user rather than relying on username password type authentication which is prone to being forgotten or compromised in any environment. The biometric device can be disposed at any suitable location within a passenger cabin shown in of a passenger vehicle shown in such as a selected video interface system of the vehicle information system as shown in . Preferably the selected video interface system comprises a crew panel system C that is accessible only by authorized personnel such as crew members and or maintenance workers. The biometric device thereby can permit the crew members and other authorized personnel a method of authenticating their respective identities with the vehicle information system minimizing the risk of unauthorized access that has the potential to undermine all other security objectives.

The described embodiments are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms and specific examples thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are herein described in detail. The described embodiments however are not to be limited to the particular forms or methods disclosed but to the contrary the present disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives.

