---

title: Dynamic nano-inscribing for continuous and seamless metal and polymer nanogratings
abstract: Nanoscale grating structure can be utilized in many practical applications in optics, flat-panel displays and bio-sensors. A Dynamic Nano-Inscribing (Dynamic Nano-Inscribing) technique is disclosed for directly creating large-area, truly continuous nano-grating patterns in a variety of metal or polymer materials with feature size down to sub-50 nm and at very high speed (10 cm/sec). Dynamic Nano-Inscribing is carried out under either ambient temperature or with a brief heating time on the order of ten microseconds, which minimizes damage on UV or thermo-sensitive functional materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08752608&OS=08752608&RS=08752608
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 08752608
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100415
---
This invention was made with government support under Grant No. 0700718 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention

This application is a National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2010 031169 filed Apr. 15 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 169 398 filed on Apr. 15 2009. The entire disclosure of each of the above applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to nanofabrication techniques and more particularly relates to a dynamic nano inscribing process and apparatus for nanofabrication.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art. This section also provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

The increasing demands for nano scale grating and channel structures in optics and bio industries have stimulated many emerging technologies such as laser interference lithography nano ruling and nanoimprint lithography NIL . Unfortunately the current process and throughput of NIL which is on the order of a few minutes per wafer is insufficient to meet the currently demands of many practical applications such as photonics biotechnology and organic optoelectronics.

Recently however High Speed Roll to Roll Nanoimprint Lithography R2RNIL was developed to provide improved throughput while preserving nanoscale resolution. Unfortunately the UV or high temperature heating process inherent in R2RNIL may damage sensitive resist materials. Moreover the method of R2RNIL results in an unavoidable seam region where the two ends of the flexible mold meet on the roller. This unavoidable seam region interrupts the otherwise continuous patterns. Still further it has been difficult to fabricate the large area original imprint molds that are used in R2RNIL to replicate flexible stamps.

According to the principles of the present teachings nanoscale grating structure can be utilized in many practical applications in optics flat panel displays and bio sensors. A Dynamic Nano Inscribing Dynamic Nano Inscribing technique is disclosed for directly creating large area truly continuous nano grating patterns in a variety of metal or polymer materials with feature size down to sub 50 nm and at very high speed 10 cm sec . Dynamic Nano Inscribing is carried out under either ambient temperature or with a brief heating time on the order of ten microseconds which minimizes damage on UV or thermo sensitive functional materials.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to or coupled to another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly engaged to directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Spatially relative terms such as inner outer beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the example term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

According to the principles of the present teachings a Dynamic Nano Inscribing DNI technique is provided that offers drastically increased throughput and nanoscale resolution while providing continuous and seamless grating patterns at ambient condition or with very short time heating. Using Dynamic Nano Inscribing according to the present teachings high speed nanopatterning of metals and several important functional polymers has been demonstrated and illustrate its versatile use in producing free form array patterns and patterning over curved surfaces.

As illustrated in the mechanism of the Dynamic Nano Inscribing process according to some embodiments used to create metallic nanopatterns on a polymer substrate uses the sharp edge of slightly tilted cleaved Si mold to directly inscribe on moving substrate thereby creating seamless micro and nanopatterns in a continuous fashion. Dynamic Nano Inscribing shares similarities with room temperature nanoimprinting and relies on the plastic deformation of the inscribed material. However in contrast to nanoimprinting the deformation in Dynamic Nano Inscribing according to the present teachings takes place under gradually increased pressure over a very small contacting region where the sharp edge of the tilted Si mold engages the substrate . As a result continuous linear patterns with infinite length on various polymers metals or even hard materials such as Indium Tin Oxide ITO can be successfully created by using very low applied forces several Newtons and with a speed drastically faster than other nanopatterning techniques.

The Dynamic Nano Inscribing process can be separated into four sequential steps as depicted in . First in region the mold makes the initial contact with the substrate material to be inscribed. The substrate material can comprise one or more layers of materials such as but not limited to a top layer an intermediate layer and a base layer . In some embodiments top layer can be a metal layer intermediate layer can be a polymer later and base layer can be an elastic cushion layer. It should be recognized that other material compositions or orientations can be realized. Therefore in region mold can make initial contact with top metal layer of substrate .

Second in region the intermediate polymer layer of substrate can be imprinted with gradually increased pressure as the Si mold moves relative thereto. Third in region the sharp edge of the cleaved Si mold defines the location where most of the plastic deformation occurs since the pressure is the highest in this region. Finally in the elastic recovery region the pressed polymer in intermediate polymer layer recovers by a certain amount and determines the final geometry. Note that throughout the whole Dynamic Nano Inscribing process the metal layer still remains on top of the imprinted polymer layer without being removed which supports the plastic deformation as the pattern formation mechanism rather than material removal.

There are several important properties a substrate material should possess to maximize the Dynamic Nano Inscribing process. Since Dynamic Nano Inscribing relies on the plastic deformation of the polymer material in intermediate layer materials with lower modulus are preferred to achieve large deformation under a given applied force. Moreover toughness is another very important property in Dynamic Nano Inscribing. Material having a low toughness can be easily fractured by the sharp edge of the Si mold and can generate debris during the Dynamic Nano Inscribing process and the accumulated debris further hampers the inscribing process. Therefore materials with sufficiently high toughness are preferred for faithful and debris free pattern formation.

In some embodiments the optional elastomeric cushion layer beneath the inscribed polymer layer can be used to ensure conformal contact between the substrate and the edge of the Si mold . Specifically this can aid in situations where the substrate is not perfectly flat but has terraces that affect the cleaving step.

Dynamic Nano Inscribing can create debris free nanoscale gratings without causing mold damage because it employs a large negative rake angle 

The cross sectional profile of the metal nano gratings created by the Dynamic Nano Inscribing process depends on the end shape of the grating structure of the mold . As shown in when a Si grating mold with a flat tip is used the metal layer deforms and follows the shape of the inscribed polymer pattern and forms continuous metal gratings. On the other hand when the metal layer is inscribed by a mold with a sharp tip the metal film breaks at the midpoint where it meets the tip of the mold . As a result metal lines with discrete metal caps are formed on top of the inscribed polymer gratings .

Dynamic Nano Inscribing can proceed in straight linear fashion or in free forms by changing the moving direction of the substrate with respect to the orientation of the mold grating . shows angled but continuous 200 nm period gratings that were created by sharply turning the substrate during the room temperature Dynamic Nano Inscribing process RT DNI . Such a feature is impossible to achieve by the regular NIL process using a linear grating mold. Similarly illustrates square shaped gold nano patterns fabricated by two consecutive Dynamic Nano Inscribings carried out in orthogonal directions.

Dynamic Nano Inscribing is not limited to only polymeric and ductile metallic materials. Direct inscribing of much harder materials such as conductive Indium Tin Oxide ITO is also successfully demonstrated by RT Dynamic Nano Inscribing. shows 700 nm period nano gratings directly created on an ITO coated PET substrate. ITO is a very hard material having a modulus 97 GPa but slightly smaller than that of Si. Therefore it is very difficult to directly pattern on ITO surface by conventional fabrication techniques but Dynamic Nano Inscribing provides a unique solution for ITO nano patterning.

In some applications conventional roll to roll printing technique can offer high speed patterning in a continuous fashion. But roller based printing technology generally requires a large area flexible mold to wrap around a roller surface and at least one seam per revolution exists where the two ends of the flexible mold meet. However in the Dynamic Nano Inscribing of the present teachings infinitely long and seamless grating patterns can be generated by using just a small slice of the cleaved Si mold . This feature could find potential application in but not limited to large format displays and in creating long polymer nanofibers. In this respect a high speed roll to roll process can fully take advantages of the many benefits offered by Dynamic Nano Inscribing.

Referring now to a 22 inch long half inch wide 700 nm period seamless nano grating pattern is illustrated that was created on a polycarbonate strip using roll to roll Dynamic Nano Inscribing. The inset of shows the SEM image of the grating. In this case the web speed is 10 cm sec which is significantly faster than the NIL technique. It should be understood that the web speed can further be increased by at least an order of magnitude or higher in practical applications by proper tool design. Such high speeds are possible because Dynamic Nano Inscribing relies on the plastic deformation which can occur on a time scale of micro sec. In comparison regular NIL relies on the filling of the cavity features on the mold by the polymer materials which takes much longer time seconds to minutes depending on the material viscosity . In addition continuous and curved nanograting patterns over a large area is another unique capability of Dynamic Nano Inscribing which is very difficult to achieve by other nanopatterning techniques. In concentric circular nano gratings are demonstrated on a fluoropolymer film ethylene tetrafluoroethylene fabricated by a rotating Dynamic Nano Inscribing process. Such structures may find potential applications in magnetic data storage such as discrete track media.

Furthermore since Dynamic Nano Inscribing only requires essentially line contact with the substrate it offers a convenient method to pattern on curved surfaces. As an example 700 nm period nano gratings created on a curved surface are shown in . In this result the patterns are inscribed on a common photoresist SU 8 which is coated on the hemi cylindrical PDMS surface and subsequently cured by UV light. Nano scale metal electrodes or patterned organic materials on the curved surface are potentially useful for light detection or energy generating devices.

Even though Dynamic Nano Inscribing can be performed in most cases under the ambient environment heating of the polymer layer during the inscribing process can effectively reduce the modulus of the material and enhance its toughness which can lead to more faithful polymer patterns. However bulk heating of the whole substrate results in significant pattern deformation due to polymer flow at elevated temperatures. Therefore according to the principles of the present teachings conductive heating of the Si mold can be used to localize the heating to only a very small region of the moving substrate where the Si mold is engaged. Such localized heating allows the patterned structure to quickly cool down after the inscription and also does not affect the inscribed structures away from the mold contact region. As illustrated in the localized heating assisted Dynamic Nano Inscribing LH DNI is provided. The Si mold can be directly heated by a heating element with temperature controller HOTSET Inc. . As shown in the pattern depth in the polycarbonate polymer layer increases with temperature under the same applied force 4.2 N and web speed 2.5 mm sec conditions. Polycarbonate nano gratings fabricated at room temperature RT DNI show a shallow and rounded profile while the sample fabricated by localized heating assisted Dynamic Nano Inscribing at 140 C. a temperature slightly lower than the Tg of polycarbonate 150 C. shows much deeper trenches and sharper edges representing a more faithful replication of the grating structure on the original mold .

In localized heating assisted Dynamic Nano Inscribing even though heat is applied the actual time for heat transfer to the substrate is only on the order of tens of microseconds which is several orders of magnitude shorter than the heating time used in a typical thermal NIL process. This can drastically minimize any potential damage to thermal sensitive materials. Applicant has demonstrated Dynamic Nano Inscribing on conductive polymer poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene PEDOT and an organic semiconductor conjugated polymer poly 3 hexylthiophene P3HT which are representative materials commonly used in organic electronics and organic optoelectronics. It has been found that nano patterned P3HT in organic photovoltaics shows enhanced light absorption and an increase in overall solar cell efficiency. In addition various techniques have been explored to pattern micro or nano structures on P3HT and PEDOT for applications in organic photovoltaics organic TFTs and organic LEDs. Compared to these referenced techniques Dynamic Nano Inscribing provides superior throughput and a simple one step process for patterning organic functional materials while minimizing possible thermal damage. and show 700 nm period nano gratings directly created on PEDOT and P3HT coated PET respectively by localized heating assisted Dynamic Nano Inscribing at 90 C.

It has also been found that the Dynamic Nano Inscribing process of the present teachings can be completed in an oxygen free environment to prevent the oxidation effect and further preserve the functionality of the conjugated polymers. A potential application is in the field of organic solar cells where Dynamic Nano Inscribing could be used to directly inscribe conjugated polymers to produce the ordered nanoscale interface between a donor and an acceptor organic semiconductors for efficient charge separation and charge transport.

As another example of patterning functional polymers Nano inscribing of NAFION film DuPont sulfonated tetrafluoroethylene based fluoropolymer copolymer an important polymer material in electrochemistry has been explored. NAFION film serves an important role as the ion exchange membrane in fuel cells due to its excellent proton conductivity and its thermal and mechanical stability. Recently it has been reported that nano patterning of NAFION can provide enhanced efficiency in micro fuel cells by increasing the electrochemical active surface areas. In well defined 700 nm period gratings are created in NAFION film by a simple Dynamic Nano Inscribing process using localized heating at 80 C.

Finally as an application in photonics it has been found that a metallic grating fabricated by a one step Dynamic Nano Inscribing can be used to construct negative refractive index metamaterials. Negative refraction requires a simultaneously negative permittivity and permeability. While negative permittivity is readily achievable in metallic structures due to plasmon dispersion negative permeability can only be obtained in specially designed artificial structures. Previously several variations of the so called split ring resonator SRR structures have been exploited to produce magnetic response and negative permeability. Recently an elongate SRR structure has been demonstrated by using direct laser writing and silver chemical vapor deposition which offers the advantage of normal incidence. To produce magnetic response and negative permeability at shorter wavelength ranges e.g. visible band the dimension of the subwavelength element in the structure has to be reduced accordingly. A Split Ring Resonant Grating SRRG structure fabricated by nanoimprinting and metal film deposition was studied which showed the potential of achieving negative refraction at visible wavelengths.

According to the present teachings one can fabricate 200 nm period 30 nm trench SRRG structure using the Dynamic Nano Inscribing process . To achieve this structure 20 nm thick silver is thermally deposited on a polycarbonate film and simply inscribed using a 200 nm period Si mold at room temperature. shows the transmittance spectra of the sample of for both TM transverse magnetic and TE transverse electric polarization showing particularly strong TM mode transmission valleys at visible wavelength range of 430 nm and 590 nm. Based on simulation it was determined that the valley at 430 nm is due to electrical resonance while the valley at 590 nm is due to magnetic resonance and leads to negative permeability. Further optimization of the structure to demonstrate negative index at visible band is currently underway. As compared with NIL and other nano fabrication techniques Dynamic Nano Inscribing provides a very simple single step process to create large area continuous nano metal grating patterns for negative index metamaterial applications.

In summary according to the principles of the present teachings a new nano patterning technique Dynamic Nano Inscribing for directly creating truly continuous nano grating patterns in a variety of metal and polymer materials at ambient temperature or with localized heating is provided. With a demonstrated resolution of at least 30 nm and a speed of at least 10 cm s it is envisioned that Dynamic Nano Inscribing can be applied into many practical applications in optics flat panel displays and bio industries that require a non toxic room temperature environment to produce well defined nanopatterns at extremely high speed.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the invention and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the invention.

