---

title: Method and system for reduction of decoding complexity in a communication system
abstract: Method and System for Utilization of an Outer Decoder in a Broadcast Services Communication System is described. Information to be transmitted is provided to a systematic portion of a plurality of transmit buffers and encoded by an outer decoder communicatively coupled to the transmit buffer. The resulting redundant bits are provided to a parity portion of each transmit buffer. The content of the transmit buffers, is multiplexed and encoded by an inner decoder to improve protection by adding redundancy. The receiving station recovers the transmitted information by an inverse process. Because a decoding complexity depends on the size of a systematic portion of the transmit buffer, reasoned compromise between a systematic portion size and number of transmit buffers yields decreased decoding complexity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08713400&OS=08713400&RS=08713400
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08713400
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100106
---
The present Application for Patent is a Continuation and claims priority to patent application Ser. No. 09 976 591 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR REDUCTION OF DECODING COMPLEXITY IN A COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Oct. 12 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 649 829 issued Jan. 19 2010 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to communication systems. More particularly the present invention relates to a system and method for reduction of decoding complexity in a communication system.

Communication systems have been developed to allow transmission of information signals from an origination station to a physically distinct destination station. In transmitting information signal from the origination station over a communication channel the information signal is first converted into a form suitable for efficient transmission over the communication channel. Conversion or modulation of the information signal involves varying a parameter of a carrier wave in accordance with the information signal in such a way that the spectrum of the resulting modulated carrier is confined within the communication channel bandwidth. At the destination station the original information signal is replicated from the modulated carrier wave received over the communication channel. Such a replication is generally achieved by using an inverse of the modulation process employed by the origination station.

Modulation also facilitates multiple access i.e. simultaneous transmission and or reception of several signals over a common communication channel. Multiple access communication systems often include a plurality of subscriber units requiring intermittent service of relatively short duration rather than continuous access to the common communication channel. Several multiple access techniques are known in the art such as time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA and amplitude modulation multiple access AM . Another type of a multiple access technique is a code division multiple access CDMA spread spectrum system that conforms to the TIA EIA IS 95 Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wide Band Spread Spectrum Cellular System hereinafter referred to as the IS 95 standard. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307 entitled SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS and U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM both assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

A multiple access communication system may be a wireless or wire line and may carry voice and or data. An example of a communication system carrying both voice and data is a system in accordance with the IS 95 standard which specifies transmitting voice and data over the communication channel. A method for transmitting data in code channel frames of fixed size is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 504 773 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE FORMATTING OF DATA FOR TRANSMISSION assigned to the assignee of the present invention. In accordance with the IS 95 standard the data or voice is partitioned into code channel frames that are 20 milliseconds wide with data rates as high as 14.4 Kbps. Additional examples of a communication systems carrying both voice and data comprise communication systems conforming to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP embodied in a set of documents including Document Nos. 3G TS 25.211 3G TS 25.212 3G TS 25.213 and 3G TS 25.214 the W CDMA standard or TR 45.5 Physical Layer Standard for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems the IS 2000 standard .

An example of a data only communication system is a high data rate HDR communication system that conforms to the TIA EIA IS 856 industry standard hereinafter referred to as the IS 856 standard. This HDR system is based on a communication system disclosed in co pending application Ser. No. 08 963 386 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HIGH RATE PACKET DATA TRANSMISSION filed Nov. 3 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 574 211 issued Jun. 3 2003 and assigned to the assignee of the present invention. The HDR communication system defines a set of data rates ranging from 38.4 kbps to 2.4 Mbps at which an access point AP may send data to a subscriber station access terminal AT . Because the AP is analogous to a base station the terminology with respect to cells and sectors is the same as with respect to voice systems.

In a multiple access communication system communications between users are conducted through one or more base stations. A first user on one subscriber station communicates to a second user on a second subscriber station by transmitting data on a reverse link to a base station. The base station receives the data and can route the data to another base station. The data is transmitted on a forward link of the same base station or the other base station to the second subscriber station. The forward link refers to transmission from a base station to a subscriber station and the reverse link refers to transmission from a subscriber station to a base station. Likewise the communication can be conducted between a first user on one subscriber station and a second user on a landline station. A base station receives the data from the user on a reverse link and routes the data through a public switched telephone network PSTN to the second user. In many communication systems e.g. IS 95 W CDMA IS 2000 the forward link and the reverse link are allocated separate frequencies.

The above described wireless communication service is an example of a point to point communication service. In contrast broadcast services provide point to multipoint communication service. The basic model of a broadcast system consists of a broadcast net of users served by one or more central stations which transmit information with a certain contents e.g. news movies sports events and the like to the users. Each broadcast net user s subscriber station monitors a common broadcast forward link signal. Because the central station fixedly determines the content the users are generally not communicating back. Examples of common usage of broadcast services communication systems are TV broadcast radio broadcast and the like. Such communication systems are generally highly specialized purpose build communication systems. With the recent advancements in wireless cellular telephone systems there has been an interest of utilizing the existing infrastructure of the mainly point to point cellular telephone systems for broadcast services. As used herein the term cellular systems encompasses communication systems utilizing both cellular and PCS frequencies. 

The information signal to be exchanged among the terminals in a communication system is often organized into a plurality of packets. For the purposes of this description a packet is a group of bytes including data payload and control elements arranged into a specific format. The control elements comprise e.g. a preamble and a quality metric. The quality metric comprises e.g. cyclical redundancy check CRC parity bit s and other types of metric known to one skilled in the art. The packets are then formatted to fit a into a frame in accordance with a communication channel structure. The frame appropriately modulated traveling between the origination terminal and the destination terminal is affected by characteristics of the communication channel e.g. signal to noise ratio fading time variance and other such characteristics. Such characteristics affect the modulated signal differently in different communication channels. Consequently transmission of a modulated signal over a wireless communication channel requires different considerations than transmission of a modulated signal over a wire like communication channel e.g. a coaxial cable or an optical cable. In addition to selecting modulation appropriate for a particular communication channel other methods for protecting the information signal have been devised. Such methods comprise e.g. encoding symbol repetition interleaving and other methods know to one of ordinary skill in the art. However these methods increase overhead. Therefore an engineering compromise between reliability of the information signal delivery and the amount of overhead must be made. Even with the above discussed protection of information signal the conditions of the communication channel can degrade to the point at which the destination station possibly cannot decode erases some of the packets. In data only communications systems allowing a communication of a feedback from a destination terminal to the origination terminal one cure is to re transmit the non decoded packets using an Automatic Retransmission reQuest ARQ made by the destination station to the origination station. However under certain conditions the ARQ may overload the communication system. Furthermore as discussed in regards to broadcast communication systems the subscribers do not communicate back to the base station. Consequently other means of information protection are desirable.

A co pending application Ser. No. 09 933 912 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR UTILIZATION OF AN OUTER DECODER IN A BROADCAST SERVICES COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Aug. 20 2001 and assigned to the assignee of the present invention discussed in detail utilization of an outer decoder in a broadcast system. As described in the co pending application Ser. No. 09 933 912 the bit stream of information to be transmitted is first encoded by an outer decoder and the encoded stream is then encoded by an inner encoder. As illustrated in the bit stream of information to be transmitted originating at higher layers is provided to a transmit buffer . The transmit buffer is illustrated in more detail in . Referring to the bits fill the systematic portion of the transmit buffer of row by row from left to right. The systematic portion comprises k rows of length L. Referring back to once the systematic portion of is full the outer block encoder is activated to perform column wise encoding of the bits in the systematic portion of to generate n k additional rows of of parity bits. This column wise operation is performed column by column for binary outer code i.e. m 1. For non binary code i.e. m 1 every m adjacent columns in a row are treated as a m bit symbol. The m bit symbols along the top k rows are read by the outer encoder to produce n k m bit symbols that fill the corresponding lower n k rows of these columns.

The outer encoder comprises e.g. a systematic Reed Solomon R S encoder. Referring back to the content of the transmit buffer is then provided to a physical layer . At the physical layer the individual frames are encoded by an inner encoder which results in encoded frames. The structure of the inner decoder may is well known to one of ordinary skills in the art. The systematic rows and the parity rows of the buffer may be interlaced during transmission to reduce the chance of large number of systematic rows erased when the total number of inner code erasure exceeds the outer code s correcting capability. The frames are further processed in accordance with a selected modulation scheme e.g. cdma2000 WCDMA UMTS and other modulation schemes known to one of ordinary skills in the art. The processed frames are then transmitted over a communication channel .

The transmitted frames are received at the destination station and provided to a physical layer . At the physical layer the individual frames are demodulated and provided to an inner decoder . The inner decoder decodes each frame and if the decoding is successful outputs a correctly decoded frame or if the decoding is unsuccessful declares an erasure. The success or failure of decoding must be determined with a high accuracy achieved e.g. by including a long for example 16 bit cyclic redundancy check CRC in the frame after outer encoding and before inner encoding. The included CRC obtained from the decoded frame is compared with a CRC calculated from the bits of the decoded frame and if the two CRCs are identical the decoding is declared successful.

If the inner decoder cannot decode the frame the decoder declares an erasure and provides an outer block decoder with an indication that the frame is missing. The process continues until there are as many parity frames received correctly and passed to a parity portion of a receive buffer as there are erased systematic frames. The receiver stops the reception of any remaining frames and the outer decoder not shown is activated to recover the erased systematic frames. The recovered systematic frames are passed to the upper layer.

It is well known in the art that a decoding error correcting computation complexity increases with increased values of the number of rows in the transmit buffer . Because the decoding error correcting computation complexity affects hardware complexity at the receiving terminal as well as power consumption there exists a need in the art for a method and system.

Embodiments disclosed herein address the above stated needs by providing a method and a system executing the method by encoding systematic bits in each of a plurality of buffers with an outer code multiplexing content of the plurality of buffers and encoding said multiplexed content with an inner code to provide a set of frames.

In another aspect of the invention the received set of frames is decoded by an inner decoder the correctly decoded frames are de multiplexed to a plurality of buffers and the content of each buffer is further processed. If the systematic portion of a buffer has been decoded correctly the processing comprises providing the content of the systematic portion to higher layers. Alternatively if it is determined that decoding of the buffer content by an outer decoder recovers the systematic portion the outer decoder is activated and the recovered content together with the correctly received content of the systematic portion are provided to higher layers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

The terms point to point communication is used herein to mean a communication between two subscriber stations over a dedicated communication channel.

The terms broadcast communication or point to multipoint communication are used herein to mean a communication wherein a plurality of subscriber stations are receiving communication from one source.

The term packet is used herein to mean a group of bits including data payload and control elements arranged into a specific format. The control elements comprise e.g. a preamble a quality metric and others known to one skilled in the art. Quality metric comprises e.g. a cyclical redundancy check CRC a parity bit and others known to one skilled in the art.

The term access network is used herein to mean a collection of base stations BS and one or more base stations controllers. The access network transports data packets between multiple subscriber stations. The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks.

The term base station is used herein to mean the hardware with which subscriber stations communicate. Cell refers to the hardware or a geographic coverage area depending on the context in which the term is used. A sector is a partition of a cell. Because a sector has the attributes of a cell the teachings described in terms of cells are readily extended to sectors.

The term subscriber station is used herein to mean the hardware with which an access network communicates. A subscriber station may be mobile or stationary. A subscriber station may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. A subscriber station may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. A subscriber station that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with a base station is said to be in a connection setup state. A subscriber station that has established an active traffic channel connection with a base station is called an active subscriber station and is said to be in a traffic state.

The term physical channel is used herein to mean a communication route over which a signal propagates described in terms of modulation characteristics and coding.

The term logical channel is used herein to mean a communication route within the protocol layers of either the base station or the subscriber station.

The term communication channel link is used herein to mean a physical channel or a logical channel in accordance with the context.

The term reverse channel link is used herein to mean a communication channel link through which the subscriber station sends signals to the base station.

A forward channel link is used herein to mean a communication channel link through which a base station sends signals to a subscriber station.

The term soft hand off is used herein to mean a communication between a subscriber station and two or more sectors wherein each sector belongs to a different cell. The reverse link communication is received by both sectors and the forward link communication is simultaneously carried on the two or more sectors forward links.

The term softer hand off is used herein to mean a communication between a subscriber station and two or more sectors wherein each sector belongs to the same cell. The reverse link communication is received by both sectors and the forward link communication is simultaneously carried on one of the two or more sectors forward links.

The term dedicated channel is used herein to mean a channel modulated by information specific to an individual subscriber station.

The term common channel is used herein to mean a channel modulated by information shared among all subscriber stations.

The term physical layer is used exclusively herein to mean that part of the communication protocol between an origination terminal and a destination terminal that is responsible for the transmission an reception of data. The physical layer corresponds to Layer 1 in the International Standards Organization model for Open System Interconnection.

The term higher layer s is used exclusively herein to mean that part of the communication protocol between an origination terminal and a destination terminal that is above a physical layer. The higher layers correspond to Layers 2 through 7 in the International Standards Organization model for Open System Interconnection.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention as illustrated in the bit stream of information to be transmitted originating at higher layers is de multiplexed and provided to transmit buffers . The bits fill the systematic portion of the transmit buffer row by row from left to right. The systematic portion comprises k rows of length L. In one embodiment the length L of the buffer coincides with the length of a radio frame without the overhead e.g. CRC to help the inner decoder and the tail bits for the inner encoder . Once the systematic portion of the transmit buffer is full the procedure is repeated for the remaining transmit buffers . Once the systematic portions of the transmit buffers are full the outer block encoders are activated to perform column wise encoding of the bits in the systematic portion to generate n k additional rows of parity bits . This column wise operation is performed column by column for binary outer code i.e. m 1. For non binary code i.e. m 1 every m adjacent columns in a row are treated as a m bit symbol. The m bit symbols along the top k rows are read by the outer encoder to produce n k m bit symbols that fill the corresponding lower n k rows of these columns.

In another embodiment the length L of the buffer is equal to the number of bits the radio frame without the overhead divided by m the dimension of the outer encoder code. In this embodiment the first m rows from the transmit buffers are sent in the first radio frame the second m rows of bits are sent in the second radio frame until the entire buffer is transmitted. Once the systematic portion of the transmit buffer is full the procedure is repeated for the remaining transmit buffers . Once the systematic portions of the transmit buffers are full the outer block encoders are activated to perform column wise encoding of the bits in the systematic portion to generate m n k additional rows of parity bits . This column wise operation is performed column by column for binary outer code i.e. m 1. For non binary code i.e. m 1 every m rows of a column form a m bit symbol. The k symbols from the top k m rows in the column are read by the outer encoder to produce n k m bit symbols that fill the corresponding lower m n k rows of this column.

In one embodiment each of the outer encoders comprises a systematic Reed Solomon R S encoder. The content of the transmit buffers are then provided to a multiplexer . The multiplexer cycles through the transmit buffers selecting a successive transmit buffer after a block of bits containing a pre determined number of bits has been sent form a previous buffer 1 . In one embodiment the pre determined number of bits in a block equals L. This strategy intends to uniformly distribute corruption of data caused by disturbance of a physical channel among the buffers . However one of ordinary skills in the art understands that other multiplexing strategies are equally applicable and can be utilized without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. The multiplexed blocks of bits are provided to a physical layer of the originating terminal. At the physical layer additional overhead bits e.g. a CRC check are added to each of the blocks of bits and the resulting structure is encoded by an inner encoder which results in encoded frames. The structure of the outer and inner encoders and the multiplexer may be e.g. the structure of . The frames are further processed in accordance with a selected modulation scheme. In one embodiment the processing is performed in accordance with the IS 2000 standard. The processed frames are then transmitted over a communication channel .

The transmitted frames are received at the destination station not shown and provided to a physical layer at the destination station. At the physical layer the individual frames are demodulated and provided to an inner decoder . In one embodiment the inner decoder decodes each frame and if the decoding is successful outputs a correctly decoded frame or if the decoding is unsuccessful declares an erasure. The success or failure of decoding must be determined with a high accuracy. In one embodiment the accuracy is achieved by including a long for example 16 bit cyclic redundancy check CRC in the frame after outer encoding and before inner encoding as discussed above. However one of ordinary skills in the art recognizes that other mechanisms for frame quality indication may be used. The included CRC obtained from the decoded frame is compared with a CRC calculated from the bits of the decoded frame and if the two CRCs are identical the decoding is declared successful. Further processing at the physical layer proceeds in accordance with the result of the inner decoder decision.

The correctly decoded frames are provided to a de multiplexer that distributes the correctly decoded frames among the receive buffers utilizing an inverse method to the method used for multiplexing. If all the systematic k frames are correctly decoded by the inner decoder for a particular receive buffer the systematic frames from the systematic portion of the receive buffer are provided to higher layers.

If the inner decoder cannot decode the frame the decoder declares an erasure and provides the de multiplexer with an indication that the frame is missing. The de multiplexer provides the information to the outer block decoder communicatively coupled to the received buffer to which the frame belonged. The process continues until there are enough systematic frames and correctly received parity frames accumulated in the systematic portion and the parity portion of the receive buffer or until the receive buffer is full. The outer decoder not shown is then activated to recover the erased systematic frames. The recovered systematic frames are provided to higher layers.

If the total number of correctly received frames in the receive buffer is less than k in accordance with one embodiment the outer decoder is not activated since there is no guarantee that the decoding would be successful. The correctly received systematic frames together with identification of the missing bits are provided to the higher layers. In another embodiment the receiver uses decoded bits from the inner decoder which are unreliable as indicated by the failed CRC checks to recover bits for the systematic bits. In accordance with one embodiment the receiver decodes the unreliable bits from the inner decoder and finds the most likely codeword. In the another embodiment the receiver uses measurement of the signal quality of the erased frames in the buffer to choose enough erroneously received frames with the highest signal to noise ratio to form a sub buffer with k rows. The receiver then performs bit flipping changing a bit value of 0 to a bit value 1 and vice versa at one column at a time and checks whether the bit flipping resulted in a codeword. In one embodiment the bit flipping is first performed on the least reliable bits and continues with bits in the order of the bits increasing reliability. The reliability of a bit may be determined in accordance with inner decoding metrics e.g. a signal to noise and interference ratio during the frame like the Yamamoto metric the re encoded symbol error rate re encoded energy metric and other metrics known to one of ordinary skills in the art or the metrics combinations. If a codeword was not found the bit flipping continues through all the remaining columns for all the unreliable rows. If a codeword was not found the bit flipping continues with increased number of bits flipped that is changing 2 bits at a time then 3 bits until the maximum number of bits until either a codeword is found or all combinations are exhausted. In another embodiment the CRC from the unreliable rows are used to check the overall success of the decoding in this situation. The frames are provided to the higher layers only if the CRC from all rows match otherwise only bits from reliable rows are provided to the higher layers.

To improve reliability of decoding in another embodiment the demodulation and inner decoding are performed for more than k correctly received frames in a buffer. In accordance in yet another embodiment the demodulation and inner decoding are performed for all frames in the buffer. In both embodiments the outer decoding is performed on the k or km rows with the highest quality. The quality may be determined in accordance with inner decoding metrics e.g. a signal to noise and interference ratio during the frame like the Yamamoto metric the re encoded symbol error rate re encoded energy metric and other metrics known to one of ordinary skills in the art or the metrics combinations. Use of quality metrics for quality estimation is disclosed in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 751 725 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING THE RATE OF RECEIVED DATA IN A VARIABLE RATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM and U.S. Pat. No. 5 774 496 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING DATA RATE OF TRANSMITTED VARIABLE RATE DATA IN A COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVER and both are assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the number of transmit buffers consequently receive buffers is a compromise between processing overhead and amount of potential data loss. A small value of k resulting in more transmit receive buffers causes increased processing overhead. On the other hand a large value of k resulting in less transmit receive buffers causes the transmit buffer size to increase which leads to discarding a large block of data if the content of the transmit buffer cannot be recovered due to more than n k row erasures. A large transmit buffer size also increases the memory requirement at the destination terminal.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

