---

title: Data driven interpolation using geodesic affinity
abstract: Often, information regarding images and/or other data may be incomplete. For example, an image may have depth information associated with a portion of the image, but not the entire image. It may be advantageous to extrapolate the values from the known points to the entire image. Accordingly, a dimensional array representing an image (or other data) may be traversed one or more times to generate an interpolated table. The interpolated table may comprise pixels of unknown value, where a pixel of unknown value may be associated with a number of pixels with known values. In this way, values for pixels may be specified based upon values of pixels having known values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08447105&OS=08447105&RS=08447105
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08447105
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100607
---
Digital images play a prevalent role in current computing applications. For example users may upload alter and share digital photos advertising companies may generate digital images for online advertisements mapping applications may comprise satellite images of various locations on earth etc. In some instances digital images may be generated where specific points of the image have known values. In one example a camera may capture a dense sampling of a scene. A stereo process may recover depth information at some of the points in the image but not all. In another example color information of an image may be known at a few specific points within the image e.g. a user provides brush strokes of color on various regions of objects such as a brown stroke near a chair and a red stroke near an apple . However some information may still be missing from such images.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or methods for interpolating extrapolating values of non seed objects based upon values of seed objects are disclosed. It may be appreciated that a dimensional array of objects may represent a variety of information such as an image a social network a forest of tree etc. Some values of objects within the dimensional array may comprise known values such as depth color a trait of a user whether a tree is infected etc. It may be appreciated that an object within the dimensional array e.g. a single point of the dimensional array may refer to a data point of information e.g. pixels of an image people of a social network etc. . In one example an image may be represented as a dimensional array comprising non seed objects e.g. pixels of unknown values and seed objects pixels of known values such as depth or color .

The dimensional array may be interpolated into an interpolated table comprising non seed objects. Respective non seed objects within the interpolated table may be associated with a predetermined integer number k of seed pairings. A seed pairing may comprise a seed object and a seed cost e.g. cost of a path from a non seed object to the seed object . It may be appreciated that seed pairings may be updated based upon looping through non seed objects within the dimensional array to determine seed pairings having desired seed costs. For example a desired seed cost may represent a minimal cost path between a non seed object and a seed object. In this way updated k seed pairings may be determined for a non seed object. A predetermined integer number k of updated seed pairings may be determined for a non seed object. For example the updated k seed pairings may represent k seed objects having minimal cost a low geodesic distance indicating a high probability that the non seed object corresponds to e.g. have a similar color the k seed objects within the updated k seed pairings.

In one example of interpolating the dimensional array into an interpolated table of non seed objects and updated k seed pairings for respective non seed objects non seed objects within the interpolated table may be looped through as current objects to determine k seed objects having minimal cost with respect to respective non seed objects. For current objects a cost between the current object and a neighboring object may be added to seeds costs within the seed pairings of the neighboring object to obtain calculated seed pairings for the neighboring object. A calculated seed pairing for the neighboring object may comprise a seed object and a calculated seed cost. Seed costs within seed pairings of the current object may be compared with calculated seed costs within the calculated seed pairing of the neighboring object. In this way the current object may be updated so that the updated k seed pairings for the current object have a desired cumulative seed cost where the updated k seed pairings do not comprise redundant seed objects. For example seed pairings and or updated k seed pairings having a low geodesic distance e.g. a path of minimal cost between objects may be retained. In this way non seed objects within the interpolated table may be evaluated to determine seed objects having low geodesic distances with respect to the non seed objects. Values e.g. a color a depth a probability of becoming infected etc. may be assigned to non seed objects based upon values of seed objects within the updated k seed pairings of the non seed objects.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Data such as images social networks a group of individuals etc. may be represented by dimensional arrays. Objects individual points of the dimensional array may represent elements of the data such as pixels people things etc. As a simple example a two dimensional array may comprise objects representing pixels of a two dimensional image. Unfortunately the two dimensional array may lack a complete set of information regarding the objects pixels. For example pixel color values pixel depth values pixel temperature values etc. may be known for some but not all pixels of the image. That is color values may be known for some objects pixels but not all objects. It may be advantageous to extrapolate the values of objects of known value to objects of unknown value. That is values for objects of unknown value may be interpolated based upon the objects of known value.

It may be appreciated that a dimensional array may comprise seed objects and non seed objects. A seed object may refer to an object e.g. a pixel having a known value e.g. a color of red . A non seed object may refer to an object e.g. a pixel having an unknown value e.g. color is unknown . It may be appreciated that a path refers to a sequence of objects from a non seed object to a seed object. For example a path from non seed object 1 to seed object 5 may involve walking through non seed object 4 non seed object 6 and non seed object 15 . Costs may be associated with paths. For example a cost from non seed object 1 to seed object 5 may comprise a cost from going between non seed object 1 and non seed object 4 a cost from going between non seed object 4 and non seed object 6 a cost from going between non seed object 6 and non seed object 15 a cost from going between non seed object 15 and seed object 5 . A cost may represent a change in similarity measurement between two objects e.g. a difference in color of luminosity between two objects . A low cost may indicate there is a high similarity between two objects whereas a high cost may indicate there is minimal similarity between two objects.

It may be appreciated that a geodesic path may be interpreted as a path between two objects e.g. a non seed object and a seed object such that the path has a desired seed cost e.g. a minimal cost of objects along the path between the non seed object and the seed object . A geodesic path having a low value e.g. a minimal cost path between a non seed object and a seed object may indicate that there is an increased probability that the non seed object and the seed object share a similar value. For example a dimensional array may comprise a plurality of objects representing pixels where some of the pixels have color values. A high geodesic path between a first pixel of unknown value in the middle of the image and a brown pixel of a known brown value in the lower right of the image may be determined. A low geodesic path between a second pixel of unknown value in the lower middle of the image and the brown pixel of known brown value in the lower right of the image may be determined. It may be appreciated that the second pixel may have a higher probability of being brown than the first pixel because there is a lower geodesic path e.g. smaller change in color similarity measurements between the second pixel and the brown pixel e.g. the brown pixel and the second pixel may belong to a wood floor of an image although in some instances the pixels may be far apart within the image.

The dimensional array may be interpolated into an interpolated table based upon calculating geodesic distances between non seed objects pixel of unknown color values and seed objects pixels of known color values . It may be appreciated that costs seed costs and calculated seed costs may refer to costs associated with determining a geodesic path based upon how similar a similarity measurement is between objects. In particular a seed pairing may comprise a seed object and a seed cost representative of a cost associated with a geodesic path between the seed object and a non seed object. It may be advantageous to determine more than one seed object for a non seed object whereas many current techniques may utilize a single seed object for interpolating values of non seed objects. For example a predetermined integer number k of seed objects e.g. pixels of known color may be used to determine a value of a non seed object. In this way an interpolated table comprising non seed objects associated with k seed pairings may be generated. In particular for respective non seed objects k seed pairings may be determined through an iterative process of walking the dimensional array and comparing potential geodesic paths to find desired paths e.g. minimal cost geodesic paths of k seed objects to a non seed object. It may be appreciated that a seed pairing may comprise a seed object e.g. a pixel of known color and a seed cost e.g. a cost associated with a desired path between the non seed object and the seed object . Through this iterative process of updating seed pairings based upon retaining seed pairing having a desired seed cost e.g. minimum cost path the interpolated table may be populated with updated k seed pairings for respective non seed objects.

One embodiment of interpolating values of non seed objects based upon values of seed objects is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method begins. At a dimensional array may be interpolated into an interpolated table of non seed objects. The dimensional array may comprise non seed objects objects with unknown values and seed objects objects of known value . In one example the dimensional array may represent an image the non seed and seed objects may represent pixels and values of the seed objects may represent pixel measurement data such as depth or color. In another example the dimensional array may represent a social network the non seed and seed objects may represent users of the social network and values of the seed objects may represent user traits such as whether the user is sick. It may be appreciated that the dimensional array may comprise a dimensionality greater than two.

During interpolation the interpolated table may be filled in and updated with a predetermined integer number k of seed pairings for the respective non seed objects within the interpolated table. In particular a seed pairing may comprise a seed object object with known value and seed cost a cost to travel from a non seed object to the seed object based upon similarity measurements of objects between the non seed object and the seed object . Thus a non seed object within the interpolated table may have k seed pairings representing k seed objects having a desired seed cost. For example a non seed object may have 8 seed objects having the desired e.g. minimal cost between the non seed object and the 8 seed objects. An iterative process of traversing the dimensional table to explore new paths to determine an updated k seed pairings having a cumulative desired seed cost may be performed. In this way neighboring objects of a current object may be evaluated to determine whether one or more seed objects would have a more desired seed cost when traveling through the neighboring seed as opposed to the current paths seed pairings of the non seed object.

At for respective current objects non seed objects within the interpolated table seed costs may be calculated at seed costs may be compared at and or current objects may be updated with updated k seed pairings having desired cumulative seed cost at . In particular at a cost between a current object and a neighboring object may be added to one or more seed costs of seed pairings of the neighboring object to obtain calculated seed pairings for the neighboring object. A cost between the current object and the neighboring object may be determined based upon comparing a first similarity measurement e.g. a luminosity measurement a gradient magnitude etc. of the current object with a second similarity measurement of the neighboring object. A low cost may be determined where there is a small difference between the first and second similarity measurements because a small difference in similarity may indicate there is less of a change of some measurement e.g. a change from dark green to green as opposed to dark green to red between the current object and neighboring object. A low cost may indicate that the current object and the neighboring object may bear a close relationship to one another because there is a low cost to travel from the current object to the neighboring object. It may be appreciated that cost may not relate to distance between objects but rather how similar dissimilar traits of objects are.

The calculated seed pairings may comprise seed objects and calculated seed costs e.g. a cost to travel from the current object through the neighboring object to the seed object . It may be appreciated that calculated seed pairings may indicate new potential paths having calculated path costs from the current object through the neighboring object to seed objects of the neighboring object.

At one or more seed costs within seed pairings of the current object may be compared with one or more calculated seed costs within the calculated seed pairings of the neighboring object. That is seeds costs of the current object e.g. costs of paths from the current object to k seed objects may be compared with calculated seed costs of the neighboring object e.g. costs of paths from the current object through the neighboring object to k seed objects . In this way updated k seed pairings between the current object and the neighboring object may be retained for the current object. For example updated k seed pairings have minimal costs may be retained for the current object. In particular at the current object may be updated based upon the comparison so that k seed pairings of the current object have a desired cumulative seed cost. The updated k seed pairings e.g. seed pairings derived from the current object and 2 seed pairings derived from the neighboring object may not comprise redundant seed objects. For example there is no advantage to have two paths to a single seed object because the objective may be to determine k seed objects so that values of the k seed objects may be interpolated into a value for the current object. In one example more than one neighboring objects may be evaluated for a current object.

At for respective non seed objects within the interpolated table a value may be specified for a non seed object based upon values of seed objects within the updated k seed pairings of the non seed object at . In one example a percentage of outlier values of seed objects may be removed. Thus the value for the non seed object may be specified based upon a function of the remaining values of seed objects. In this way values e.g. color of non seed objects e.g. pixels of unknown color may be specified based upon values of seed objects e.g. pixels of known color within the updated k seed pairings associated with respective non seed objects where the k seed objects have a desired cumulative seed cost. At the method ends.

The system may comprise a table generating component and or a value specifying component . The table generating component may be configured to generate an interpolated table comprising non seed objects associated with updated k seed pairings having a desired cumulative seed cost. It may be appreciated that a seed pairing e.g. an updated seed pairing may comprise a seed object and a seed cost with respect to a non seed e.g. a cost to travel between the non seed and the seed object within the dimensional array . The table generating component may generate the interpolated table based upon calculating comparing and retaining seed pairings based upon seed costs between non seed objects and seed objects within the dimensional array. It may be appreciated that seed pairings for a non seed object may not comprise redundant seed objects. It may be appreciated that the dimensional array may have a dimensionality greater than two.

In one example of generating the interpolated table the table generating component may be configured to calculate seed costs of a neighboring object of a current object compare the calculated seed costs within seed costs of the current object and retain updated k seed pairings having a desired cumulative seed cost. In particular for respective current objects within the interpolated table the table generating component may be configured to add a cost between a current object and a neighboring object to one or more seed costs within seed pairings of the neighboring object to obtain calculated seed pairings for the neighboring object. It may be appreciated that calculated seed pairings may indicate a path cost between the current object through the neighboring object to a seed object. Respective calculated seed pairings for the neighboring object may comprise a seed object and a calculated seed cost. The table generating component may be configured to determine a cost between the current object and the neighboring object based upon comparing a first similarity measurement of the current object a second similarity measurement of the neighboring object. That is the cost may reflect how similar a trait of the current object and the neighboring object is. For example a high cost may reflect that a difference in gradient values between a current pixel and a neighboring pixel is large where values of seeds are related to depth.

The table generating component may be configured to compare seed costs within seed pairings of the current object with calculated seed costs within the calculated seed pairings of the neighboring object. In this way the current object may be updated such that updated k seed pairings of the current object have a desired cumulative seed cost. In this way the interpolated table may be generated. The interpolated table may comprise non seed objects where respective non seed objects are associated with updated k seed pairings having a desired cumulative seed cost. For example a non seed object may be associated with updated k seed pairings having a lowest cumulative seed cost which may indicate that the non seed object may have a value similar to the values of the k seed pairings. For example values of objects may relate to depth. Seed objects may have values ranging from 0 to 50. After interpolation a non seed object may be associated with updated k seed pairings having values for depth ranging between 8 and 10. Because the updated k seed pairings may have been chosen based up the updated k seed pairings having minimal cost paths e.g. a lowest change in gradient along geodesic paths between the non seed object and k seed objects it may be appreciated that the non seed object may have a depth value close to the range between 8 and 10.

It may be appreciated that more than one neighboring object may be compared with the current object. It may be appreciated that the dimensional array may be traverse multiple times using forward scans and or backward scans to determine updated k seed pairings having a lowest cumulative seed cost. That is k seed pairings may be updated as the dimensional array is traversed e.g. current objects are compared with neighboring objects . The dimensional array may be traversed multiple times because new potential paths may be discovered as the dimensional array is traversed.

The value specifying component may be configured to specify values for non seed objects within the interpolated table to generate non seed objects with interpolated values . A value may be specified for a non seed object based upon values of seed objects within updated k seed pairings associated with the non seed object. In one example a percentage of outlier values of seed objects may be removed. In particular a value may be specified for the non seed object based upon an average of the remaining values of the seed objects. In this way a value for a non seed object may be specified based upon values of k seed objects e.g. 8 seed objects having a minimal geodesic distance to the non seed object .

It may be appreciated that costs may not correlate to distance but rather similarity between objects. For example non seed object 1 is adjacent to seed object 3 . However a seed cost of 50 is associated with traveling from non seed object 1 to seed object 3 because the respective objects many have little to no similarity with regards to some trait e.g. luminosity . That is the high seed cost of 50 may indicate that non seed object 1 and seed object 3 may not share a similar value e.g. non seed object 1 is not red . Similarly there is a cost of 4 between non seed object 1 and non seed object 3 along with a cost of 36 between non seed object 3 and seed object 2 . That is there is a seed cost of 40 to travel from non seed object 1 through non seed object 3 to seed object 2 . The high seed cost of 40 4 36 indicates that non seed object 1 and seed object 2 may not share a similar value e.g. non seed object 1 is not orange . It may be appreciated that there are two jumps non seed object 1 to non seed object 3 and non seed object 3 to seed object 2 from non seed object 1 to seed object 2 yet there is a smaller seed cost associated with the path in comparison to the single jump from non seed object 1 to seed object 3 having a larger seed cost.

In contrast there is a small seed cost of 5 2 3 between non seed object 1 and seed objection 1 when traveling through non seed object 2 . The small seed cost of 5 may indicate that non seed object 1 and seed object 1 may share a similar value e.g. non seed object 1 may have a color similar to white . In this way the dimensional array may be traversed to determine seed costs between non seed objects and seed objects. In particular for respective non seed values values of k seed objects having desired seed costs may be utilized in specifying values for a non seed object.

In one example of generating an interpolated table using the dimensional array non seed objects within the dimensional array may be sequentially traversed forwards and or backwards. In particular a loop of the dimensional array may be performed where a current object is evaluated with neighboring objects in an attempt to find updated k seed objects having a desired cumulative seed cost e.g. a first non seed object is evaluated as a current object against neighboring objects a second non seed object is evaluated as a current object against neighboring objects etc. . It may be appreciated that a loop may be performed one or more times because the updated k seed values may change for a non seed object based upon the discovery of new desired paths from the non seed object to seed objects.

In one example seed pairings having a low seed cost may be desired. For example the first seed pairing comprising the seed object 3 with a seed cost of 7 may be more desirable than a seed pairing comprising a seed object x with a seed cost of 50 for example. The low seed cost of 7 may indicate that there is a greater similarity between the non seed object N and the seed object 3 than the seed object x . In this way the interpolated table may be generated and or updated with updated k seed pairings for respective non seed objects.

In one example the current object may be compared with the neighboring object . In particular a cost between the current object and the neighboring object may be added to seed costs of seed pairings of the neighboring object to obtain calculated seed pairings. For example a cost of 11 between current object and neighboring object may be determined based upon a similarity measurement between respective objects. The cost of 11 may be added to seed costs of seeding pairings. For example seed pairing 1 comprises a seed object 12 having a seed cost of 5. The cost of 11 may be added to the seed cost of 5 to obtain a calculated seed cost 1 of 16 for calculated seed pairing 1 . Seed pairing 2 comprises a seed object 4 having a seed cost of 11. The cost of 11 may be added to the seed cost to obtain a calculated seed cost 2 of 22 for calculated seed pairing 2 . In this way calculated seed pairings may be determine for the neighboring object .

The seed pairings of the current object may be compared with calculated seed pairings of the neighboring object to update the current object into an updated current object comprising updated k seed pairings having a desired cumulative seed cost. In one example the 5 seed objects calculated seed objects having the lowest seed cost may be updated as the updated k seed pairings for the updated current object . To obtain the 5 seed pairings with lowest seed cost the updated current object may be updated with a seed pairing 1 comprising a seed object 15 with a seed cost of 2 a seed pairing 2 comprising a seed object 6 with a seed cost of 5 a seed pairing 3 comprising a seed object 3 with a seed cost of 12 a seed pairing 4 comprising a seed object 12 with a seed cost of 16 and a seed pairing 5 comprising a seed object 4 with a seed cost of 22. It may be appreciated that seed pairings through were derived from seed pairings of the current object while seed pairing 4 and seed pairing 5 were derived from calculated seed pairings of the neighboring object . In this way the updated current object may comprise updated k seed parings having a lowest cumulative seed cost.

The dimensional array of the input image may be interpolated to generate an interpolated table. The interpolated table may comprise non seed objects unknown pixels of unknown color value where respective non seed objects are associated with a predetermined number k of non seed objects known pixels of known color value . In this way color values may be assigned to unknown pixels to generate an output image .

In one example of generating the output image one or more unknown pixels may be colored white based upon an interpolated table. For example white pixel white pixel and or other known pixels may be represented as seed objects. Unknown pixel 1 unknown pixel 2 and or unknown pixel 3 along with other unknown pixels may be represented as non seed objects. The interpolated table may be generated such that unknown pixel 1 may be associated with k known pixels unknown pixel 2 may be associated with k known pixels and or unknown pixel 3 may be associated with k known pixels. For example unknown pixel may be associated with white pixel and or white pixel because traveling from unknown pixel to white pixel and or white pixel may have a low cost a low geodesic path . For example there may be a low cost between unknown pixel and white pixel because there may be a high similarity between pixels along the path from unknown pixel to white pixel . In contrast a high cost may be associated with traveling between unknown pixel and brown pixel because there may be a low similarity between pixels along the path from unknown pixel to brown pixel . In this way pixels may be colored within the output image based upon color values of known pixels.

In another example of coloring an image represented by a dimensional array the dimensional array may comprise unknown color pixels and known color pixels. The dimensional array may be interpolated into an interpolated table comprising unknown color pixels. The unknown color pixels in the interpolated table may be associated with a predetermined number k of pixel pairings where respective pixel pairings may comprise a known color pixel and a color cost. In particular for respective current pixels unknown color pixels within the interpolated table a cost between a current pixel and a neighboring pixel may be added to color costs within pixel pairings of the neighboring pixel to obtain calculated pixel pairings for the neighboring pixel. A calculated pixel paring may comprise a known color pixel and a calculated color cost e.g. a cost representing similarity measurements between pixels in a path from the unknown color pixel through the neighboring pixel to the known color pixel . One or more color costs within pixel pairings of the current pixel may be compared with one or more calculated color costs within the calculated pixel pairings of the neighboring pixel. In this way the current pixel may be updated based upon the comparison so that updated k pixel pairings for the current pixel have a desired cumulative color cost and no redundant known color pixels. Colors may be specified for unknown color pixels based upon colors of known color pixels within updated k pixel parings of respective unknown color pixels.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1384 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

