---

title: Flexible display translation
abstract: A user interface for displaying source data and a translated copy of a segment of the source data is provided. The user interface includes a first display portion for displaying at least a subset of the source data on the display. The user interface includes a second display portion for displaying a translated copy of a selected segment of source data on the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08364464&OS=08364464&RS=08364464
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08364464
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100921
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 294 231 filed Dec. 5 2005 entitled FLEXIBLE DISPLAY TRANSLATION. The entirety of this application is incorporated herein by reference.

Generally described computer systems can include user interfaces and or content in a variety of languages. For example a software application or operating environment may be localized to a specific language of its intended recipient. Similarly content such as Web pages may also be created in a variety of languages. In some scenarios however users may wish to interact with user interfaces and or content in multiple languages. Dependent on the user s language skill level translation services such as a real time translation service may be beneficial to a user.

One approach to providing translation services allows users to enter specific words or phrases into a text box for translation. After the user enters the words or phrases into the text box the entry may be submitted and a translation displayed. Another approach allows users to select specific words within a document to be translated. A translated version of the selected word is displayed to a user. Nevertheless current translation approaches are limited to providing specific words or phrases. These approaches typically do not provide a contextual view of the original and translated versions to facilitate user comprehension.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention a method for displaying data is provided. The method can be implemented in a computer system which includes a display. Source data which corresponds to a first language is obtained. A subset of the source data is displayed on the display. A selection of a segment of the displayed subset of the source data is obtained. A translated copy of the selected segment of the source data is displayed on the display. The translated copy of the displayed selected segment corresponds to a second language.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention a method for displaying data is provided. The method can be implemented in a computer system which includes a display. A subset of source data which corresponds to a first language is displayed on the display. A selection of a segment of the displayed subset of the source data is obtained. A translated copy of the selected segment of the source data is obtained. The translated copy of the displayed selected segment corresponds to a second language. Further the translated copy of the selected segment of the source data is displayed on the display.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention a computer readable medium having computer executable components for displaying data is provided. The computer executable components include a source data portion for displaying at least a subset of source data on a display. The source data corresponds to a first language. Additionally the computer executable components include a translated data portion for displaying a translated copy of a selected segment of the source data on the display. The translated copy of the source data corresponds to a second language.

Generally described the present invention is directed toward systems and methods for displaying a translated copy of source data. More specifically in accordance with the present invention a segment of source data is translated and displayed such that both the segment of source data and the translated copy of the segment are visible on a display. Additionally various user controls can be provided to facilitate user interaction with the source data and the translated copy of the source data. Although the present invention will be described with relation to illustrative user interfaces and operating environments one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the disclosed embodiments are illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting.

With reference now to an exemplary operating environment includes one or more client devices and operable to communicate via a communication network such as the Internet or an intranet. In an illustrative embodiment the one or more client devices and include an operating system and software applications such as a browser software application to facilitate communication via the communication network . Other applications available on the client devices and may include a word processing program a spreadsheet program a drawing program or any other program that displays information to a user. Further in an illustrative embodiment the one or more client devices and include a mouse a keyboard and a display. An exemplary operating environment also includes one or more servers and operable to communicate with the client devices and via the communication network . The one or more servers and are operable to translate source data received from the client devices and and to transmit information and translations to the client devices and .

One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the client devices and illustrated in can correspond to a variety of devices such as personal computers server computers handheld computers laptop devices network computers minicomputers mainframe computers mobile computers mobile telephones televisions dumb terminals or any device capable of displaying information to a user. Furthermore one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the illustrative servers and can also correspond to a variety of devices including personal computers server computers handheld computers laptop devices network computers minicomputers mainframe computers mobile computers mobile telephones cable head end systems or any device capable of providing a translation service. One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the communication network may be the Internet an intranet an extranet a satellite network or any other communications medium.

In an illustrative embodiment source data on a client device and corresponds to a first language which a user desires to translate to a second language. A translation memory and can be used to provide the translation. Translation memories and store translated copies of segments of source data along with the corresponding segments of source data which can be matched against selected segments of source data that the user desires to translate. If a match is found the translation memory or provides a translated copy of the segment. In an illustrative embodiment machine translation and can be used to translate segments of source data. Machine translation involves the use of computer hardware or software to translate from one language to another.

As illustrated in in an illustrative embodiment a client device can retrieve copies of previously translated segments from a translation memory . Further a client device can utilize a device or software capable of machine translation to provide translations. In an illustrative embodiment a client device may have local access to both machine translation and a translation memory . Further a client device may not be operable to translate segments locally. In such a case the client device can receive translations from the one or more servers and . Further although the translation memories and are illustrated as separate devices from the client devices and one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that a client device and a translation memory may be a single computing device. Still further translation memories and may correspond to local storage or distributed storage via the communication network .

In an illustrative embodiment a server and can utilize a translation memory or to provide the client devices and with translations. Additionally or alternatively a server can utilize a device or software capable of machine translation to provide translations. Although server can utilize either a translation memory or machine translation one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that a server may only have access to machine translation. Further although the translation memories and are illustrated as separate devices from the one or more servers and server and translation memory and or server and translation memory may be a single computing device. Still further translation memories and may correspond to local storage or distributed storage via the communication network . The machine translation may be provided by a single device or software program or may be provided by a distributed system of devices. Further one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the one or more servers and may advertise their translation capabilities as a service.

In an illustrative embodiment a client device or utilizes its local resources to generate various user interfaces that include information such as text or images of text. The information may correspond to information generated by software applications or an operating system from data stored locally on the client device or such as a icons images or text. As will be explained below after generating the information the client device or obtains a selection of a segment of the information and provides a user with a corresponding translation of the selected segment. In an alternate embodiment and with reference to or the client device or can obtain at least a portion of the information from a remote source such as servers or .

With reference now to in an illustrative embodiment a client device can generate a request for information. The information request is transmitted via a communication network to a server . In an illustrative embodiment the information request corresponds to a request for source data which is created in a first language such as a web page or text file. The information request can include a specification of a language. Alternatively the language can be deduced or default to a first language. A server transmits information via a communication network to a client device . After obtaining the information the client device obtains a selection of a segment of information and provides a user with a corresponding translation of the selected segment. One skilled in the art will appreciate that client device can translate segments of source data that are stored locally and that need not have been transmitted from a server .

With reference to in another illustrative embodiment a client device can generate a request for information and a translation of the requested information. The request for information and translation is transmitted via a communication network to a server . After the server performs the requested translation the information and translation is transmitted via a communication network to a client device . The information transmitted by a server can include a document containing source data in a first language such as a web page or text file. In an illustrative embodiment the translation transmitted by a server can correspond to a localized version of the document. In an illustrative embodiment a translation transmitted by a server can include a translation of one or more segments previously received from a client device . After obtaining the information the client device obtains a selection of a segment of information and provides a user with a corresponding translation of the selected segment.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that translations can be provided through a service. Further this service may run on a client device and or a server and . In an illustrative embodiment the service is distributed across any combination of client devices and and or servers and . One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that any source language can be translated into any target language.

In an illustrative embodiment a segment of source data is selected by the user. The segment may be selected by manipulation of various user input devices such as a mouse cursor keyboard touch screen or the like. The segment may be selected by selecting a portion of the segment such as a single word. A user may select a segment by dragging the mouse cursor in such a manner as to highlight an area of the user interface selecting the segment with a mouse manipulation hovering over a portion of the segment with a mouse or the like. Based on the selected segment a translated copy of the segment is displayed on the display . The display may appear transparent semi transparent opaque or have a colored background. In an illustrative embodiment the translated copy of the selected segment of source data may be displayed adjacent to the selected segment of source data.

In an illustrative embodiment the display can include additional information related to the selected segment and or translated copy . For example an identification of a type of translation may be displayed. Exemplary embodiments may utilize machine translation and a translation memory to perform translations. The letters MT can be used to denote that machine translation was used to translate the segment . In an illustrative embodiment the letters TM can be used to denote that a translation memory was used to provide the translation . In other embodiments letters numbers symbols pictures or other indicia can be used to denote the type of translation . In an illustrative embodiment the user can be given an opportunity to provide feedback on the usefulness of the translation. For example a dialog box may be displayed which provides the user with a mechanism such as a hyperlink to provide feedback on the translation.

In an illustrative embodiment a confidence value may be displayed to the user in the display . A confidence value represents to a user the usefulness of the translation especially in machine translation embodiments. Confidence values are useful to the user in that the user can configure the system to only provide translations above a certain threshold. In an illustrative embodiment a range of numbers from 0 to 1000 can be used to provide the confidence value . In other embodiments a different range of numbers letters symbols pictures or other indicia can be used to provide the confidence value .

The display can provide a translation of any user interface element displayed to the user. For example the display can display translations corresponding to buttons on the toolbar or from items on the menu bar . If a menu is selected and a drop down list is displayed the display can provide translations for the list of options. In an illustrative embodiment translations of user interface elements are provided as the elements are moused over.

In an illustrative embodiment the user interface is displayed by a client device and running the Microsoft Windows operating system. Further as the mouse cursor passes over various portions of the user interface the Windows Accessibility functionalities provides the relevant segment of source data. The Windows Localization Platform provides a translation framework which can be leveraged by calling the application programming interface API provided by the Windows Localization Platform to perform a translation or transliteration or combination of both of the selected segment . In an illustrative embodiment a display of the translated or transliterated segment is displayed within a semi transparent display which enables the user to simultaneously see both the source data and its translation .

In an illustrative embodiment a client device or can request translation of a segment of data from a server and . In other embodiments a client device or can request translation of more than one segment of data. For example if the client device or is displaying a document in a word processing program the client device or can request a translation of the entire document. If the client device or requests translation of the document the client device or may hide the translation from the user and only display segments of translated data as they are needed. In an illustrative embodiment the client device or can request a translation of all text and user interface elements displayed to the user.

In an illustrative embodiment a user configures the settings for the display by using a set of dialog boxes. For example the user may configure the display to display translations in a certain target language. In an illustrative embodiment the operating system running on the client device or determines the target language for translations . In an illustrative embodiment an audio rendition of the source data or translation may be provided through the use of Text to Speech technology. Further in an illustrative embodiment running on Microsoft Windows the display may appear after a user selects an icon in the Windows tray.

With reference now to an illustrative user interface for displaying source data in a first language and a translated copy of a selected segment of the source data in a second language will be described. The illustrative user interface includes a first portion of the display for displaying a subset of the source data and a second portion of the display for displaying a translated copy of a selected segment of source data. In an illustrative embodiment the translated copy of the selected segment corresponds to a segment pointed at by a mouse cursor . As the mouse cursor moves over segments of source data the second portion of the display always displays a translated copy of the selected segment of source data. In an alternative embodiment the user may utilize a keyboard or other input device to select segments to be translated. Additionally the selected segment can be highlighted on the display .

In an illustrative embodiment the source data corresponds to a first language and the translated copy of the selected segment of source data corresponds to a second language. In an alternative embodiment the source data may correspond to multiple languages. For example a user in Germany may send an e mail to a user in France who adds comments and then forwards the e mail to a user in the United States.

In an illustrative embodiment the user interface also includes a display control . A user can obtain a selection of the display control . In response to the selection of the display control at least a subset of a translated copy of the source data can be displayed in the first portion of the display. Further in response to the selection of the display control the selected segment of the source data can be displayed in the second portion of the display. The display control may be a spin button or a flip button. In an illustrative embodiment the first portion of the display may include a background color which is indicative of the first language as an original language of the source data. By selecting the display control a user can switch the source data and the translated copy of the source data. This is very useful if machine translation was used and the user wants to find the best view that helps him or her to comprehend the information presented.

With reference now to an alternate user interface for displaying source data in a first language and a translated copy of a selected segment of the source data in a second language will be described. The illustrative user interface includes a first portion of the display for displaying a subset of the source data in a first language and a second portion of the display for displaying a translated copy of the selected segment of source data. As opposed to the first portion and second portion are horizontally adjacent. As the selected segment changes the corresponding translated copy of the segment changes as well.

In an illustrative embodiment the translated copy of the selected segment corresponds to a segment pointed at by a mouse cursor . As the mouse cursor moves over segments of source data the second portion of the display always displays a translated copy of the selected segment of source data. In an alternative embodiment the user may utilize a keyboard or other input device to select segments to be translated. The subset of source data displayed in the first portion of the display may correspond to multiple languages.

In an illustrative embodiment the user interface includes a display control . Further in an illustrative embodiment a user can obtain a selection of the display control . In response to selection of the display control at least a subset of a translated copy of the source data can be displayed in the first portion of the display. Further in response to the selection of the display control the selected segment of the source data can be displayed in the second portion of the display. In an illustrative embodiment the display control may be a spin button or a flip button. In an illustrative embodiment the first portion of the display may include a background color which is indicative of the first language as an original language of the source data.

In an illustrative embodiment by dragging and dropping one of the display portions or a user may switch from the user interface depicted in where the first portion of the display is horizontally adjacent to the second portion of the display to the user interface depicted in where the first portion of the display is vertically arranged above the second portion of the display. The drag and drop functionality allows a user to configure the user interface in a manner that best allows the user to comprehend the information presented.

With reference now to an illustrative multimedia application for displaying some associated text in a first language and a translation of the text in a second language will be described. In an illustrative embodiment the user interface can be displayed by a client device or receiving information from a broadcast source such as a cable head end system. The multimedia application includes a first display portion for displaying a multimedia display such as streaming media or video playback. The multimedia application also includes a second display portion for displaying some text associated with the multimedia display such as close captioning enhanced broadcasts and the like. Additionally the multimedia application includes a third display portion for displaying a translated copy of the text . As the multimedia display and second display portion generate content the third display portion provides a translated copy of a segment of the audio .

In an illustrative embodiment the user interface includes a translation menu and an options menu . The translation menu may allow the user to choose the target language. Further the user may select the trust level of the translation source. For example the user may select to receive translations from all sources or only a select subset that the user trusts. In an illustrative embodiment the options menu may allow the user to configure the user interface . For example the user may be able to change the font for the text or configure the amount of text displayed. In an illustrative embodiment the user can configure the user interface such that any of display portions and are hidden from view. Further the user may be given the opportunity to provide feedback on the usefulness of the translation. In an illustrative embodiment the source of the translation can also be displayed.

In an illustrative embodiment a confidence value may be displayed to the user to convey to the user the usefulness of the translation. A high confidence value typically correlates to a more useful translation. In an illustrative embodiment a display control enables a user to switch the source language and the target language. For example if the user desires to listen to the audio in the language displayed in the third display portion the user can activate the display control . In an illustrative embodiment the language displayed in the third display portion switches with the language displayed in the second display portion when the display control is activated.

With reference now to an illustrative user interface for displaying source data in a first language and a translated copy of a selected segment of the source data in a second language will be described. The illustrative user interface includes a first portion of the display for displaying a subset of the source data in a first language and a second portion of the display for displaying a translated copy of the selected segment of source data. In an illustrative embodiment the translated copy of the selected segment corresponds to a segment pointed at by a mouse cursor . As the mouse cursor moves over segments of source data the second portion of the display follows and always displays a translated copy of the segment pointed at by the mouse cursor . In an alternative embodiment the user may utilize a keyboard or other input device to select segments to be translated. In an illustrative embodiment the floating display portion may scroll down the screen at some pre configured rate. Further in an illustrative embodiment the floating display portion may appear transparent semi transparent opaque or include a colored background. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the second portion of the display essentially floats over the first portion of the display and is always visible. The subset of source data displayed in the first portion of the display may correspond to multiple languages. In an illustrative embodiment the first portion of the display encompasses the entire display and the second portion of the display is located within a portion of the first portion of the display.

In an illustrative embodiment the user interface includes display controls and which allow a user to configure the user interface . For example the user interface can include a display control that when selected by a user displays at least a subset of a translated copy of the source data in the first portion of the display while simultaneously displaying the selected segment of source data in the second portion of the display. In an illustrative embodiment selecting display control switches the source and target text and enables the user to find the best view that helps the user comprehend the information presented. The illustrative user interface can also include a display control that when selected re configures the first portion of the display so that it is horizontally adjacent to the second portion of the display. Further the illustrative user interface can also include a display control that when selected re configures the first portion of the display so that it is vertically arranged above the second portion of the display. In an illustrative embodiment the user interface includes a display control that when selected re configures the second portion of the display such that it is docked and no longer follows the mouse cursor . By selecting display control the user may dock the second portion of the display anywhere on the display.

The illustrative user interfaces and can be implemented by any program capable of displaying information to a user such as a word processing program web browser help window or operating system. In an illustrative embodiment user interfaces and can be configured to plug in to the user interface metaphor of the program that is implementing the illustrative user interfaces and . Further in an illustrative embodiment software applications may be launched with a source data display portion and a translation display portion. In an illustrative embodiment an application can be configured to contain a source data display portion and a translation display portion after the application is launched.

While illustrative embodiments have been illustrated and described it will be appreciated that various changes can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

