---

title: Memory array with write feedback
abstract: A memory array with write feedback includes a number of row lines intersecting a number of column lines, a memory element connected between one of the row lines and one of the column lines, an electrical condition supply to be selectively applied to one of the row lines; and a feedback control loop to control an electrical condition supplied by the electrical condition supply. A method for setting the state of a memory element within a memory array includes applying an electrical condition to the memory element within the memory array, sensing a resistive state of the memory element, and controlling the electrical condition based on the sensed resistive state to cause the memory element to reach a target resistance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08331129&OS=08331129&RS=08331129
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L. P.
number: 08331129
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100903
---
This invention has been made with government support under Contract No. HR0011 09 3 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

As the use of digital data increases the demand for faster smaller and more efficient memory structures increases. One type of memory structure that has recently been developed is a crossbar memory array. A crossbar memory array includes a first set of conductive lines which intersect a second set of parallel conductive lines. Programmable memory elements configured to store digital data are placed at intersections between the first set of lines and second set of lines.

One type of memory element which can be used is a memristive memory element. A memristive memory element can change the state of its resistance in response to an applied electrical condition such as a voltage or an electric current. The resistive state of a memristive memory element can be used to store digital data. For example a high resistance state can represent a digital 0 and a low resistance state can represent a digital 1 .

The electrical conditions used to set the state of a memristive memory element are typically applied in an open loop configuration. This means that the circuitry applying the electrical conditions is not made aware of the resistive state of the memristive devices being set. This leads to a variation in resistance levels between memristive memory elements in a particular state. It can also lead to a variation in resistance levels of one memory element in a particular state after each set. For example all of the memristive memory elements in a memory array that are set to a high resistive state may have varying resistance levels. Additionally all of the memristive memory elements in the array set to a low resistive state may have varying resistance levels. Furthermore a selected memory element set to a high resistance level may have varying resistance levels after each write operation. This can cause issues with the performance of the memory array including but not limited to increased error rate in memory reading and reduced upper limit of write cycles.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

As mentioned above the electrical conditions used to set the state of a memristive memory element are typically applied in an open loop configuration. This means that the circuitry applying the electrical conditions is not made aware of the resistive state of the memristive devices being set. This leads to a variation in resistance levels between memristive memory elements in a particular state. For example all of the memristive memory elements in the array set to a high resistive state may have varying resistance levels. Additionally all of the memristive memory elements in the array set to a low resistive state may have varying resistance levels. This can cause issues with the performance of the memory array.

In light of this and other issues the present specification discloses a memory array with writing circuitry that includes a closed feedback loop. The feedback loop allows the writing circuitry to be aware of the resistive state of a memory element as that memory element is being written. This allows the writing circuitry to control the electrical condition being applied so that the memory element reaches a specific resistance level.

For example the writing circuitry can apply a programming voltage or an electric current to the memory element. At a particular voltage level or current level the longer the voltage or current pulse is applied the more the resistance level of the memory element will change. When the memory element reaches a specific resistance level the feedback loop signals the writing circuitry to discontinue the application of the voltage or current to the memory element.

Through use of systems and methods embodying principles described herein a finer control over the resistive state of memory elements within an array can be realized. This finer control can reduce the variability between memory elements in a particular state. Additionally the finer control can allow multiple bits to be stored in a single memristive memory element. This allows a multi level cell memory array to be implemented.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present apparatus systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment but not necessarily in other embodiments. The various instances of the phrase in one embodiment or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Referring now to the figures is a diagram showing an illustrative crossbar memory array . According to certain illustrative examples the crossbar array includes a set of conductive row lines which are generally in parallel. Additionally a set of conductive column lines is generally perpendicular to and intersects the row lines . Programmable memory elements are disposed at the intersections between a row line and a column line . The terms row line and column line are not used to indicate a specific position or orientation. Rather the terms are used to distinguish position or orientation relative to one another.

According to certain illustrative examples the programmable memory elements may be memristive devices. Memristive devices exhibit a memory of past electrical stimuli. For example a memristive device may include a memristive matrix material that contains mobile dopants. These dopants can be moved within the memristive matrix to dynamically alter the electrical operation of the memristive device. More detail on the properties of memristive devices will be described below.

According to certain illustrative examples the crossbar array may be used to form a non volatile memory array. Each of the programmable memory elements is used to represent one or more bits of data. Although individual row lines and column lines in are shown with rectangular cross sections crossbars may also have square circular elliptical or more complex cross sections. The lines may also have many different widths diameters aspect ratios and or eccentricities. The crossbars may be nanowires sub microscale wires microscale wires or wires with larger dimensions.

According to certain illustrative examples the crossbar architecture may be integrated into a Complimentary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS circuit or other conventional computer circuitry. Each individual line may be connected to the CMOS circuitry by a via . The via may be embodied as an electrically conductive path through the various substrate materials used in manufacturing the crossbar architecture. This CMOS circuitry can provide additional functionality to the memristive device such as input output functions buffering logic configuration or other functionality. Multiple crossbar arrays can be formed over the CMOS circuitry to create a multilayer circuit.

Throughout this specification the term memristive matrix describes a thin film of material that is electronically semiconducting or nominally electronically insulating and also a weakly ionic conductor. The memristive matrix is capable of transporting and hosting ions that act as dopants to control the flow of electrons through the memristive device . The basic mode of operation is to apply an electrical field the drift field which may exceed a threshold for enabling the motion of the ions in the memristive matrix across the memristive device. The electrical field is large enough to cause an ionic species to be transported within the memristive matrix via ionic transport. The ionic species are specifically chosen from those that act as electrical dopants for the memristive matrix and thereby change the electrical conductivity of the matrix from a high resistive state to a low resistive state. Furthermore the memristive matrix and the dopant species are chosen such that the drift of the dopants within the memristive matrix is possible but not too facile. This ensures that the memristive device remains in whatever state it is set for a reasonably long time perhaps many years at room temperature. Thus the memristive device is nonvolatile. A nonvolatile device is one which holds its state with or without receiving power.

The matrix material may be a thin film generally less than 200 nm thick and is in many cases nanocrystalline or amorphous. The mobility of the dopant species in such nanostructured materials is much higher than in a bulk crystalline material since diffusion can occur through grain boundaries pores or through local structural imperfections in an amorphous material. Also because the film is so thin the amount of time required to drift enough dopants into or out of a local region of the film to substantially change its conductivity is relatively rapid. Another advantage of nanometer scale memristive devices is that a large electrical field can be produced by a relatively small applied voltage.

Conduction of electrons through the matrix material is frequently dominated by quantum mechanical tunneling of the electrons. When a semiconducting matrix material is essentially intrinsic at a junction with an electrode the tunneling barrier is high and wide causing the memristive device to be in a high resistive state. When a significant number of dopant species have been injected into or distributed throughout the semiconductor the width and perhaps the height of the tunneling barrier are diminished by the potential of the charged species. This results in an increase of the conductivity of the switch placing the memristive device in a low resistive state.

The electrodes may be constructed from a variety of conducting materials including but not limited to metals metal alloys metal composite materials nanostructured metal materials or other suitable conducting materials.

The memristive matrix has a height of H and a width of W as shown in . For purposes of illustration only assume that the height H is 100 nanometers and the width W is approximately 50 nanometers. As discussed above a relatively intense electrical field can be generated across the thin film of memristive matrix by a relatively small voltage. For example a dopant may require an electrical field intensity of 100 000 volts per centimeter to move within the matrix. If the distance between two electrodes is 100 nanometers a voltage bias of only 1 Volt applied across the first electrode and the second electrode will produce the required electrical field intensity of 100 000 volts centimeter through the memristive material . The application of a programming voltage above a certain threshold allows the dopants to be moved through the memristive matrix .

According to one illustrative example the initial application of a programming voltage to the memristive device is used to form the junction and define its characteristics. This initial programming voltage may be higher than other applied voltages used for operational purposes. The initial programming voltage may serve a number of functions which prepare the junction for further use. For example the programming voltage may result in the initial creation of additional mobile dopants or the migration of the mobile dopants into more active regions of the memristive matrix which reduces the effective thickness of the switching layer and causes an increased electric field with the same applied voltage. In addition the electric field for dopant drift in the switching process is usually lower than that for dopant creation in the electroforming process. Consequently lower programming voltages can be subsequently used to move the dopants the memristive matrix has been fabricated.

In some cases application of an electric current rather than a voltage may be better suited towards altering the resistive state of a memristive device. The resistive state of a memristive device is dominated by the highly resistive semiconducting region the tunnel gap . The final tunnel gap thickness after switching occurs can be a more sensitive function of the amount of current that flows through the device during switching event rather than a function of the applied voltage field strength that initiates the dopant drift.

Feedback loops are often used to provide information relative to the output of a system to the input of a system. A memory system embodying principles described herein may utilize a variety of feedback loop structures to cause a memory element to reach a target resistance. One such feedback loop structure will now be described.

The electrical condition supply is a component which outputs an electrical condition such as an electric current or a voltage. The electrical condition supply can output voltage or current pulses. These pulses may be of a variety of shapes including but not limited to square pulses triangular pulses and arbitrary linear and nonlinear waveforms.

The electrical condition supply can output either a voltage pulse or a current pulse. To apply a voltage or current pulse to a memory element the electrical condition supply can be selectively connected to a row line within a memory array. Methods used to select a particular memory element along that row line and prevent the voltage from adversely affecting the unselected memory elements within the memory array is beyond the scope of this specification. Thus a detailed description of such methods will not be given here.

A sensor is connected to the column line connected to the memory element . The sensor may be one of a variety of electrical components. For example the sensor may be a sense amplifier to sense the electric current flowing from the memory element . Because the current flowing from the memory element is dependent upon the resistive state of the memory element the sensor can produce an output voltage signal that is directly related to the resistive state of the memory element . This output voltage signal is then fed to one input of a comparator .

A comparator is an electronic circuit that makes a comparison between two input signals and outputs a signal based on that comparison. The output signal of a comparator typically outputs either a logic high signal or a low signal. For example if the first input of the comparator has a higher signal than the second input then the output will be a high signal. If the first input of the comparator has a lower signal than the second input the comparator will output a low signal. There is typically a time delay between the instant that one signal surpasses the other and the instant that the output of the comparator changes. When used in a feedback loop this time delay property of the comparator should be made small enough to ensure effective operation of the feedback loop .

In the example illustrated in the first input of the comparator is connected to a reference signal . The second input of the comparator is connected to the output of the sensor . If the signal from the sensor is lower than the reference signal then the comparator will output a low signal. When the output from the sensor goes higher than the reference signal then the comparator will output a high signal. The value of the reference signal may vary depending on the target resistance for the memory element . The reference signal can be chosen such that when the memory element reaches the target resistance the value of the output signal from the sensor will surpass the value of the reference signal . This will cause the comparator to switch from outputting a low signal to outputting a high signal.

The electrical condition supply can be set to start applying a voltage to the memory element at a given time. The electrical condition supply will then continue to apply this voltage until the signal received from the comparator changes. Because the signal from the comparator will change when the memory element reaches its target resistance value the application of the voltage will be discontinued at the proper time to cause the memory element to reach that target resistance.

According to one illustrative example the memristive memory element may be set to four different states. This allows the memory element to store two bits of data. The curve representing the digital value 11 represents the highest resistive state and the curve representing the digital value 00 indicates a low resistive state. A programming voltage or current can then be applied using the feedback loop as described above to change the resistance of the memory element a precise amount. For example the programming voltage may be applied long enough to decrease the resistance of the memory device and move IV curve to represent the digital value 10 . The voltage or current may be further applied to further decrease the resistance of the memory element and cause the IV curve to represent the digital value 01 . A programming voltage or current of opposite polarity will increase the resistance of the memory element and move the IV curve in the opposite direction.

According to one illustrative example a feedback loop may include a filter mechanism between the sensor and the input to the comparator . The filter mechanism filters the signal sent from the sensor to the comparator by reducing transients and spikes in the signal. This is beneficial because transients or spikes could trip the comparator before the memory element reaches the target resistance. One example of a filter mechanism which could be used is a sample and hold circuit.

According to one illustrative example the feedback loop may include a latch mechanism . The latch mechanism maintains a logic high signal after the comparator is triggered to output the logic high signal. The latch will maintain that logic high signal sent from the comparator output even if the comparator output changes back to a logic low signal level. The latch output can be reset to a logic low signal by a reset signal. This reset signal can be received by the latch mechanism before a subsequent write operation. The latch mechanism can prevent the feedback loop from running into oscillation due to possible sign reversal of the comparator differential input after the current or voltage pulse is stopped.

According to one illustrative example the feedback loop may include a counter . The counter can record data such as how long it typically takes for a memory element to reach a target resistance in response to the applied electrical condition. This information may be valuable when determining at what speed the memory array should be clocked. The data collected by the counter may be used for a variety of debugging and logging purposes.

According to one illustrative example the feedback loop may include an electrical condition limiter . The electrical condition limiter is a device that stops the electrical condition supply from continuing to apply an electrical condition. This may be beneficial in the case that the memory element is defective or worn out. If the memory element is defective or worn out then it may never reach the target resistance no matter how long an electrical condition is applied. The electrical condition limiter prevents the system from becoming locked up waiting for the comparator to trip. In one example the limiter can trip the comparator after a specified amount of time even if the signal from the sensor does not surpass the reference signal . Alternatively the limiter can send a signal directly to the electrical condition supply to cause application of the electrical condition to stop.

In conclusion through use of system and methods embodying principles described herein a finer control over the resistive state of memory elements within an array can be realized. This finer control can reduce the variability between memory elements in a particular state. Additionally the finer control can allow multiple bits to be stored in a single memristive memory element.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe embodiments and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

