---

title: Integration of active interest information with an address book
abstract: A system, method, and apparatus for integrating active interest information with an address book are provided. Active interest information is indicative of a current or ongoing interest of a first user and may be generated based on use of an application client by the first user. The active interest information is used to update an active interest field in a contact record describing the first user in an address book associated with a second user. The contact record may be updated by an address book client or a converged address book server. Provided is a converged address book server that manages the sharing and updating of active interest information and address books. The active interest information may also be updated using a personal contact card associated with the first user. Also provided is a method and apparatus for prompting communication between contacts based on active interest information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479603&OS=09479603&RS=09479603
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09479603
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100301
---
The present disclosure relates generally to contact information in an address book and in particular to integration of active interest information into a contact record describing a contact in an address book.

Many portable electronic devices such as cellular telephones smart telephones portable computers wireless PDAs and mobile communications devices enable communication with other persons and provide access to content through a wireless communications network. For example portable electronic devices may provide access to a variety of data services including Internet services such as portals websites and Internet provided multimedia Personal Information Management PIM services associated with calendar events task items memos or other personal information management data items instant messaging email messaging or other social networking applications. In addition to providing access to information portable electronic devices enable social interaction with other persons via voice communication and messaging.

One feature commonly found in a portable electronic device is an address book. An address book is an application for storing and accessing contact information. Traditionally address books have included static contact information to assist a user of a portable electronic device in establishing a communication session with a contact stored in the address book. Typical examples of an address book include a phone directory PIM contact items and social networking friends lists. In some implementations an address book may be managed on another electronic device such as a desktop or personal computer. A synchronization server or centralized storage server may provide synchronization of an address book to a portable electronic device. This may permit a convenient solution for a user to access an address book from a plurality of electronic devices including the portable electronic device.

Over the history of portable electronic devices the features associated with address books have evolved. For example a network enabled address book might make use of a network to exchange information among several address books. One type of network enabled address book is a converged address book CAB . This may also be referred to as centralized address book common address book coordinated address book or other words that refer to an address book which comprises information exchanged via a network. In some cases network enabled address books may be stored at a network based repository. By storing several converged address books at a network based repository a service provider may enable sharing of contact information and interworking of address books using standard data formats. The Open Mobile Alliance is a standardization group that has described the CAB as an evolution of the address book that is expected to serve as a launch pad for similarly evolving services dependent upon contact information. 

In some address books a user may manually enter information about interests and hobbies of a contact. More recently social networking tools allow a contact to share information about current thoughts photos or profile information. Typically this information has been manually entered or uploaded by the contact into the social networking tool. The social network software may allow users of the social networking tool to obtain the current profile information regarding the contact. However using the current features of an address book or shared profiles it may be difficult to timely and accurately maintain information about the active interests of contacts in an address book.

The present disclosure describes a method apparatus and system for updating an active interest field in a contact record describing a first user in an address book of a second user. The active interest field is updated based on active interest information associated with the first user and may be generated as a result of interaction with an application client. Furthermore the active interest information may be automatically generated and may be different from user generated interest descriptors.

Integration of active interest information with an address book may enhance the features of the address book making it more dynamic and informative about contacts. For example having the active interest information in a contact record may provide an improvement to the functionality of an address book. This may assist an address book client or a converged address book server to identify shared interests based on contact records in an address book. The present disclosure provides a method and apparatus for prompting communication between contacts based on active interest information in an address book.

In this disclosure active interest information may comprise any information that indicates a current or ongoing interest of a contact and is generated based upon interaction by the contact with an application. The active interest information may be generated at a portable electronic device address book client agent application or at another component of a converged address book system. Active interest information may also be referred to as active interest indicia current interest information implicit interest information or other terms that refer to information indicative of a current or ongoing interest of a user. Active interest information may not be the same as user entered data about the interests and hobbies of the user.

Active interest information may be determined based on activity data associated with an application client. Activity data is information that describes an interaction by a user with an application client. For example the application client may describe an activity of the user in the application client in activity data. Alternatively a portable electronic device application server or agent application may describe an activity of the user in the application client by generating activity data. In another example the activity data may describe patterns of usage of the application client such as frequency of use or usage of various application clients belonging to a common class of applications.

In one embodiment a first address book client may share active interest information via a network to another address book client or via a converged address book server. A converged address book server may provide access to store retrieve or maintain active interest information regarding several contacts in a network enabled address book. In one embodiment of this solution the inclusion of active interest information in contact records of an address book may enable coordination of social interactions. The active interest information may be processed to identify shared interests between two or more contacts. For example a first user of a first address book client may be engaged in an activity that is related to a current interest of a second user of a second address book client. When a shared interest is identified a portable electronic device converged address book server or other component may prompt a communication between the second user and the first user. For example an address book client associated with a second user may provide a prompt to the second user to send a message to the first user based on the shared interest. Alternatively an application client activated by the second user may prompt the communication between the second user and the first user based on the shared interest.

Referring now to an example system is described in which an address book client may share active interest information based on activity data from an application client. In a first portable electronic device comprises a first address book client . The first address book client may access shown as double headed arrow a first address book . While the first address book is depicted in as memory storage in the first portable electronic device it should be understood that the first address book may be stored in an external device not shown . For example the first address book client may access the first address book via a wireless communications network and may use one or more communication protocols for accessing information such as extensible markup language XML hypertext transfer protocol HTTP structured query language SQL or any other protocol which allows the first address book client to access the first address book . Additionally the first address book client may have access to multiple address books. For example the first address book may comprise contact records obtained from more than one address book sources.

The first address book client also has an application programming interface API shown as double headed arrow . The API is an interface implemented by a software program to enable interaction with other software. In the API enables interaction between the first address book client and a first application client . The first application client may be for example an application on the first portable electronic device that provides a user interface not shown to the user of the first portable electronic device . As non limiting examples the first application client may be a web browser a media player a messaging client or any other application which involves interaction by the user. As further example the first application client may comprise a remote control application that is associated with a separate media application either on the first portable electronic device or on a separate device . It should be understood that it is not necessary for the first address book client to be integrated or control the first application client in any way. For example the API may be an interface whereby the first address book client monitors information to or from the first application client without a direct interface between the first application client and the first address book client .

In a second portable electronic device has similar structural and logical elements as the first portable electronic device . The second address book client has access double headed arrow to a second address book and also has a second API to a second application client . Furthermore there is a communication link depicted by double headed arrow between the first portable electronic device and the second portable electronic device . The communication link could comprise for example a wireless communications network.

Turning now to an example embodiment of the present disclosure the first address book client obtains via API some activity data from the first application client . In this example the first address book client may monitor activity of the first application client to obtain activity data or may receive activity data directly from the first application client . After obtaining the activity data the first address book client may determine active interest information based on the activity data. In some cases the activity data will already be in a form of active interest information. In other cases the first address book client or some other component of the first portable electronic device may generate active interest information based on the activity data. When the first address book client or some other component of the first portable electronic device generates active interest information the active interest information may also include information obtained via another source such as the result of a database query internet query translation conversion or compression generated based upon the activity data. For example a contact may be engaged in an activity e.g. viewing content related to a specific sporting event in a media player and the active interest information may comprise a tag that identifies the interest e.g. football or an identification of a football team associated with the content .

The API may comprise an agent not shown in some embodiments where the agent has access to the first application client to collect activity data. The agent may also be referred to as an agent application proxy application helper application or any other terms to refer to an agent that is capable of obtaining activity data associated with the first application client . In the first application client is shown as a component of the first portable electronic device . However in other embodiments the API comprises an agent having access to a first application client on a separate device. For example API may be a remote monitoring application that collects activity data or active interest information from a first application client on a separate machine. The agent may utilize a variety of communication protocols and or access protocols to access the first application client. Communication protocols may include without limitation extensible markup language XML hypertext transfer protocol HTTP structured query language SQL or any other protocol which enables communication between applications. Examples of access protocols may include without limitation short range radio frequency communication such as Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Wireless USB or others wireless cellular technologies wireless networking technologies or wired connectivity including USB FireWire HDMI or others .

In one embodiment the first application client or the first address book client may determine patterns of activity or analyze historical activity data to generate active interest information. For example the application client may create a local datastore that comprises a history of activities performed by a user e.g. a list of media events viewed on a media player . Alternatively a pattern of usage of an application client may also be used to obtain active interest information. For example if a camera application is used frequently the active interest information may indicate that photography is an active or ongoing interest of the user. Likewise activity data associated with frequent use of a class of applications may also be used to obtain active interest information. Frequent use of social networking applications might be used to generate active interest information that indicates socializing as an active or ongoing interest. Frequent use of gaming applications as a class of applications might cause the active interest information to indicate an interest in gaming. If activity data from a location based application suggests that the physical location of the device changes often such as Global Positioning System GPS coordinates changing frequently then the active interest information may indicate an interest in travelling.

The first address book client communicates the active interest information via the communication link to the second address book client . In other embodiments the active interest information may be communicated through a converged address book server or via other communication methods. The second address book client updates a contact record in the second address book the contact record describing a contact associated with the first address book client . For example the second address book client updates an active interest field in the contact record based on the active interest information received from the first address book client . Because the active interest information was generated based upon the contact s use of the first application client the updated active interest field may indicate a current or ongoing interest of the contact.

In addition to updating the contact record in the second address book the second address book client may optionally compare the active interest information with other activity data or other active interest information associated with the use of the second application client . For example if the second address book client receives the active interest information that suggests the contact associated with first address book client is viewing a media stream the second address book client may determine if the user of the second portable electronic device is also viewing the same media stream via the second application client . Alternatively the second address book client may compare other activity data based on use of the second application client with contact records in the second address book to may identify a contact record having an active interest field related to the other activity data. In an optional feature the second address book client having identified the contact record with a related active interest field may prompt a communication between the user of the second address book client and the user of the first address book client . For example prompting the communication may be an indication to the user of the second portable electronic device that the contact identified by the contact record is also watching the same live internet video stream allowing the user to call or send a message to the contact.

In the PCC there may be information elements shown as fields . For example the information elements may be a name stored in field user specified interests stored in field and an active interest field . Portions of the PCC may be shared with other address books. For example there may be a logical link represented by double arrow between the PCC in the first address book and a corresponding contact record in the second address book . The logical link operates in such a way that when the active interest field is updated in the PCC the corresponding contact record is also updated in the second address book .

The second address book may have a plurality of contact records . However one of the contact records in the second address book corresponding contact record is logically linked with the PCC in the first address book . The logical link may be implemented in a number of ways. For example the first address book client may periodically send a message to all address book clients that it knows to contain a corresponding contact record associated with PCC . Alternatively the first address book client may coordinate with a network based address book or a converged address book server to update a PCC contact record. When the converged address book server receives an update to PCC it may share the updated information with other address book clients that have subscribed to the PCC . When another address book client has subscribed to the PCC it will have a corresponding contact record that is automatically updated based on the shared information in the PCC .

Similar to the first portable electronic device a second portable electronic device has a second communications link with the converged address book server . The converged address book server has a protocol for accessing a second network based address book . In the second address book client is a subscriber to the PCC associated with the first address book client . Therefore if the first address book client updates via the converged address book server the active interest field in PCC the information is also updated in a corresponding contact record in the second network based address book .

In another embodiment the converged address book server may manage active interest information on behalf of the address book clients that utilize the converged address book server . For example the first address book client may transmit activity data to the converged address book server and the converged address book server may generate the active interest information associated with the user of the first address book client based on the activity data. For example the converged address book server may have more resources or processing capabilities than the first address book client making the generation of active interest information more efficient. Alternately the converged address book server may have access to a larger information resource for determining patterns of usage or appropriate active interest information. For example the larger information resource may comprise statistical information associating various types of activity data with determined active interest information. In an implementation where active interest information is represented by keywords or tags the converged address book server may manage a list of keywords or tags allowing for standardization or normalization of active interest information among a plurality of address book clients.

The converged address book server may process contact records to identify matching active interest fields for contact records. For example the converged address book server may receive active interest information from the second address book client indicative of a current or ongoing interest of the user of the second address book client . The converged address book server may process the contact records in the second network based address book to identify at least a first matching contact record. In this example the converged address book server may identify the corresponding contact record has having an active interest field that matches the current or ongoing interest of the user of the second address book client . Optionally the converged address book server may prompt a communication between the user of the first address book client and the second address book client .

As described previously the converged address book server may receive activity data rather than active interest information. To process contact records to identify matching active interest fields the converged address book server may compare the active interest fields in contact records with the received activity data or may compare the active interest fields with generated active interest information generated by the converged address book server based on the received activity data . Therefore it should be understood that the matching of active interest fields in contact records may be performed with received activity data received active interest information generated active interest information generated from activity data or based on active interest information stored in active interest field of a contact record.

Matching of an active interest field with activity data or active interest information does not necessarily require an identical match but may comprise a subset superset or logical relationship between the matched fields. A person of skill in the art would readily conceive of examples where shared interests could be represented by a variety of active interest information or activity data. For example active interest information associated with viewing a re run of a classic television program might be matched with an active interest field specifying a different classic television program. In this example the matching might be based on the genre relative time period or a common actor or actress.

In some embodiments the active interest information is removed from the active interest field of a contact record after a period of time. For example a timer in the converged address book server first address book client or second address book client may initiate a periodic review of the active interest field to remove stale active interest information. The active interest information may be associated with a timestamp in the active interest field. Alternatively the active interest field may comprise a queue of entries having a fixed number of entries where the earliest entry is removed whenever a new entry is added. When the active interest information is removed from the active interest field the removal may be based upon a preconfigured time interval after updating the active interest field. In this way it may be possible for the active interest field in the contact record to comprise only active interest information from a fixed time period starting before the present time and ending at the present time.

In this example the first portable electronic device has a first application client that is accessing represented by double headed arrow the application server . As previously described first application client may alternatively be external to the first portable electronic device . Although not used in the description of the first portable electronic device may optionally comprise an API that enables access between an optional first address book client and the first application client .

In the application server may send activity data or active interest information to the converged address book server based on the use of the first application client . Alternatively the converged address book server may obtain the activity data or active interest information from the application server by requesting monitoring or interfacing with the application server .

In one example when the first application client requests access to content from the application server the application server may communicate with the converged address book server to determine whether the user of the first address book client has proper subscription or credentials to access the content. If the request for access provides some description about the content requested the request may be used as activity data and the converged address book server may generate active interest information based upon the request for access to the content.

The interface between the converged address book server and the application server may be described in a variety of ways known to a person of skill in the relevant art. In one example the interface represents a communication protocol or link between the converged address book server and the application server . In another example the interface may comprise a middleware proxy 3party service provider network provider interface or any component method or system capable of sharing information from the application server with the converged address book server .

In a specific example application server may be associated with a media service aggregator and may interact with a first application client either on first portable electronic device or on another machine . The application server may be configured to generate and transmit active interest information such as a viewing indication viewing history sharing notification or user rating indicator etc to a social networking application based on a subscriber s access of the application server from a first application client . In this example the converged address book server may receive updates from the social networking application to integrate the active interest information into the active interest field of a contact record associated with the user of the social networking application. This allows contact records associated with the user of the first application client to be updated in other users address books.

Similar to previous figures depicts a second address book client associated with a second portable electronic device . The second portable electronic device has a second communications link with the converged address book server . The converged address book server has a protocol for accessing a second network based address book . The converged address book server may also have access to other network based address books such as optional first network based address book . In the second network based address book has a plurality of contact records including contact record having contact information about the first user.

In some embodiments the application monitoring link may comprise a reporting function not shown of the first application client where the reporting function sends activity data or active interest information to the agent . In other embodiments the application monitoring link may comprise a collecting function not shown of the agent wherein the collection function obtains activity data or active interest information from the first application client . The agent may also collect activity data by monitoring a network link utilized by the first application client . For example if the first application client is a media player the agent may be positioned relative to the first application client to monitor network requests for media content.

Similar to the application monitoring link the agent may have a service monitoring link shown as double headed arrow . The service monitoring link may be implemented using common techniques such as a reporting capability of the service appliance a polling capability of the agent or a network monitoring capability of the agent .

As the agent obtains activity data or active interest information from either the first application client or the service appliance the agent prepares and transmits active interest information via the server reporting link to the converged address book server . If the agent obtains activity data it may generate active interest information based on the activity data. The agent may also transmit user identifying information to the converged address book server such as user identifying information about the first user. For example the user identifying information may be collected from the first application client or the service appliance . Alternatively the user identifying information may be pre configured in the agent . In another example the agent may send agent identification information identifying the agent . The converged address book server may utilize the agent identification information to obtain the user identifying information from a data source.

The converged address book server in may operate according to methods described in this disclosure. When the converged address book server receives the active interest information associated with the first user it may update a contact record describing the first user in another user s address book. Alternatively the converged address book server may update a personal contact card describing the first user which causes updates to corresponding contact records in other address books.

In an alternative embodiment the agent may use a device reporting link shown by double headed arrow for communicating active interest information or activity data to a first address book client on the first portable electronic device . For example the agent may be an agent on the first portable electronic device and may communicate active interest information via the device reporting link to the first address book client . The first address book client could communicate the active interest information to the converged address book server via a first communication link or may update a PCC associated with the user of the first portable electronic device .

It should be understood that the application monitoring link service monitoring link and device reporting link may be implemented using one of a variety of communication protocols access protocols or application programming interfaces. For example the link may be a polling script a socket based connection hypertext transfer protocol HTTP communication extensible markup language XML or any protocol that enables communication between applications. Examples of access protocols may include without limitation short range radio frequency communication wireless cellular technologies wireless networking technologies or wired connectivity.

The arrow indicates that the first portable electronic device may share the active interest information to the second portable electronic device in a variety of ways. In one example the active interest information may be communicated by a first address book client and may be transmitted via a wireless communication network. In another example the active interest information may be shared by updating a personal contact card associated with the first portable electronic device the personal contact card being shared with the second address book client. As described in this disclosure the active interest information may be shared via a converged address book server or directly between address book clients of the first portable electronic device and second portable electronic device respectively.

The right side of depicts an example method in a second portable electronic device. At block the second portable electronic device receives the active interest information associated with a contact record in the second address book. The second address book may be stored at the second portable electronic device or may be accessible via a wireless network by a second address book client on the second portable electronic device. At block the second portable electronic device may optionally update the contact record to include the active interest information. In other example methods the second portable electronic device may not update the contact record but may instead use the active interest information to prompt communication or may inform the user of the second address book client regarding the active interest information associated with the contact record. At block the second portable electronic device may optionally prompt a communication with a contact identified by the contact record based upon the active interest information. For example if the user of the second portable electronic device is also engaged in an activity related to the active interest information associated with the contact record the second portable electronic device may prompt a communication between the user of the second portable electronic device and the contact identified by the contact record.

At block the server updates based on the received active interest information an active interest field in a contact record describing the first user in an address book associated with a second user. This operation may include the sharing of an active interest field in a personal contact card associated with the first user. For example the server may update any corresponding contact records for one or more address books which subscribe to the personal contact card of the first user. Alternatively the server may update contact records that identify the first user in one or more address books.

At optional block the server may receive other active interest information based on use of a second application client by the second user. For example the other active interest information may be received from a second address book client. At optional block the server may process contact records in the address book associated with the second user to identify a relationship between the active interest field of the contact record describing the first user and the other active interest information of the second user. In one embodiment the optional block may comprise an operation to identify a matching contact record based on a logical relationship between the active interest field of the matching contact record and the other active interest information. The matching contact record may be the contact record describing the first user that was updated in block . The server may identify one matching contact record or may identify several matching contact records.

At block the server may optionally prompt a communication between the first user and the second user based on a relationship between the active interest field associated with the contact record describing the first user and the second active interest information associated with the second user.

The portable electronic device may include a display . The portable electronic device may also include a touch sensitive surface a keyboard or other input keys generally referred as for input by a user. The keyboard may be a full or reduced alphanumeric keyboard such as QWERTY Dvorak AZERTY and sequential types or a traditional numeric keypad with alphabet letters associated with a telephone keypad. The input keys may include a trackwheel an exit or escape key a trackball and other navigational or functional keys which may be inwardly depressed to provide further input function. The portable electronic device may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. For example a prompt to initiate communication with a contact may be actuated by an input portion of the portable electronic device .

Among the various applications executable by the portable electronic device is for example an address book application which may be used to present contact information on the display . In some embodiments the contact information may be obtained via wireless communications with a wireless network access node a cell tower a peer portable electronic device or any other wireless communication network or system . The network may be coupled to a wired network such as the Internet. Via the wireless link and the wired network the portable electronic device can have access to information on various servers such as a server . The server may provide content that may be shown on the display . Alternately the portable electronic device may access the network through a peer portable electronic device acting as an intermediary in a relay type or hop type of connection. A portable electronic device may be operable to transmit over one or more of any suitable wireless networks known in the art.

The portable electronic device converged address book server and other components described above may include a processing component that is capable of executing instructions related to the actions described above. illustrates an example embodiment of a system that includes a processing component suitable for implementing one or more of the embodiments earlier described herein. In addition to the processor which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU the system may include network connectivity devices random access memory RAM read only memory ROM secondary storage and input output I O devices location module data module filter module . These components may communicate with one another via a bus . In some cases some of these components may not be present or may be combined in various combinations with one another or with other components not shown. These components may be located in a single physical entity or in more than one physical entity. Any actions described herein as being taken by the processor might be taken by the processor alone or by the processor in conjunction with one or more components shown or not shown in the drawing such as a digital signal processor DSP . Although the DSP is shown as a separate component the DSP may be incorporated into the processor . Although the recipient callback module filter module location module and data module are shown as separate components any of them may be incorporated into the processor or may be implemented using one or more components shown in .

The processor executes instructions logic codes computer programs or scripts that it may access from the network connectivity devices RAM ROM or secondary storage which might include various disk based systems such as hard disk floppy disk or optical disk . While only one CPU is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as being executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise by one or multiple processors. The processor may for example be implemented as one or more CPU chips or modules. The processor may also be integrated with other functions of portable electronic device in or on a single chip or module.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet devices universal serial bus USB interface devices serial interfaces token ring devices fiber distributed data interface FDDI devices wireless local area network WLAN devices radio transceiver devices such as code division multiple access CDMA devices global system for mobile communications GSM radio transceiver devices worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX devices and or other well known devices for connecting to networks. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more telecommunications networks or other networks from which the processor might receive information or to which the processor might output information. The network connectivity devices might also include one or more transceiver components capable of transmitting and or receiving data wirelessly.

The RAM might be used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions that are executed by the processor . The ROM is a non volatile memory device that in some cases has a smaller memory capacity than the memory capacity of the secondary storage . ROM might be used to store instructions and perhaps data that are read during execution of the instructions. Access to both RAM and ROM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and might be used for non volatile storage of data or as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. However the secondary storage could be implemented using any appropriate storage technology including so called solid state disk FLASH EEPROM or other generally non volatile or persistent storage. Secondary storage may be used to store programs that are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution.

The I O devices may include liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers printers video monitors or other well known input devices. Also the transceiver might be considered to be a component of the I O devices instead of or in addition to being a component of the network connectivity devices . Some or all of the I O devices may be substantially similar to various components depicted in the previously described drawing of the portable electronic device such as the display and the input .

A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments described herein may be modified without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example in one embodiment there may be a converged address book system comprising a first address book client associated with a first user and a first address book a second address book client associated with a second user and a second address book a server configured to receive active interest information from the first address book client based on use of a first application client by the first user and update in the second address book an active interest field in a contact record describing the first user based on the active interest information received from the first address book client. The converged address book system may receive an updated personal contact card from the first address book client the updated personal contact card comprising the active interest information. The converged address book system may transmit the active interest information to the second address book client via a network.

The steps processes or operations described herein are examples. There may be many variations to these steps or operations without departing from the scope of this disclosure. For instance where appropriate the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified. Although example embodiments of this disclosure have been depicted and described in detail herein it will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art that various modifications additions substitutions and the like can be made without departing from the concepts and embodiments disclosed herein and these are therefore considered to be within the scope of the present subject matter as defined in the following claims.

