---

title: Apparatus and method for securing the stomach to the diaphragm for use, for example, in treating hiatal hernias and gastroesophageal reflux disease
abstract: A patient's stomach may be secured to the patient's diaphragm. A method to accomplish this includes visualizing a wall of a patient's stomach adjacent the patient's diaphragm from within the patient's stomach, inserting a fastener deployment apparatus down the patient's esophagus and into the mammalian's stomach, and fastening the patient's stomach to the patient's diaphragm with the fastener deployment apparatus and from within the stomach. The procedure may be employed to advantage to treat a hiatal hernia, for example, either alone or in conjunction with the restoration of the patient's gastroesophageal flap valve.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09414832&OS=09414832&RS=09414832
owner: EndoGastric Solutions, Inc.
number: 09414832
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100224
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 203 680 filed Aug. 12 2005 now abandoned. The entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated for all purposes.

The present invention generally relates to securing the stomach to the diaphragm to treat or as integral part of treating . . . for example hiatal hernias and gastroesophageal reflux disease. The present invention more particularly relates to fixing the stomach to the diaphragm transorally without the need for invasive surgical incisions.

A hiatal hernia is an anatomical abnormality in which part of the stomach protrudes through the diaphragm and up into the chest. Hiatal hernias are present in approximately 15 of the population and its occurrence increases with age. Recent studies estimate that it is present in 60 65 of those over 60 years of age.

Normally the esophagus or food tube passes down through the chest crosses the diaphragm and enters the abdomen through a hole in the diaphragm called the esophageal hiatus. This hole is a muscular tube or channel of about two to three vertebrae in length. Just below the diaphragm the esophagus joins the stomach at the gastroesophageal junction. In individuals with hiatal hernias the opening of the esophageal hiatus hiatal opening is larger than normal and a portion of the upper stomach slips up or passes herniates through the hiatus and into the chest. Although hiatal hernias are occasionally seen in infants where they probably have been present from birth most hiatal hernias in adults are believed to have developed over many years.

It is thought that hiatal hernias develop as a part of permanent positive pressure in the abdomen and negative pressure in the chest with thousands of daily unsynchronized movements of the esophagus and diaphragm. Over time the phrenoesophageal bundles or membrane elongate allowing the gastroesophageal junction GEJ to slip into the chest. Widening is currently thought of as being the result of mechanical dilatation and recurrent inflammation in the herniated stomach often referred to as the acid chamber which leads to periesophagitis and retraction of the diaphragmatic muscle over time. As a result of the large opening part of the stomach slips into the chest. Another potentially contributing factor is an abnormally loose attachment of the esophagus to the diaphragm which allows the esophagus and stomach to slip upwards.

Hiatal hernias are categorized as being either sliding or para esophageal. Sliding hiatal hernias are those in which the junction of the esophagus and stomach referred to as the gastro esophageal junction and part of the stomach protrude into the chest. The junction may reside permanently in the chest but often it juts into the chest only during a swallow or if the patient is in a recumbent position. This occurs because with each swallow the muscle of the esophagus contracts causing the esophagus to shorten and to pull up the stomach through the widened diaphragm. When the swallow is finished the esophagus relaxes and the herniated part of the stomach falls back into the abdomen. Para esophageal hernias are hernias in which the gastro esophageal junction stays where it belongs attached at the level of the diaphragm but part of the stomach passes or bulges into the chest beside the esophagus. The para esophageal hernias themselves may remain in the chest at all times and are not affected by swallows.

A para esophageal hiatal hernia that is large particularly if it compresses the adjacent esophagus may impede the passage of food into the stomach and cause food to stick in the esophagus after it is swallowed. Ulcers also may form in the herniated stomach due to the trauma caused by food that is stuck or acid from the stomach. Fortunately large para esophageal hernias are uncommon.

The vast majority of hiatal hernias are of the sliding type. The larger the hernia the more likely it is to cause symptoms. When hiatal hernias produce symptoms they may also be associated with gastro esophageal reflux disease GERD to be described herein after or its complications. GERD can occur because the formation of the hernia often interferes with the natural barrier which prevents acid from refluxing from the stomach into the esophagus. Patients with GERD are much more likely to have a hiatal hernia than individuals not afflicted by GERD. Thus it is clear that hiatal hernias contribute to GERD.

Normally there are several mechanisms to prevent acid from flowing backwards refluxing up into the esophagus. One mechanism involves a band of esophageal muscle where the esophagus joins the stomach called the lower esophageal sphincter that remains contracted most of the time to prevent acid from refluxing or regurgitating. The sphincter only relaxes when food is swallowed so that the food can pass from the esophagus and into the stomach. The area of the sphincter normally is attached firmly to the diaphragm in the hiatus through the phrenoesophageal membrane and the muscle of the diaphragm also called the crura of the diaphragm wraps around the gastroesophageal junction and the sphincter much like a scarf. The muscle that wraps around the diaphragm augments the pressure of the contracted sphincter and the gastroesophageal junction to further prevent reflux of acid.

Another mechanism that prevents reflux is the valve like tissue at the junction of the esophagus and stomach just below the sphincter. The esophagus normally enters the stomach tangentially so that there is a sharp angle between the esophagus and stomach. The piece of tissue in this angle composed of esophageal and stomach wall forms a valve that can close off the opening to the esophagus at all times and even more when pressure increases in the stomach for example during eating when the stomach is filled. It can however open to allow gastric air or contents to pass into the esophagus in a healthy subject e.g. during belching or vomiting.

When a hiatal hernia is present two changes occur. First the sphincter slides up into the chest while the diaphragm remains stationery. As a result the pressure normally generated by the diaphragm overlying the sphincter and the pressure generated by the sphincter no longer overlap and as a result the total pressure at the gastro esophageal junction decreases. Second when the gastro esophageal junction and stomach are pulled up into the chest with each swallow the sharp angle where the esophagus joins the stomach becomes less sharp and the valve like effect is lost. Both changes promote reflux of acid. With the diaphragm pinching the herniated stomach and the LES closing the esophagus an acid chamber may result leading to severe esophagitis with periesophagitis and potentially ulceration and bleeding. Due to the periesophagitis the crura also retract leading to a widening of the diaphragmatic opening over time and worsening of the hiatus hernia.

Hiatal hernias are diagnosed incidentally when an upper gastrointestinal x ray or endoscopy is done during testing to determine the cause of upper gastrointestinal symptoms such as upper abdominal pain. On both the x ray and endoscopy the hiatal hernia appears as a separate sac lying between what is clearly the esophagus and what is clearly the stomach. This sac is delineated by the lower esophageal sphincter above and the diaphragm below.

Treatment of large para esophageal hernias causing symptoms requires surgery. During surgery the stomach is accessed invasively through incisions made in the abdomen or in the chest. The stomach is pulled down into the abdomen the esophageal hiatus is made smaller and the esophagus is attached to the diaphragm with sutures. Although the procedure restores the normal anatomy it is invasive requiring weeks or even months of recovery before all normal activity may be resumed.

As will be seen subsequently the present invention provides an alternative procedure for treating hiatal hernias. Instead of being surgically invasive the new procedure according to the various embodiments described herein after may be performed transorally without the need for invasive incisions. As a result patients are able to recover much more quickly and return to normal activity within a few days.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD is a chronic condition caused by the failure of the anti reflux barrier located at the gastroesophageal junction to keep the contents of the stomach from splashing into the esophagus. The splashing is known as gastroesophageal reflux. The stomach acid is designed to digest meat and other foods and will digest esophageal tissue when persistently splashed into the esophagus.

A principal reason for regurgitation associated with GERD is the mechanical failure of a deteriorated gastroesophageal valve to close and seal against high pressure in the stomach. Due to reasons including lifestyle a Grade I normal gastroesophageal valve may deteriorate into a malfunctioning Grade III or absent valve Grade IV. With a deteriorated gastroesophageal valve the stomach contents are more likely to be regurgitated into the esophagus the mouth and even the lungs. The regurgitation is referred to as heartburn because the most common symptom is a burning discomfort in the chest under the breastbone. Burning discomfort in the chest and regurgitation burping up of sour tasting gastric juice into the mouth are classic symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD . When stomach acid is regurgitated into the esophagus it is usually cleared quickly by esophageal contractions. Heartburn backwashing of stomach acid and bile onto the esophagus results when stomach acid is frequently regurgitated into the esophagus and the esophageal wall is inflamed.

Complications develop for some people who have GERD. Esophagitis inflammation of the esophagus with erosions and ulcerations breaks in the lining of the esophagus can occur from repeated and prolonged acid exposure. If these breaks are deep bleeding or scarring of the esophagus with formation of a stricture narrowing of the esophagus can occur. If the esophagus narrows significantly then food sticks in the esophagus and the symptom is known as dysphagia. GERD has been shown to be one of the most important risk factors for the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma. In a subset of people who have severe GERD if acid exposure continues the injured squamous lining is replaced by a precancerous lining called Barrett s Esophagus in which a cancerous esophageal adenocarcinoma can develop.

Other complications of GERD may not appear to be related to esophageal disease at all. Some people with GERD may develop recurrent pneumonia lung infection asthma wheezing or a chronic cough from acid backing up into the esophagus and all the way up through the upper esophageal sphincter into the lungs. In many instances this occurs at night while the person is in a supine position and sleeping. Occasionally a person with severe GERD will be awakened from sleep with a choking sensation. Hoarseness can also occur due to acid reaching the vocal cords causing a chronic inflammation or injury.

GERD never improves without intervention. Life style changes combined with both medical and surgical treatments exist for GERD. Medical therapies include antacids and proton pump inhibitors. However the medical therapies only mask the reflux. Patients still get reflux and perhaps emphysema because of particles refluxed into the lungs. Barrett s esophagus results in about 10 of the GERD cases. The esophageal epithelium changes into tissue that tends to become cancerous from repeated acid washing despite the medication.

Several open laparotomy and laparoscopic surgical procedures are available for treating GERD. One surgical approach is the Nissen fundoplication. The Nissen approach typically involves a 360 degree wrap of the fundus around the gastroesophageal junction. The procedure has a high incidence of postoperative complications. The Nissen approach creates a 360 degree moveable valve without a fixed portion. Hence Nissen does not restore the normal movable valve. The patient cannot burp because the fundus was used to make the repair and may frequently experience dysphagia. Another surgical approach to treating GERD is the Belsey Mark IV Belsey fundoplication. The Belsey procedure involves creating a valve by suturing a portion of the stomach to an anterior surface of the esophagus. It reduces some of the postoperative complications encountered with the Nissen fundoplication but still does not restore the normal movable valve. None of these procedures fully restores the normal anatomy or produces a normally functioning gastroesophageal junction. Another surgical approach is the Hill repair. In the Hill repair the gastroesophageal junction is anchored to the posterior abdominal areas and a 180 270 degree valve is created by a system of sutures. The Hill procedure restores the moveable portion of the valve the cardiac notch and the Angle of His. However all of these surgical procedures are very invasive regardless of whether done as a laparoscopic or an open procedure.

New less surgically invasive approaches to treating GERD involve transoral endoscopic procedures. One procedure contemplates a machine device with robotic arms that is inserted transorally into the stomach. While observing through an endoscope an endoscopist guides the machine within the stomach to engage a portion of the fundus with a corkscrew like device at the hinge point. The arm then pulls on the engaged portion to create a fold of tissue or radial plication at the gastroesophageal junction. The angle of His or the valve remain unaltered. Another arm of the machine pinches the excess tissue together and fastens the excess tissue with one pre tied implant. This procedure does not restore normal anatomy. The fold created does not have anything in common with a valve. In fact the direction of the radial fold prevents the fold or plication from acting as a flap of a valve.

Another transoral procedure contemplates making a fold of fundus tissue near the deteriorated gastroesophageal flap to recreate the lower esophageal sphincter LES . The procedure requires placing multiple U shaped tissue clips around the folded fundus to hold it in shape and in place.

This and the previously discussed procedure are both highly dependent on the skill experience aggressiveness and courage of the endoscopist. In addition these and other procedures may involve esophageal tissue in the repair. Esophageal tissue is fragile and weak in part due to the fact that the esophagus is not covered by serosa a layer of very sturdy yet very thin tissue covering and stabilizing all intraabdominal organs similar like a fascia covering and stabilizing muscle. Involvement of esophageal tissue in the repair of a gastroesophageal valve poses unnecessary risks to the patient such as an increased risk of fistulas between the esophagus and the stomach.

A new and improved apparatus and method for restoration of a gastroesophageal flap valve is fully disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 790 214 issued Sep. 14 2004 is assigned to the assignee of this invention and is incorporated herein by reference. That apparatus and method provides a transoral endoscopic gastroesophageal flap valve restoration. A longitudinal member arranged for transoral placement into a stomach carries a tissue shaper that non invasively grips and shapes stomach tissue. A tissue fixation device is then deployed to maintain the shaped stomach tissue in a shape approximating a gastroesophageal flap.

Since transoral GEFV restoration is a certain reality it would be most desirable to be able to treat potentially related hiatal hernias in a similar manner to avoid invasive surgery altogether. The present invention addresses this and other issues.

The invention provides a method comprising visualizing a wall of a patient s stomach adjacent the patient s diaphragm from within the patient s stomach inserting a fastener deployment apparatus down the patient s esophagus and into the patient s stomach and fastening the patient s stomach to the patient s diaphragm with the fastener deployment apparatus and from within the stomach. The fastening step may include fastening the patient s stomach to a crus of the patient s diaphragm such as the right crus or to the muscular or tendenous portion of the diaphragm. The fastening step may in addition or alternatively include fastening the fundus of the patient s stomach to the patient s diaphragm.

The invention further provides an assembly comprising an elongated member including a proximal end and a distal end and a fastener deployer carried at the distal end of the elongated member. The elongated member and fastener deployer are arranged to feed the fastener deployer down a throat and esophagus into a stomach. The fastener deployer is further arranged to fasten the stomach to an adjacent diaphragm. The assembly further comprises a visualization device that enables visualization of the stomach being fastened to the adjacent diaphragm.

The fastener deployer may be arranged to fasten the stomach to a crus of the diaphragm such as the right crus. The fastener deployer may alternatively or additionally be arranged to fasten the fundus of the stomach to the diaphragm. The fastener deployer may comprise an elongated arm that positions the fastener deployer spaced away from the esophageal opening to the stomach and in contact with the fundus.

The fastener deployer may include at least one fastener to be deployed. The fastener may comprise a first member a second member the first and second members having first and second ends and a connecting member fixed to each of the first and second members intermediate the first and second ends and extending between the first and second members. The first and second members are separated by the connecting member. One of the first and second members has a through channel along the axis arranged to be slidingly received on a tissue piercing deployment wire.

The fastener may further comprise a slit extending between the first and second ends and communicating with the through channel.

The fastener deployer may further comprise a deployment wire arranged to be slidingly received by the through channel of the one of the first and second members to pierce into the tissue to be fastened and to guide the fastener into the tissue. The fastener deployer may further comprise a pusher that pushes the one of first and second members into the tissue while on the deployment wire and a guide tube extending over the deployment wire and the fastener that guides the deployment wire and fastener to the tissue. The fastener deployer may still further comprise an elongated arm that supports and positions the guide tube spaced away from the esophageal opening to the stomach and in proximity with fundus of the stomach.

The invention still further provides a method of treating a stomach disorder. The method comprises providing a transoral gastroesophageal valve restoration device feeding the device down the esophagus into the stomach forming a gastroesophageal valve with the device from within the stomach fastening stomach tissue to maintain the gastroesophageal valve and securing the stomach to the diaphragm from within the stomach.

The step of securing the stomach to the diaphragm may include fastening the stomach to a crus of the diaphragm such as the right crus. The step of securing the stomach to the diaphragm may alternatively or additionally include fastening fundus of the stomach to the diaphragm.

The method may further comprise gripping the esophagus and displacing the esophagus until the stomach is completing within the diaphragm before securing the stomach to the diaphragm. The steps of gripping the esophagus and displacing the esophagus until the stomach is completing within the diaphragm may be performed before the step of forming a gastroesophageal valve with the device from within the stomach.

The invention still further provides a method of treating a hiatal hernia of a patient associated with the patient s esophagus stomach and diaphragm. The method comprises the steps of gripping the esophagus displacing the esophagus towards the diaphragm until the stomach is completely positioned below the diaphragm and securing the stomach to the diaphragm. The gripping displacing and securing steps are performed transorally.

The step of securing the stomach to the diaphragm may include fastening the stomach to the right crus of the diaphragm. The step of securing the stomach to the diaphragm may alternatively or additionally include fastening fundus of the stomach to the diaphragm.

The gripping step may include gripping sidewalls of the esophagus. The sidewalls of the stomach may be gripped with a vacuum.

The invention further provides a fastener deployment apparatus that deploys a fastener in body tissue. The apparatus comprises a window permitting visualization of internal body anatomy when placed in a body a location marker viewable in the window and a fastener deployer having a predetermined orientation relative to the location marker that ejects a fastener for deployment at a predetermined location relative to the location marker.

The invention further provides a method of treating a hiatal hernia and restoring a gastroesophageal valve of a patient. The method comprises the steps of gripping the esophagus displacing the esophagus aborally to reduce the hiatal hernia and manipulating tissue of the stomach while maintaining a grip on the esophagus to restore the gastroesophageal valve. The gripping displacing and manipulating steps are performed transorally.

The method may further comprise the step of securing the stomach to the diaphragm. The manipulating step may include forming a gastroesophageal valve flap and the method may further comprise deploying at lease one fastener through the gastroesophageal valve flap to maintain the valve and the reduced hiatal hernia.

The fundus of the greater curvature forms the superior portion of the stomach and traps gas and air bubbles for burping. The esophageal tract enters the stomach at an esophageal orifice below the superior portion of the fundus forming a cardiac notch and an acute angle with respect to the fundus known as the Angle of His . The lower esophageal sphincter LES is a discriminating sphincter able to distinguish between burping gas liquids and solids and works in conjunction with the fundus to burp. The gastroesophageal flap valve GEFV includes a moveable portion and an opposing more stationary portion.

The moveable portion of the GEFV is an approximately 180 degree semicircular gastroesophageal flap alternatively referred to as a normal moveable flap or moveable flap formed of tissue at the intersection between the esophagus and the stomach . The opposing more stationary portion of the GEFV comprises a portion of the lesser curvature of the stomach adjacent to its junction with the esophagus . The gastroesophageal flap of the GEFV principally comprises tissue adjacent to the fundus portion of the stomach . It is about 4 to 5 cm long at it longest portion and its length may taper at its anterior and posterior ends.

The gastroesophageal flap is partially held against the lesser curvature portion of the stomach by the pressure differential between the stomach and the thorax and partially by the resiliency and the anatomical structure of the GEFV thus providing the valving function. The GEFV is similar to a flutter valve with the gastroesophageal flap being flexible and closeable against the other more stationary side.

The esophageal tract is controlled by an upper esophageal sphincter UES in the neck near the mouth for swallowing and by the LES and the GEFV at the stomach. The normal anti reflux barrier is primarily formed by the LES and the GEFV acting in concert to allow food and liquid to enter the stomach and to considerably resist reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus past the gastroesophageal tissue junction . Tissue aboral of the gastroesophageal tissue junction is generally considered part of the stomach because the tissue protected from stomach acid by its own protective mechanisms. Tissue oral of the gastroesophageal junction is generally considered part of the esophagus and it is not protected from injury by prolonged exposure to stomach acid. At the gastroesophageal junction the juncture of the stomach and esophageal tissues form a zigzag line which is sometimes referred to as the Z line. For the purposes of these specifications including the claims stomach means the tissue aboral of the gastroesophageal junction .

Dr. Hill and colleagues developed a grading system to describe the appearance of the GEFV and the likelihood that a patient will experience chronic acid reflux. L. D. Hill et al. Gastrointestinal Endoscopy 1996 44 541 547. Under Dr. Hill s grading system the normal movable flap of the GEFV illustrated in is a Grade I flap valve that is the least likely to experience reflux. The deteriorated gastroesophageal flap of the GEFV illustrated in is a Grade IV flap valve. The Grade IV flap valve is the most likely to experience reflux. Grades II and III reflect intermediate grades of deterioration and as in the case of III a high likelihood of experiencing reflux. With the deteriorated GEFV represented by deteriorated gastroesophageal flap and the fundus moved inferior the stomach contents are presented a funnel like opening directing the contents into the esophagus and the greatest likelihood of experiencing reflux. Disclosed subsequently is a device assembly and method which may be employed to advantage according to an embodiment of the invention to treat the hiatal hernia and restore the normal gastroesophageal flap valve anatomy.

Referring now to it shows a device according to an embodiment of the present invention. The device includes a longitudinal member for transoral placement of the device into the stomach. The device further includes a first member hereinafter referred to as the chassis and a second member hereinafter referred to as the bail. The chassis and bail are hingedly coupled at . The chassis and bail form a tissue shaper which as described subsequently in accordance with this embodiment of the present invention shapes tissue of the stomach into the flap of a restored gastroesophageal flap valve. The chassis and bail are carried at the distal end of the longitudinal member for placement in the stomach.

The device has a longitudinal passage to permit an endoscope to be guided through the device and into the stomach. This permits the endoscope to service as a guide for guiding the device through the patient s throat down the esophagus and into the stomach. It also permits the gastroesophageal flap valve restoration procedure to be viewed at each stage of the procedure.

As will be seen subsequently to facilitate shaping of the stomach tissue the stomach tissue is drawn in between the chassis and the bail . Further to enable a flap of sufficient length to be formed to function as the flap of a gastroesophageal flap valve the stomach tissue is pulled down so that the fold line is substantially juxtaposed to the opening of the esophagus into the stomach. Hence as will be seen the stomach is first gripped at a point out and away from the esophagus and the grip point is pulled to almost the hinged connection of the chassis and bail . As described in copending application Ser. No. 11 001 666 filed Nov. 30 2004 entitled FLEXIBLE TRANSORAL ENDOSCOPIC GASTROESOPHAGEAL FLAP VALVE RESTORATION DEVICE AND METHOD which application is incorporated herein by reference the device is fed down the esophagus with the bail substantially in line with the chassis . To negotiate the bend of the throat and as described in the aforementioned referenced application the chassis and bail are rendered flexible. The chassis is rendered flexible by the slots and the bail is rendered flexible by the hingedly coupled links . Further details concerning the flexibility of the chassis and the bail may be found in the aforementioned referenced application.

As further shown in the device further includes a tissue gripper . The gripper in this embodiment comprises a helical coil . The coil is carried at the end of a cable and may be attached to the end of the cable or be formed from the cable. In this embodiment the helical coil is attached to the cable and is preceded by a guide whose function will be described subsequently.

The helical coil is shown in an approximate position to engage the stomach tissue out and away from the opening of the esophagus to the stomach. The helical coil is guided into position by a guide structure carried on the bail . The guide structure comprises a guide tube . When the device is first introduced down the esophagus into the stomach the helical coil is caused to reside well within the guide tube to preclude the helical coil from accidentally or inadvertently snagging esophageal or stomach tissue.

The guide tube includes a longitudinal slit having a circuitous configuration. The slit permits the end of the cable to release or disassociate from the bail after the stomach tissue is gripped. The circuitous configuration of the slit assures confinement of the cable within the guide tube until release of the cable is desired. The proximal end of the slit has an enlarged portion or opening not shown . This opening permits the cable and helical coil to reenter the lumen when the device is readied for a repeated stomach tissue shaping procedure. To that end the guide has a conical surface that serves to guide the cable end back into the opening of the slit .

With continued reference to the device further comprises a fastener deployer . The fastener deployer includes at least one fastener deployment guide . The fastener deployment guide takes the form of a guide lumen. Although only one guide lumen is shown it will be appreciated that the device may include a plurality of such lumens without departing from the invention. The guide lumen terminates at a delivery point where a fastener is driven from the device and into for example the molded stomach tissue. The fastener deployer may also be used according to an embodiment to secure the stomach to the diaphragm.

The device further includes a window within the chassis . The window is formed of a transparent or semi transparent material. This permits gastroesophageal anatomy and more importantly the gastroesophageal junction Z line to be viewed with the endoscope . The window includes a location marker which has a know position relative to the fastener delivery point . Hence by aligning the marker with a known anatomical structure the fastener will be delivered a known distance from or at a location having a predetermined relation to the marker. For example by aligning the marker with the Z line it will be know that the fastener will be placed aboral of the Z line and that serosa tissue will be fastened to serosa tissue. As previously mentioned this has many attendant benefits.

It may also be mentioned at this point that the device further includes an invaginator including a plurality of orifices . These orifices which alternatively may be employed on the longitudinal member are used to pull a vacuum to cause the device to grip the inner wall surface of the esophagus. This will serve to stabilize the esophagus and maintain device positioning during the procedure. This vacuum gripping of the esophagus may also be used to particular advantage in the treatment of a hiatal hernia. Upon being thus gripped the esophagus may be moved downwardly with the device toward the stomach to pull the stomach to within the diaphragm to eliminate the hiatal hernia.

Referring now to it shows the device in position to secure the stomach to the diaphragm following a successful restoration of a GEFV flap and or to treat a hiatal hernia. More particularly the device of is shown positioned in the stomach by the elongated member . It is also rotated by about 180 degrees from its position shown in to align the guide channel with the lesser curve. This will enable the fastener deployer to deploy at least one fastener to secure the lesser curve of the stomach to the right crus of the diaphragm . The endoscope is positioned in the stomach and brought to a reflexed view as illustrated so that it may look back on the device for visualization of the procedure.

The invaginator has vacuum gripped the sidewalls of the esophagus. This permits the device to be used for displacing the esophagus aborally towards the stomach for reducing the hiatal hernia. Preferably the esophagus is displaced sufficiently so that the stomach is behind or within the diaphragm . The esophagus is held in this position throughout the procedure.

Next the fastener deployer deploys the at least one fastener as illustrated. A deployment procedure for the application is described in greater detail herein after. The fastener is deployed to secure the lesser curve of the stomach to the right crus of the diaphragm . Of course in an actual procedure a plurality of spaced fasteners would be deployed.

Once the fasteners are deployed the device is removed from the stomach . This may be accomplished by first aligning the bail with the chassis of the device . The endoscope may be used as a guide to guide the device out of the stomach and through the esophagus throat and mouth.

With the stomach thus secured to the diaphragm the original anatomy is restored to correct the hiatal hernia. As will be noticed this has been accomplished according to this embodiment completely transorally without the need for any invasive surgical procedures.

Referring now to it shows another device according to an embodiment of the invention for securing the stomach to the diaphragm . Here the fundus of the stomach is being secured to the diaphragm .

The device may be employed for the restoration of a GEFV and or to treat a hiatal hernia. The device is carried at the distal end of an elongated member for being transorally placed in the stomach . It preferably includes an invaginator of the type previously described for gripping the esophagus and displacing it and the stomach aborally towards the diaphragm to reduce or eliminate the hiatal hernia. The invaginator may also be used to grip the esophagus during the restoration of the GEFV after reduction of a hiatal hernia.

The device includes a support arm that supports a fastener deployer in close proximity to the fundus of the stomach . The fastener deployer includes a guide tube supported by the arm . The guide tube guides the tissue piercing wire and the fasteners to the location where they are to be deployed. Again a suitable deployment procedure and related deployment assembly are described herein after.

The device further carries an endoscope . Again the endoscope is positioned to enable visualization of the procedure. It is guided by a guide channel in the elongated member .

The arm is arranged for pivotal movement at to enable proper positioning of the fastener deployer . To that end it may be noted that the arm reaches outwardly to displace the fastener deployer and the fasteners spaced away from the esophageal opening to the stomach .

Now that a device according to an embodiment of the present invention and its use for treating a hiatal hernia has been described a method of restoring the flap of a gastroesophageal flap valve according to this embodiment of the present invention will now also be described with reference to . The procedure for restoring the flap of a gastroesophageal flap valve begins with loading a fastener or a plurality of fasteners into the device . As will be seen hereinafter the fastener deployer includes a stylet which guides each fastener into the tissue to be fastened. The process of loading a fastener according to this embodiment includes snapping a fastener onto the stylet. A representative fastener and stylet will be described subsequently with respect to .

Next the bail is moved to be substantially in line with the chassis . Next the endoscope is inserted into the device with an appropriate lubricant on the endoscope. Next a bite block of the type well known in the art is inserted into the patient s mouth. A lubricant may be applied to the device and the device may now be inserted through the bite block in the subject s mouth. With the endoscope leading the device as illustrated in the endoscope and device combination are fed down the esophagus into the stomach. Of course when the endoscope reaches its fully inserted position the device may be further advanced on the endoscope utilizing the endoscope as a guide to within the stomach of the patient.

As previously mentioned the device is able to clear the bend in the patient s throat by virtue of being flexible as previously described. With the endoscope serving as a guide tube very little force should be needed to get the device around the neck into the pharynx and down into the esophagus.

Once the device is positioned in the stomach as shown in the stomach is inflated as shown in by passing air through the endoscope into the stomach. The inflation of the stomach may be noted by the outward arcuate deflection of the stomach . The stomach should be inflated to a first pressure just sufficient to open the stomach and provide good visibility of gastric folds on the interior wall of the stomach. Visualization of such gastric folds permits discernment of a proper point to grip the stomach for forming the gastroesophageal flap valve flap in a manner to be described hereinafter. Once the stomach has been inflated to the first pressure the device is placed in a desired position relative to the Z line by placing the marker of the window in a desired position relative to the Z line marking the transition from the esophagus to the stomach . In accordance with this embodiment the marker is aligned with the Z line . In order to visualize the marker and the Z line the endoscope is pulled back into the device and more particular adjacent the marker to visualize when the marker is aligned with the Z line . With the marker aligned with the Z line the distance from the marker to a proximal point of the elongated member relative to a rather fixed anatomy site of the patient such as an incisor may be measured. This measurement may be marked on the elongated member and later utilized for positioning the marker adjacent the Z line .

Referring now to with the stomach still inflated to the first pressure the endoscope is positioned inside the device just past the hinged connection of the bail and chassis . With the endoscope being located just past the hinged connection the bail is then actuated to an approximally one half closed position as illustrated. As the bail moves the bail should be watched to make sure that it moves towards the greater curve so it can move freely in the open space of the gastric cavity. With the endoscope in the position as shown in the bail should be visible at all times.

Referring now to the endoscope is advanced back into the stomach and brought to a reflexed view as illustrated so that it may look back on the device . With the operating end of the device in clear view the device is positioned in the center of the gastroesophageal flap valve to be formed where the posterior and anterior groove should be. This position is typically opposite the lesser curve .

Next the device positioning relative to the Z line is checked to make sure that the marker is in its desired position relative to the Z line . In accordance with this embodiment the marker is placed adjacent or is aligned with the Z line .

With the device in the correct starting position as shown in a vacuum pump communicating with orifices is energized to pull a vacuum through the orifices . This causes the orifices to engage the wall of the esophagus for gripping the esophagus. As previously mentioned this invagination permits the esophagus to be pushed into the stomach by distal movement of the elongated member to treat a hiatal hernia and to stabilize the position of the device within the stomach. The vacuum is continued to be pulled through the orifices until the vacuum is above the 50 kps mark on the vacuum pump. The device is then pushed gently aborally to reposition the esophagus to correct a hiatal hernia. It may be noted that this maneuver can also be used to visually check the position of the faster delivery point relative to the Z line. During this maneuver the esophagus may roll back on itself and expose the esophageal Mucosa and the Z line adjacent to the fastener delivery ports.

Referring now to with the device locked in position by the vacuum orifices the area in which the helical coil is to be engaged may be identified. The gripping location may be largely determined by the size or length of the flap to be restored of the restored gastroesophageal flap valve. This of course may differ from one patient to another depending on the severity of the hiatal hernia and the degree of valve degradation. Once the gripping location is selected the stomach is inflated to a second and higher pressure. The inflation pressure of the stomach is increased to the second and higher pressure so that the Mucosa appears tight and the folds essentially flatten. With the correct gripping spot identified the bail is moved to position the tip of a helical coil at the correct gripping spot. Next the device is gently pulled upwardly or orally until the bail contacts the tissue at the desired gripping spot. Next the helix is advanced by the pushing of the cable until the helix pushes into the Mucosa. Next the cable is turned to likewise turn the helix in a clockwise direction to screw the helix into the tissue. As the cable is turned some wind up may be filled in the helix drive cable.

With the helical coil firmly seated in the tissue the wind up in the cable is released. Referring now to with the retractor firmly seated in the tissue the device may be advanced slightly orally while at the same time the bail may be opened slightly. This releases the cable from the guide tube which has now been pulled back into the bail . The cable exits the guide tube by slipping through the circuitous slit . This operation is more particularly described in the aforementioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 061 318 filed Feb. 18 2005 incorporated herein by reference. Also at this time the correct positioning of the device relative to the Z line may be verified.

With the bail slightly opened and the helix engaged with the tissue the interior of the stomach is now deflated through the endoscope . The stomach should be deflated such that the tissue appears loose and collapsed with the Mucosa folds being prominent. However enough room should be left to view the device.

Referring now to the gastric tissue is now gently pulled with the helix and cable towards the hinged connection and the valve mold to be formed by the chassis and closing bail . Once the helix is fully retracted into the bail it is locked in place. The bail may now be closed and the device and anatomy will appear as shown in . Here it will be noted that the stomach tissue aboral of the Z line is confined between the bail and chassis to create a fold . The fold is also adjacent the fastener delivery point at the end of the fastener guide lumen. Since the fastener deployment point is a known predetermined distance from the marker of the window and since the marker is aligned with the Z line when a fastener is delivered from the fastener deployer of the device the fastener will exit the fastener delivery point at a point known to be aboral of the Z line . This assures that only serosa tissue is being adhered to serosa tissue in the fixation of the stomach tissue in creating the flap . The flap comprises layers and of stomach tissue.

With the tissue layers and now disposed within the mold of the chassis and bail the bail may now be locked with respect to the chassis . It is now time to fasten the tissue layers and together by ejecting a fastener from the fastener deployer lumen through the flap from the fastener delivery point . The fastener thus deployed will serve to maintain the restored GEFV and the reduced hiatal hernia.

Before a fastener is ejected from the fastener deployer lumen the stomach is once again inflated through the endoscope . The stomach is inflated to a point where one has a good view of the tissue fold and bail .

The first member is generally cylindrical or can any shape. It has a channel that extends therethrough. The though channel is dimensioned to be slidingly received on a tissue piercing deployment wire .

The first member includes a pointed tip . The tip may be conical and more particularly takes the shape of a truncated cone. The tip can also be shaped to have a cutting edge in order to reduce tissue resistance.

The first member also has a continuous lengthwise slit . The slit includes an optional slot that communicates with the through channel . The slot has a transverse dimension for more readily enabling receipt of the tissue piercing deployment wire during deployment of the fastener . Also because the fastener member is formed of flexible material the slit may be made larger through separation to allow the deployment wire to be snapped into and released from the through channel .

In addition to the fastener and the deployment wire the assembly shown in further includes a pusher and a guide tube . The subassembly of the tissue piercing wire fastener and pusher may be guided to its intended location relative to the tissue layers and by the guide tube . The tissue piercing wire fastener and the pusher are all initially within the guide tube . The guide tube is representative of the fastener deployment guide and to that end includes the fastener deployment guide lumen . The subassembly of the tissue piercing wire fastener and pusher may be guided to its intended location relative to the tissue layers and by the guide lumen .

As shown in the tissue piercing wire has a tip helping it pierce the tissue layers and that will form the restored gastroesophageal flap valve flap . The pusher has pushed the first member of the fastener through the tissue layers and on the tissue piercing wire . This may be accomplished by moving the wire and the pusher together.

As may be further noted in the first member is clearing the wire and tissue layer . The tissue piercing wire may now be retracted into the pusher and the tissue piercing wire and pusher may be withdrawn.

In accordance with a further method of utilizing the fastener deployment assembly of the tissue piercing wire may be first advanced through the tissue layers and by a full stroke and then locked. The tip of the deployment wire should extend through the bail with minimal tenting of the tissue. Next the pusher is advanced. Visual confirmation that the first fastener member is through the tissue is then made. In doing so the very distal end of the pusher may be visible when the first member of the fastener is fully deployed. Next while holding the pusher at the last noted position the tissue piercing wire is retracted. The first member of the fastener will fall to the side when the tissue piercing wire reaches the pusher . When the tissue piercing wire reaches the pusher and after the fastener is deployed the pusher is pulled back with the tissue piercing wire. If additional fastener deployment guides are provided the foregoing steps for deploying a fastener such as fastener may be repeated.

With the fasteners successfully deployed the vacuum pull through orifices may now be turned off to release the device from the esophagus wall as illustrated in . At this time the bail of the device may be slightly opened and the helical coil may be released from the stomach tissue. As may be seen in the procedure just described results in a flap to be formed. At this time an additional fastener or fasteners may be loaded onto the tissue piercing deployment wire at the proximal end of the longitudinal member .

To render the flap uniform about the opening of the orifice into the stomach it is necessary at this time to rotate the device and repeat the previously described procedure for forming a further flap portion. Before this is done however it is desirable to position the bail to an almost closed position. Then the device is moved aborally further into the stomach until the tip end of the bail comes to rest on the tip of the newly formed flap portion. This is the location where the helical coil will next engage the stomach tissue for molding and fixating as previously described.

The foregoing is repeated until a complete valve flap is formed. When the appearance of the valve flap is satisfactory as viewed through the endoscope for visual confirmation the helical coil is reloaded back into its original position with the device . The vacuum suction through orifices is turned off to release the wall of the esophagus from the device. The bail is then moved to a fully opened position as seen for example in . The endoscope may now be retracted along with the stylet and pusher controls. With the retraction of the foregoing verified the stomach may now be deflated and the device may be removed from the stomach and esophagus. This then completes the GEFV restoration procedure according to this embodiment of the invention.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described modifications may be made and it is thereto intended in the appended claims to cover all such changes and modifications which fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

