---

title: Growth and transfer of monolithic horizontal nanowire superstructures onto flexible substrates
abstract: In a method of making a monolithic elongated nanowire, a mask polymer layer is applied to a selected crystal surface of a seed crystal. A plurality of spaced apart elongated openings is defined through the mask polymer layer, thereby exposing a corresponding plurality of portions of the crystal surface. The openings are disposed so as to be aligned with and parallel to a selected crystal axis of the seed crystal. The portions of the crystal surface are subjected to a chemical nutrient environment that causes crystalline material to grow from the plurality of portions for at least a period of time so that monocrystalline members grow from the elongated openings and until the monocrystalline members laterally expand so that each monocrystalline member grows into and merges with an adjacent one of the monocrystalline members, thereby forming a monolithic elongated nanowire.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08518736&OS=08518736&RS=08518736
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08518736
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101229
---
This invention was made with government support under contract No. Department of Energy awarded by the DE FG02 07ER46394. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to nanostructures and more specifically to a method for making elongated nanostructures.

Zinc oxide ZnO is a piezoelectric material that has a direct wide band gap of 3.37 eV and a large excitation binding energy of 60 meV. It has been used in a variety of applications including electronic optoelectronic electrochemical and electromechanical nanodevices such as ultraviolet UV lasers light emitting diodes field emission devices solar cells high performance nanosensors piezoelectric nanogenerators and nano piezotronics. ZnO nanowires NWs have been synthesized by a wide range of approaches such as physical vapor deposition wet chemical method pulsed laser deposition metal organic chemical vapor deposition molecular beam epitaxy etc. By controlling the synthesis parameters a control has been demonstrated on their morphology dimensionality crystallinity and aspect ratio of the ZnO NWs.

Typically most ZnO nanowires have been formed as freely floating inside the solution body and entangled with each other. In order to integrate the ZnO NWs into functional nanodevices a seeded growth method has been used to grow vertically aligned ZnO NW arrays by coating a substrate with a ZnO seed thin film prior to wet chemical growth. However the ZnO seed film was polycrystalline in nature and the vertical alignment of the seeded grown ZnO NW arrays was rather poor. By employing an epitaxial relationship on monocrystalline substrates almost perfectly vertically aligned ZnO NW arrays were grown on GaN AlGaN SiC AlO and MgAlOsubstrates. In an effort to arrange the ZnO NWs into a more regular form to further enhance the performance of the nanodevices the positions of the ZnO NWs on the substrate have been controlled by a variety of techniques including photolithography nano sphere lithography nano imprint lithography and electron beam lithography.

Horizontally grown ZnO NWs may have many potential applications. In growing such horizontal nanowires instead of coating a top surface of the substrate ZnO seed thin films are coated on the sidewalls of the trenches on the substrate so that the ZnO NWs are able to grow parallel to the substrate surface. However the aligned ZnO NWs tend to be sparse and exhibit poor horizontal alignment. Horizontally aligned ZnO NW arrays can also be made on the top surface a substrate by controlling the surface texture of the as deposited polycrystalline ZnO seed film with pulsed laser deposition. Epitaxial growth of horizontal ZnO NW arrays on an a plane sapphire substrate by physical vapor deposition has been attempted but the method lacked uniformity and spatial control of the horizontal ZnO NWs. Horizontal alignment of ZnO NWs after growth has also been demonstrated by dispersing and floating the NWs in a solvent and then applying high frequency alternating electrical field. However existing methods have had difficulty growing long horizontal nanowires.

Also many potential applications of horizontally grown nanowires require placement of the nanowires on a flexible substrate. However existing methods of placement can be impractical.

Therefore there is a need for a method for growing long horizontal nanowires and embedding them in a flexible substrate.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a method of making a monolithic elongated nanowire in which a mask polymer layer is applied to a selected crystal surface of a seed crystal. A plurality of spaced apart elongated openings is defined through the mask polymer layer thereby exposing a corresponding plurality of portions of the crystal surface. The openings are disposed so as to be aligned with and parallel to a selected crystal axis of the seed crystal. The portions of the crystal surface are subjected to a chemical nutrient environment that causes crystalline material to grow from the plurality of portions for at least a period of time so that monocrystalline members grow from the elongated openings and until the monocrystalline members laterally expand so that each monocrystalline member grows into and merges with an adjacent one of the monocrystalline members thereby forming a monolithic elongated nanowire.

In another aspect the invention is a method of making an encapsulated nanostructure in which a mask polymer layer is applied to a selected crystal surface of a seed crystal. At least one opening is defined through the mask polymer layer thereby exposing a portion of the crystal surface. The portion of the crystal surface is subjected to a chemical nutrient environment that causes crystalline material to grow from the portion thereby forming a monolithic elongated nanostructure. A pre polymer is applied to the nanostructure and to the mask polymer layer. The pre polymer is allowed to polymerize thereby forming a flexible substrate that encapsulates the nanostructure with the mask polymer layer. The flexible substrate is peeled away from the selected crystal surface of the seed crystal with the nanostructure embedded therein.

In yet another aspect the invention is a device that includes a flexible polymer substrate and an elongated nanostructure disposed in the flexible polymer substrate.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

The following U.S. patent applications disclose methods of generating zinc oxide piezoelectric nanostructures of the types disclosed below and are hereby incorporated by reference Ser. No. 10 726 016 filed on Dec. 2 2003 by Wang et al. Ser. No. 11 608 865 filed on Dec. 11 2006 by Wang et al. Ser. No. 11 760 002 filed on Jun. 8 2007 by Wang et al. Ser. No. 12 209 310 filed on Sep. 12 2008 by Wang et al. and Ser. No. 12 413 470 filed on Mar. 27 2009 by Wang et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 586 095 issued on Jul. 1 2003 to Wang et al. also discloses methods of generating piezoelectric nanostructures and is hereby incorporated by reference.

As shown in in one embodiment of a method of making an elongated nanowire a mask polymer layer such as poly methyl methacrylate PMMA is applied to a selected face of a monocrystalline seed crystal such as a zinc oxide ZnO crystal. In one embodiment the selected face includes a selected one of a 2 0 surface or a 0 1 0 surface. A plurality of elongated openings is defined in the mask polymer layer thereby exposing portions of the surface of the monocrystalline seed crystal . The openings are aligned with and parallel to a selected crystal axis of the seed crystal . The openings are subjected to a chemical nutrient environment that causes crystalline material to grow from the seed crystal into a plurality of monocrystalline members . After a predetermined amount of time the monocrystalline members will grow into each other to form a monolithic elongated nanowire .

In one embodiment the single crystal ZnO 2 0 substrate which in one experimental embodiment was purchased from MTI Corporation 860 South 19th Street Richmond Calif. 94804 US was initially cleaned by a standard cleaning process in which the wafer was ultrasonicated consecutively in acetone ethanol IPA isopropyl alcohol and de ionized water each for 10 minutes then blew dry by nitrogen gas.

Then the substrate was spun coated with a 50 nm thick layer of PMMA available from MicroChem Corp. 90 Oak St. Newton Mass. 02464 at a speed of 6000 rotations per minute for 60 seconds. Then the monocrystalline substrate was baked on a hotplate at 180 C. for 120 seconds. After that a conductive organic film ESPACER also available from MicroChem. Corp. not shown was applied to the top of the PMMA layer to avoid charge accumulation from incoming electrons on the substrate .

In one embodiment the openings were made using known electron beam lithographic techniques. The line dose used ranged from 2.35 nC cm to 2.55 nC cm for the thinner openings and from 260 C cmto 360 C cmfor the wider openings . After the electron beam exposure the substrate was first rinsed in de ionized water for 1 min to remove the residual ESPACER then it was developed in a mixture of 3 1 in volume of IPA isopropyl alcohol and MIBK Methyl isobutyl ketone for 2 minutes.

Then the substrate was ready for hydrothermal crystal growth. The nutrient solution used here was composed of 1 1 ratio of zinc nitrate hexahydrate and HMTA hexamethylenetetramine . The patterned ZnO substrate was put in the growth solution facing down floating on the top surface of the nutrient solution by virtue of surface tension of the nutrient solution . The whole system was maintained at a temperature of between 80 C. and 85 C. for 2.5 hours. After growth the whole system was allowed to cool down to ambient temperature. Then the substrate was removed from the nutrient solution and immersed in IPA to remove any absorbed water. A resulting long horizontal nanowire is shown in and a detail of a junction between two segments of a nanowire is shown in .

As shown in the nanowires can be removed from the substrate by initially applying a pre polymer such as methyl methacrylate layer to nanowire and the mask polymer layer . The pre polymer layer is cured so that the pre polymer polymerizes with the mask layer to form a flexible substrate that encapsulates the monolithic elongated nanowire . The flexible substrate can then be peeled away from the surface of the seed crystal with the nanowire embedded therein. A side of the flexible substrate can be oxygen plasma etched to expose a flat side of the elongated nanowire . The overgrowth of one segment is shown in which is a cross sectional view of one segment .

In one experimental embodiment the thin layer of PMMA prepolymer served for two purposes First it formed strong interface chemical bonds with the existing PMMA photoresist that allowed the lifting off of the nanowires Second it provided a flexible thin film substrate onto which the nanowires can be bent. In the experimental embodiment the PMMA prepolymer was prepared by heating a methyl methacrylate MMA monomer with 0.1 benzoyl peroxide at 95 C. for 15 min and then cooling it to room temperature. After that the sample was kept at 50 C. for 10 hours and 100 C. for 1 hour to make the prepolymer fully polymerized. As a result of this the ZnO nanowires were embedded in the PMMA. Next the PMMA thin film was peeled away from the ZnO single crystal substrate so that the horizontal nanowires were transferred onto the PMMA thin film. Oxygen plasma was applied to the PMMA thin film to partially expose the buried NW arrays. The as grown and transferred horizontal ZnO NW arrays were characterized by scanning electron microscopy SEM at 5 kV and transmission electron microscopy TEM at 400 kV using a JEM 4000EX as shown in .

As shown in a first electrical contact can be applied to a first end of the elongated nanowire and a second electrical contact can be applied to a second end of the nanowire . The first electrical contact and the second electrical contact could include a material such as indium that forms an Ohmic contact with the nanowire or they could include a material such as gold that forms a Schottky barrier with the nanowire . In one embodiment the first electrical contact could form an Ohmic contact while the second electrical contact could form a Schottky contact.

This method allows for growth of horizontal ZnO nanowire arrays with extensive control of their width and length. By designing the layout of the photoresist openings on the substrate monolithic multi segment superstructures by virtue of lateral overgrowth of the ZnO nanowires can be fabricated. Furthermore by encapsulating the nanowire arrays with a polymer thin film the horizontal nanowire arrays can be lifted off and transferred onto flexible substrates which shows great promise for many applications based on horizontal ZnO NW arrays including chemical and biological sensor arrays light emitting diodes optical gratings integrated circuit interconnects and high output power alternating current nanogenerators.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

