---

title: Deployable shell with wrapped gores
abstract: A reflector useful for communications, radar and sensing application in space and on earth includes thin shell gores emanating from a geometric center of the reflector at its hub. Gores are provided in a spiraled pattern and are in elastic connection to said hub and wrapped around their point of convergence at the hub when the reflector is stowed. The gores emanate from the geometric center of the reflector hub at their elastic connection to the hub when they are deployed and operational as a reflector with a point of convergence to promote operation as a reflector. Thin shell gores can have an inner perimeter and outer perimeter, can be provided in a spiraled pattern, and can be interlocked at their outer perimeter, or in-between their inner and outer perimeter, while also remaining in elastic connection at their inner perimeter to said hub.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08462078&OS=08462078&RS=08462078
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08462078
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101214
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

The invention relates generally to the packaging of small deployable reflector antennas and in particular to reflector antennas that can be packaged within CubeSat dimensions.

The process of launching satellites from earth s surface into space subjects them to gravity and additional acceleration and aerodynamic loads from the launch vehicle. These loads create large stresses in any spacecraft components not uniformly supported by the launch vehicle and bus structures. To allow large components to be adequately supported and aerodynamically shielded by the launch fairing they are often collapsed to a smaller configuration. Once in space the components are deployed into their larger operational configurations. Reflector antennas an application of the current invention are often many times larger than the launch vehicle fairing and must be compactly packaged for launch and unfurled once in orbit. Such reflectors are used for space communications radar and other radio frequency missions.

Greschik proposed a deployment concept for a parabolic reflector in which incisions were made in a flexible shell surface of a parabola to transform the doubly curved surface into a quasi foldable mechanism G. Greschik The Unfolding Deployment of a Shell Parabolic Reflector 1995 AIAA 95 1278 CP . However this achieved poor packaging in either the radial or height directions. Tibbalds devised a new way of optimizing the folding scheme to improve on packaging B. Tibbalds S. D. Guest and S. Pellegrino Folding Concept for Flexible Surface Reflectors. 1998 and B. Tibbalds S. D. Guest an S. Pellegrino Inextensional Packaging of Thin Shell Slit Reflectors Technische Mechanik 2004 . A solid surface reflector is cut into spiral gores that fit together in a cylindrical manner about a central hub when packaged resembling a flower. The gores synchronously open out and unwrap during deployment with their edges pulled together by springs or other devices. No structural method is disclosed however to link the gores together once deployed. If flexible solid surface reflectors could be compressed into a smaller package and a means to hold their edges together once deployed were developed these concepts should become commercially successful for space applications. This is the intent of the present invention.

An elastically deployable thin shell nominally in the shape of a hemisphere or paraboloid is described. The invention is composed of thin shell gores radiating from the geometric center of the shape in a spiral pattern. Gores are specially shaped to elastically wrap around the point of convergence of the gores. Performing this wrapping operation reconfigures the shape from the deployed and operational configuration to a much smaller packaged configuration for transportation. Gores are structurally connected by a flexible mechanism. This mechanism looks and behaves similar to a pantograph mechanism and can be placed at multiple locations to structurally connect two gores.

A deployable parabolic or hemispherical shell is disclosed that compactly packages for launch and transportation and autonomously deploys to a much larger operational configuration. The invention uses stored elastic strain energy to power the deployment. External power is used only to activate release devices. Packaging is accomplished by cutting the shell in a spiral like pattern of slender gores that compactly wrap around the center of the shell. The invention improves upon prior art by achieving greater compaction at a lower cost than previous designs and greater rigidity when deployed.

The gore design is driven by the final specified packing size. For a CubeSat that would be a volume of one liter or a cube of 0.1 meter dimensions. Given design constraints of a parabolic dish of diameter D and cylindrical packing requirements of height h and diameter d with a given hub position within the cylinder the gore shape is determined as follows. shows geometry details relating to the final stowed height of the reflector. The difference between the deployed and curved states is due to the flattening of the curved surface to facilitate manufacturing in the case of a composite layup or to visualize the wrapped configuration. The hub is drawn as a dashed circle but is actually a polygon with the number of sides equal to the number of gores and having a diameter d. There is always an even number of gores. The horizontal dashed line extending from a polygon segment of the hub remains stationary as the gore is folded up out of the plane of the paper at the gore root and wrapped around the hub ending perpendicular to the plane of the hub. The gores are packaged to form a cylinder perpendicular to the hub plane of height h and diameter d as in . The position of the outer edge of the gore relative to the dashed line may vary half way between the upper and lower corners adjacent to the lower corner depending on the shape of the gore. This allows space for an antenna feed above the hub in the packaged configuration.

The height of the flattened gore h determines the total height of the packaged cylinder. In order to fit a parabolic dish of a specific deployed diameter D into the cylindrical package constraint d the dish needs to have enough gores to reduce the packaged height h to be within the constraint. The hub diameter must be small enough to allow for wrapping of material around the hub while remaining within the cylindrical diameter constraint d. The shape of the gore root is important in determining where and how easily the gore will make the necessary bend to set the wrapping about a vertical axis. It is most effective to make the gore root depart the hub radially and to configure the geometry so that this is the narrowest section of the gore.

Proper gore design results in a configuration in which the design constraints are met by establishing the proper number of gores the outer edge positioning the outer edge intersection angle and the gore root geometry. The final result is a deployable reflector that packages very small while allowing for self deployment.

There are a number of considerations for determining the gore shape. Shape of the gore root. The root of the gore see is determined by two things making the gore narrow at the desired fold location and making the edges of the gore perpendicular to the point of the fold so that the gore tends to bend in the desired direction.

Outer edge location. The position of the outer edges of the gore is determined by several factors the desired height of the folded gore above the hub plane and the total height of the stowed reflector.

Outer edge tangency intersection angle. The angle that the gore intersects the outer diameter is coupled with the final achievable stowed diameter. This is because the tightly concentrated bend in the outer connecting strip determines the relative indexing of the gores which are then wrapped around the center hub. This angle can be seen in as the edge intersection angle.

As shown in an outer flexible band connects the odd numbered gores and provides rigidity to the deployed dish. The even numbered gores are shorter than the odd gores by at least the width of the flexible band. The even gores are connected to each other by an inner flexible band that passes through a slot in the odd gores. The flexible band initially passes under an odd gore as viewed from the top and passes through the odd gore slot connect to the next even numbered gore. The dish must be cut into an even number of gores. As each gore wraps around the hub in going from a deployed to a stowed configuration the interconnecting flexible edge strip begins to make a Z fold. In order to facilitate the wrapping down to the proper diameter the angle of intersection between the gore and the outer edge must be set carefully as it controls the nesting distance of the gores. This nesting is shown in . Although it is only shown for one of the outer edge strips the others follow the same constraints with the connecting strip passing through the hole in the gores as shown.

As the deployed structure is stowed the gores rotate into a vertical orientation and wrap around the central hub. The stages of this stowing are shown in giving both top A and oblique B views.

The flexible bands shown located at the outer edges of the gores in could instead be located closer in toward the hub as for example in . This would require slots in each gore and connecting bands similar to the odd bands in . This set of bands could be used in addition to or instead of the outer connecting bands.

