---

title: Communication port and connector
abstract: A communication port and connector are described. A mobile computing device may include a hardware element, with the hardware element being communicatively coupled to a connection. The connection is communicatively coupled to a communication port, and the communication port includes a first pin and a second pin. Additionally, at least one of the first pin and the second pin is comprised of a ferromagnetic material. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838868&OS=08838868&RS=08838868
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08838868
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101217
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to the field of communication port systems. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a system for extracting diagnostic information through a communication port system.

Information is desired from host devices that are in production or that are in the market. This information is used to develop or debug the host devices. The desired information may include diagnostic information. Oftentimes diagnostic information can only be extracted from a host device after making secondary modifications to the hardware of the host. These secondary modifications may include opening the housing of the host drawing wires or connections from the main board and or soldering wires to make additional connections. Then the wires or connections are connected to a custom connector to allow for extraction of diagnostic information. Once the information is extracted the host may be diagnosed. This may be referred to as pulling out the UART. 

However due to the secondary modifications made to the hardware of the host after pulling out the UART the host may become unusable as a generic device. Additionally secondary modifications such as the soldering of wires may create an electrically noisy interface for the extraction of information and may make the host susceptible to breakage if the host is mishandled.

Thus there exists a need for a communication port and connector to reduce the costs and time spent associated with pulling out the UART of a host device. Additionally there exists a need for a communication port and connector for substantially reducing or eliminating the secondary modifications and the repercussions caused by the secondary modifications.

The present disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which various embodiments are shown. The various embodiments however may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. In the drawings like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Embodiments may be generally directed to techniques for the exchange of diagnostic information with a serial connection. For instance an apparatus may include a host device and one or more remote devices. The information may include data associated with one or more user applications and elements for the host and remote device. The serial connection may be a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or a serial connection. Embodiments may provide various advantages. For instance features such as the employment of the serial connection may provide access to testing points while reducing costs associated with diagnostic testing. Moreover such features may allow for devices e.g. the host and remote device to exchange information without having to directly connect and or solder test wires to various test connections within the host.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrases in an embodiment or in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The various elements that substantially comprise mobile computing device will now be described. For example one element the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . Another element the radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors or number of processor cores in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors and may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display . The keypad may also comprise a thumbboard.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive or touch screen color e.g. 216 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive or touch screen LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrating motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrating motor may be enabled or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrating motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port SDIO bus PCI USB an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability global position system GPS capability and or integrated 802.11x e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11a 802.11n etc. WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system or peripheral device such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system or peripheral device.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers such as speaker system an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers or radios arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm WebOS Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation message applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Message applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of message applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an email application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more message applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more message applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

As illustrated in the I O interface may be a wired communications interface . The wired communications interface may provide for the exchange of information with a device e.g. a proximate device such as a personal computer . This exchange of information may be across one or more wired connections. Examples of such connections include USB interfaces parallel interfaces and or serial interfaces. The information exchanged with such proximate devices may include but is not limited to general data and or diagnostic data pertaining to different elements of the mobile as well as application data e.g. e mail calendar entries contact information as well as other information associated with personal information management applications . In addition such information may include various application files and content e.g. audio image and or video .

Wired communications interface may include various components such as a transceiver and control logic to perform operations according to one or more communication protocols. In addition wired communication interface may include a communication port s to couple with a physical connector s .

The use of ferromagnetic material has several advantages. For instance the ferromagnetic material may allow the pin or pins to attract for example magnetic covers for substantially covering the port and or pins. The ferromagnetic material may also allow for orientation of parts of a protective case that provides protection for sensitive parts of a connector. The ferromagnetic material may further allow a convenient way to couple together various parts of a complex connector. Although some embodiments are described using ferromagnetic material it may be appreciated that the ferromagnetic material can be replaced with any conductive material to form a conductive point in reasonably close proximity to a primary connector e.g. USB . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In particular illustrates an example serial connection between PC and one or more elements of mobile computing device . As described above with reference to and the elements of mobile computing device are communicatively coupled to interconnection medium . Thus to obtain diagnostic information from the elements of mobile computing device the PC is communicatively coupled to serial connection cable . The serial connection cable and or PC may support different communication protocols such as for example USB parallel or serial protocols. As described above with reference to a connector may be implemented to couple with a first pin second pin and or a USB port of wired communications interface . As described above with reference to wired communications interface may include various components such as a transceiver and control logic to perform operations according to one or more communication protocols. As such wired communication interface may be communicatively coupled with one or more elements through interconnection medium .

More specifically the serial connection between PC and communication port may include a connector communicatively coupled to cable . As illustrated in the connector may comprise for example a first conductor and or a second conductor . The first and second conductors may be substantially coupled to the first pin and or second pin to transfer information e.g. data and control directives etc. between the mobile computing device and PC . The first pin may be used to transmit information from the PC to an element on the mobile computing device . The second pin may be used to receive data from mobile computing device . In addition to the pair of conductors a third conductor may be coupled to for example the USB port . Third conductor may be coupled to ground through USB port or micro USB port . Additionally third conductor may be implemented as a USB or micro USB conductor for USB communications and coupling with a USB port or micro USB port . However the embodiments are not limited in this manner.

In the embodiments the serial connection s created between the PC and elements of mobile computing device may be implemented in accordance with USB conventions e.g. in accordance with USB version 2.0 . However embodiments may employ other USB versions e.g. USB version 1.1 etc. as well as other serial interface types. In transferring signals across the serial connection embodiments may use signal levels other than the transceiver signal levels specified by the employed interface type. For example USB specifies transceiver signal levels of 0.0 0.3 volts for a logical low level and 2.8 3.6 volts for a logical high level. However embodiments may employ different e.g. lower voltage levels for signals based on the length of the serial connection.

Also the exchange of information across the serial connection may occur across multiple pipes or logical channels between the wired communication interface and PC . Such information exchanges may be asynchronous. Also such information exchanges may occur when element s of the mobile computing device and elements of the personal computer employ different clock rates.

Moreover wired communication interface may be implemented with multiple e.g. three functional layers. As specified by USB standards such layers may include from low to high a USB bus interface layer a USB system layer and a client layer. These layers may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

The USB bus interface layer handles electrical and protocol layer interactions across the serial connection to and from PC . The USB bus interface layer may include a host controller and a serial interface engine SIE . The host controller manages data transfers between the host and USB devices. Further the host controller provides an integrated root hub providing attachment points to serial connection. The SIE serializes data to be transmitted across the cable and connector . Also the SIE deserializes data received from serial connection or cable and connector . PC may also include similar SIE features.

The USB system layer in conjunction with the host controller of USB bus interface module performs translation between the client layer s view of data transfers and the USB transactions across the serial connection. The USB system layer also manages USB resources such as bandwidth and bus power. The USB system layer may include a host controller driver HCD a USB driver USBD and host software.

Within connection host module the client layer exchanges information with the USB system layer. Also the client layer exchanges information with elements or any hardware element .

In embodiments the USB bus interface layer the USB system layer and the client layer may provide further or alternative features. Also embodiments may employ approaches employing greater or fewer layers as well as non layered approaches.

As described above embodiments may communicate across various types of wireless links such as data networking links personal area networking PAN links and or links provided by cellular systems.

Examples of data networking links include wireless local area network WLAN links such as IEEE 802.11 WiFi links. Further examples include wireless metropolitan area WMAN links such as IEEE 802.16 WIMAX links. Examples of PAN links include ad hoc proximity network links such as Bluetooth links. The embodiments however are not limited to these examples.

Exemplary cellular systems include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Digital Advanced Mobile Phone Service IS 136 TDMA Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS cellular radiotelephone systems compliant with the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP and so forth. However the embodiments are not limited to these examples. For instance radio module may additionally or alternatively communicate across non cellular communications links.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using a machine readable medium or article which may store an instruction or a set of instructions that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The machine readable medium or article may include for example any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit for example memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD a tape a cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code encrypted code and the like implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language.

Further although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

