---

title: Method, system and architecture for delivering messages in a network to automatically increase a signal-to-noise ratio of user interests
abstract: The present invention pertains to a method for delivering messages in a social network to increase a signal-to-noise ratio for the recipients of messages, characterized in that a process mechanism comprises of a diffusion process and a selection process combined through an adaptive process, in which:


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08676909&OS=08676909&RS=08676909
owner: Semiocast
number: 08676909
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20100615
---
The invention relates to a method for delivering messages in a social network that automatically increases a signal to noise ratio correlated to user interests and to a system as well as to an architecture to implement such a method.

The invention field is the telecommunication area and more particularly message routing and data processing that adjust its internal parameters such as its routing tables throughput flow . . . in response to the content metadata of transiting messages and user feedbacks. The invention can also be applied to recommendation systems.

The present invention relates to information processing for large or massive information networks such as the Internet and mobile networks. These networks have considerably eased interpersonal communication and exchange of information entities between users. Nowadays individuals access and receive a huge amount of information generated by other users leading to an information overload problem.

The messages that are involved here flow through electronic messages whether these are electronic mail GSM short messages messages posted on Internet websites blogs or forums instant messages and other means of electronic communication. Messages are explicitly addressed to recipients as is the case with electronic mail instant messaging and GSM text and multimedia messages or published and made visible to a community or to everybody.

A new form of communication in computer networking emerged with the rise of social networks. With social networks such as FACEBOOK.COM LINKEDIN.COM TWITTER.COM or FRIENDFEED.COM users can send messages that are delivered to all the other users reciprocally or univocally depending on the network identified as their friends or connections . The friendship relations constitute a social graph that connects users of social networks. The flow of messages distributed in a social graph is usually called the feed the live feed the timeline or the social timeline hereafter live feed of the user or of the user s friends. A method to generate such a sequence is disclosed in the patent application published as WO 2007 076150.

On social networks a user typically performs actions such as installing an application annotating a picture or a video leaving a comment changing information on their profile or their online r sum or any other operation. These actions are described as an automatically generated message in plain English or in another natural language. The message is then enqueued in the live feed of the user i.e. memorized in a list of messages and made visible to their connected friends . A user can also typically post a free form message that answers a question such as What are you doing or What are you working on or What s on your mind or any other similar question and this message is also enqueued in their live feed . Sometimes the message is constrained and must start by the name or pseudo of the user. Sometimes the message must include a verb the user can select in a list of pre defined verbs such as in PLURK.COM network.

Such live feeds aggregate a huge amount of messages and information and it is difficult for individual users to read all the messages emanating from their friends or connections . Besides most messages are of little interest to individual users because they relate to actions they have no interest in or because the author of the message mentions something that does not interest all the recipients. Messages are often publicly available and yet the total amount of messages is such that it is difficult for users to access messages that may interest them from people outside their circle of friends .

Then the general problem is how to increase the signal to noise ratio of messages received by each user communicating in an open network where the signal to noise ratio perceived by each user is correlated to the density of interesting messages a user can find in view of the received messages such as mentioned topics authors mentioned users . . . even if the user interests evolve over time.

The signal to noise ratio when defined as the ratio of interesting information or messages Nsignal by uninteresting unwanted or superfluous information or messages Nnoise can be increased by increasing Nsignal and or decreasing Nnoise.

A solution to improve the signal to noise ratio by is to classify messages and to designate spaces or channels based on a topic or a common interest for messages to be published and exchanged. Users of systems based on this classification solution only read and write in channels that cover their interests. Systems based on this idea include instant messaging rooms or channels including those created within social networks such as groups rooms web based forums and newsgroups where topics are organized hierarchically. Such a solution increases the ratio by increasing Nsignal and decreasing Nnoise in designated spaces or channels.

All the embodiments of such delivery systems based on forums have several important limitations. Users must select the appropriate forum or forums to post their messages which is no easy task since forums do not exactly match the users interests and topics of messages as disclosed in Human Factors in Computing Systems CHI 91 Conference Proceedings pages 63 70 ACM Press 1991. Besides users must manually subscribe or visit regularly the most appropriate forums which they must manually select. Eventually users only visit the forums for the few topics they are passionate about to avoid the information overload generated by messages coming from too many forums.

Another solution to improve the signal to noise ratio is to tag or annotate messages with metadata which can be a keyword a Boolean value or any other information. Users explicitly associate metadata to each message and the metadata is used to filter the incoming messages for other users and to search for interesting messages. Such a solution increases the ratio by decreasing Nnoise by filtering unwanted messages and by increasing Nsignal by allowing users to search for interesting messages. Systems based on this solution include collaborative spam filtering systems such as VIPUL S RAZOR rating systems tagging systems and collaborative filtering systems such as TAPESTRY cf. Communications of the ACM 35 61 70 1992. Several users also annotate free form messages with conventional syntaxes grouped under the name of microformats and nanoformats as can be observed on social networks such as TWITTER.COM.

In all the embodiments of such annotation based systems delivery systems based on annotations have three important limitations. Messages must be manually annotated which requires an important human effort and time and this can only be applied in a situation where a small proportion of users who are ready to spend the time to annotate messages can do so to the benefit of the other users. This requires that messages are distributed to many users in such a way that each message will be annotated by at least one user. Secondly messages must be annotated before they are distributed to users and therefore annotation by some users to the benefit of other users is not suitable to situations where messages are delivered at once and in real time to all recipients as is the case with instant messaging. Finally annotation is limited by the variety of vocabulary and of conceptualization among users.

Another solution to improve the signal to noise ratio is to provide simple rules to filter messages. Such a solution increases the ratio by decreasing Nnoise by filtering unwanted messages based on rules. For example a social network such as FACEBOOK.COM allows its users to select the relative amount of messages based on their nature. A user can decide to receive more group messages than picture messages or only wall messages.

Document of patent WO 9307566 describes a similar system where users can specify routing and selection criteria for incoming messages and remotely update these criteria.

Filtering and delivery systems based on user profiles or user defined criteria such as the system described in application WO 2009 065052 are a subset of rule based filtering and delivery systems.

In most of their embodiments rule based filtering and delivery systems require that users manually define rules or parameters of the rules or criteria. Some rule based filtering systems can suggest rules based on over the shoulder observations of the user s behavior but those require a feedback from the user that may be difficult to obtain in a delivery system. Some rule based systems such as the one described in application WO 2009 065052 can automatically improve the filtering and the targeting of messages by updating the rules or the user profile from explicit user actions such as clicks on advertisement URLs.

In all their embodiments delivery systems using rule based filtering have two important limitations. Rules are static until updated or validated by explicit user actions. Besides efficient rules are difficult to design in a dynamic context when little information about messages can be known in advance. For example manually defined static rules based on message content or metadata would inefficiently filter messages in a multicast or broadcast communication system or when messages are coming from unknown users. Indeed rules of a rule based filtering system must explicitly or implicitly cover all possible messages.

Another solution to improve the signal to noise ratio in a delivery system is to use user feedback and aggregate it with other users feedbacks. Such a solution increases the ratio by increasing Nsignal by delivering recommended messages. This is used in adaptive recommendation systems such as the one described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 013 238 or the one on websites such as AMAZON.COM.

The recommendation systems are based on a set of information entities that can be recommended products sold on a given website or websites that can be visited . Users select items in this set for example by purchasing a product visiting a web page or any other action and the recommendation system establishes a profile for each user which is then compared with the profiles of other users. Comparison and aggregation of the profiles allow the recommendation system to recommend items to users.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 269 590 teaches the ability of a social network user to edit their basic profile by modifying the user defined criteria such as but not limited to age gender and interests. This user modification capability affects the social timeline which is directly dependent on the user defined criteria.

In all the embodiments of recommendation systems delivery systems using adaptive recommendation systems have two significant limitations. For recommendations to make sense items that are promoted or recommended must receive a significant number of selections performed by users. As a consequence the set of items being delivered must be significantly smaller than the number of selections performed by users. In most cases this set grows slowly and those systems cannot be applied to a flow of short lived messages. Besides like annotation recommendation requires that few users perform selections for example by buying a product or visiting a web page before the items can be recommended to other users. As a consequence recommendation systems cannot be applied to individual messages in the context of instant messaging where messages are received by all recipients synchronously.

Another solution to improve the signal to noise ratio in a delivery system is the use of user feedback that is aggregated at a group level. This is typically what is done in adaptive collaborative filtering systems such as the one described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 867 799. In all their embodiments delivery systems using adaptive collaborative filtering have two significant limitations. First users must belong to a group or community and this membership must be initially declared. This limitation is shared with forum based delivery systems as described above. Second for the filtering to work a sufficient number of users in each group must provide feedback for each distributed messages. This limitation is shared with annotation based delivery systems as described above.

Neural network based routing U.S. Pat. No. 5 577 028 describes an adaptive routing system for use in a multimedia integrated network. Common aspect with the current invention includes the realization to adaptively route messages information according to some criteria. However the goal sought and the method are very different.

The technique described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 577 028 seeks to optimally distribute packets of information based upon some criteria. This involves computing some parameters so that the system behaves optimally. The current invention does not seek to deliver packets of information in an optimal fashion as along an optimal route but aims to deliver messages so that the signal to noise ratio perceived by users receiving the messages is increased.

Moreover one of the specificities of the invention described in said patent is the use of neural networks in the routing nodes. The current invention does not depend on the use of neural networks in routing nodes.

Another solution to improve the signal to noise ratio is the individual manual redistribution of messages. Such a solution increases the ratio by increasing Nsignal by delivering more interesting messages. Users decide to resend a message that they like to other users. This typically happens in electronic mail forwarding and on social networks such as TWITTER.COM retweeting . However this method is far from being optimal. Manual redistribution has three significant limitations. First it increases the amount of traffic. Secondly it usually generates more noise especially when messages are received several times. This happens in social networks where users cannot easily specify the set of recipients of the redistributed messages and broadcast the message to all their friends and in any situation where users incorrectly believe that the recipients might be interested in the re distributed message as can be observed in electronic mail systems cf chain letters . Finally it is slow as it requires human effort. As a consequence when information is delivered it may be outdated.

Systems that seek to optimally distribute packets of information have the following limitations. Determining the correct values of the parameters needed to perform optimal delivery is very time and resource consuming. Moreover the function to be optimized cannot always be formulated in such a way that is it usable.

Another solution to improve the signal to noise ratio is presented in patent application published as US 2005 0171954 A1 entitled Selective electronic messaging within an online social network for spam detection which describes a method apparatus and system that are directed towards communicating a message within a social network based in part on user defined criteria. The described system is an extension of simple rules filtering systems described above and as such mostly increases the signal to noise ratio by decreasing Nnoise. This system includes a selection process that locally filters spam messages with user defined criteria. However unlike other spam filtering systems the described system does not include an adaptive process filtering criteria are manually updated by the social network user.

Most importantly the described system can also theoretically increase the signal to noise ratio by increasing Nsignal. Indeed users send messages by first manually providing addressing criteria such as a degree of separation or a more complex search query such as female members of a dating activity that are between a particular age range and identified income range 0067 . The system then provides a list of matching recipients and users manually select who they want to send their messages to.

However in the context of modern social networks this solution does not significantly increase Nsignal and it can even increase Nnoise. Users must define a set of addressing criteria that matches potentially interested recipients. Since selection is to be performed manually the main difficulty is to define a set of criteria to get a manageable list of potential recipients to select from. Indeed modern social networks can be extremely large hundreds of millions of users and generic search queries or user definable criteria can match a very large number of potentially interested recipients. If users send their messages to too many recipients they might increase Nnoise by reaching users who are not interested. If the embodiment restricts the number of potential recipients users might eventually define criteria that are so restrictive that this system does not really increase Nsignal when compared to traditional messaging systems in social networks.

More generally this solution supposes that users can explicitly define addressing criteria that will increase the signal to noise ratio. Besides it only applies to social network messaging where sender users explicitly declare the list of recipients and not to social network messaging as found on LINKEDIN.COM TWITTER.COM or FACEBOOK.COM groups and fan pages where users broadcast messages to an implicit set of recipients shall they be their friends their contacts their followers or the subscribers of lists or groups they are members of.

The present invention aims to overcome the drawbacks and limitations of the prior art by improving the signal to noise ratio in the context of multicast communication where many messages that transit can be considered as noise by recipients when compared to other messages that also transit.

The objective is then to automatically deliver messages in a way that yields a greater robust to changing interests signal to noise ratio for each individual recipient in systems where users can send and receive unicast and multicast messages and where messages are emitted by a significant proportion of users.

To reach this objective the present invention takes into account that social networks are considered as a means of communication and as a source of information. However as said systems rely on the concept of subscription followers friends etc. . . . they tend to have a structure similar to communities they also tend to be relatively static in their structure and make it very difficult or impossible to access information outside one s declared community or friends or contacts . The information transits primarily among people inside a community. A key aspect of the present approach is to provide an automatic tool for distributing finding and filtering information in order to overcome the rigidity of social networks and forums alike which are based on the concept of friendship and on classifications of topics.

The invention is based on optimizing the overall estimated interest of received messages by combining a controlled diffusion of messages through distributed and interconnected machines and or processing units to a set of potentially interested recipients chosen on a basis of features extracted from messages and a selection process on each recipient end based on correlating features of the messages and the recipient profile. This approach is dynamic since changing and new features are taken into consideration over time.

More specifically the object of the invention is a method for delivering messages of the type above presented to increase the signal to noise ratio for the recipients of messages wherein a process mechanism comprises a diffusion process and a selection process combined through an adaptive process in which 

By increasing an estimate of interest for each received message and selecting i.e. decreasing the total number of received messages the signal to noise ratio increases since it can be represented by the ratio of the sum of the estimates of interest for received messages by the total number of the messages effectively received see definition .

The present invention is also related to a system able to implement the method for delivering messages as above defined.

Such a system comprises two types of addressable network nodes diffusion feature nodes and user nodes. Messages are diffused through routing graphs that link sender user nodes feature nodes and potential feature nodes to potential recipient user nodes on which messages are filtered.

The routing graphs are dynamically adapted to involve updated features nodes and new feature nodes created from message profiles extracted from newly transmitted messages with a pre process tool.

The system may be increased or diminished by adding or removing a routing graph or changing the user selection function.

Furthermore the present invention presents the main advantages deriving from the aforementioned combination of the adaptive tools.

First the nodes can be distributed on distant units and the delivery system easily scales making it possible and easy to process a huge flow of messages.

Second the adaptive property of the graphs that connect user nodes decreases by a magnitude the computation cost of message selection according to identified interests of users. As a result the invention makes it possible to deliver instant messages between users that are not connected with a declared or implied social graph in any situation where the number of users and the rate of messages is significant.

Furthermore as the system determines the user profiles one can outline malicious behaviors such as spammers. Also as the system prevents the diffusion to all users spamming is difficult to achieve.

Moreover the system can automatically identify the interests of users. A representation of these interests can be extracted and exploited to deliver precisely targeted advertising messages or to reach users with specific interests.

Finally as the system generates over time user profiles dynamically these may be used for outlining trends correlations . . . which can possibly be exploited commercially.

The invention also relates to an architecture for delivering messages comprising means to access to the afore described system as interfaced with other platforms and external information sources in a general telecommunication system.

To clarify the vocabulary and determine its extent in connection with the invention in the context known by a person skilled in the art the following definitions and implementations are specified 

Features e.g. language topic user date etc. and feature values language in French English Spanish etc. for a given feature are extracted from a message and addressed to a feature node with an automatic process. An extraction process can happen at different stages when the message is being sent by the sender when it transits in different features nodes of the different graphs or when it is transmitted at the possible receiver user node before being actually delivered to the user.

Each value of each feature can be represented by an addressable network entity called a feature node.

The graphs are diffusion networks based on said nodes. Any routing system mails IP packets etc. constitutes in a whole a network that connects each node as servers MTAs and MUAs for e mails IP routers in case of IP packets routing such a network is called graph .

Users can send two kinds of messages private messages to one or several recipients they select beforehand and public messages that are delivered to recipients determined by the system. Public messages can additionally be addressed to one or several recipients designated by the sender.

Messages include metadata. Metadata consists in context based information for example describing where the message is sent from when it was sent what the user was doing and information extracted from the message with the computer tool mentioned above. Metadata are added to the message at creation time or when the message transits through the system. Metadata covers but are not limited to what is commonly known as message headers and message annotations.

Message metadata values refers to the features values composing message metadata. The set of message metadata values constitute the message profile. These feature values are used in the diffusion process for the routing and in the selection function at the receiver user node.

When a public message is sent from the sender user node it is dispatched to the diffusion graphs according to the available feature values in the metadata of the message. If required a connection is established from the user node of the sender to these feature nodes. If feature nodes do not exist they are spawned.

When a feature node receives a public message its internal state is updated with information included in the message. A propagation function based on this internal state and the feature values of the message computes a subset of the set of other nodes this node is connected to. The message is then forwarded to this subset.

When the sent message is private if required a connection is established from the user node of the sender to the user node of the recipients and the message is forwarded to these nodes only.

A node of a graph establishes a bi directional connection to another node sends and receives messages through a connection and closes an established connection. A node may contain processing units software or hardware and has an internal state. Nodes according to the invention are based on the notion of clients servers for processes connected by TCP IP sockets Mail Transfer Agents or MTAs and Mail User Agents or MUAs or Erlang OTP processes as described in INAP 96 the 9th Exhibition and Symposium on Industrial Applications of Prolog pages 16 18 1996. Such nodes can also be construed as being attached to a virtual machine on a cloud.

According to the invention nodes can be created and destroyed as needed. For example each node can be an Erlang OTP process and distributed on several Erlang OTP virtual machines. They can be created by the node local manager and destroyed as needed. Nodes can also be UNIX processes distributed on different servers and can be created by the UNIX fork function via a manager or a synchronization mechanism and can be destroyed by the UNIX exit function self destruction or killed by the UNIX kill function.

A route is the path followed by a message in the graphs. It consists of the list of nodes in which a message transits. A single message may follow several routes thus the message may arrive at the user node several times. The route begins at the sender user node and ends at a recipient user node. Routes result from the succession of these local diffusion processes.

At each user node the transmitted message is processed by a selection function that is maximized to determine whether the message should be transmitted to the receiver according to the invention based on the user and receiver profiles and on the message features.

For each user the signal to noise ratio is an increasing function of the sum of the user interest estimates in the received messages and a decreasing function of the total number of the received messages i.e. a ratio of these quantities.

The feature values and additional information are used to update the profile of the sender user using an update function. For any feature information extracted from the message the update function modifies the profile of the user accordingly.

The users profiles are regularly updated and as a result connections between user nodes and between user nodes and feature nodes can be pruned. Nodes with no connection can be pruned as well. In the end this results in changing the outcomes for the possible routes for a message in the future.

The recipients can provide feedback on a given message. This feedback is processed to update the profile of the user and is propagated backwards to the nodes related to the message including the user node of the sender. Eventually feedback information is delivered to user nodes that update the profile of the users accordingly.

Each user is represented by an addressable network entity called a user node. User nodes can be feature nodes if users are one of the selection features. Each user node comprises the messages emitted and delivered to this user and the profile of the user.

Each user is associated with a profile which is part of the internal state of their user node. According to the invention the profile is a set of information on the user on its activity in regards to specific features. The exact representation used for the representing the information depends on the type of the information for example estimation for the topic jogging confidence in the estimation . Other type of information can be represented as a binary value for example user Joe is blacklisted user joe blacklist true . . . .

When a user is registered an initial profile is constructed from information the user may or may not provide such as birthdate location possession of a blog other users he may know on the system etc.

The system is also interfaced to external information sources and such as news websites online reference sites and directly to users via appropriate API web interfaces and API mobile interfaces .

Thus the system is accessible via a web server for networks and API interfaces and for the other interfaces as mobile phones.

A user can transmit messages via networks or directly via the API or with a mobile or a software client editor. Messages transit through servers .

The general diagram of outlines the main processes of the system the diffusion selection and adaptive processes.

In the illustrated example two graphs are implemented a topics graph and a social graph measuring the affinities between users. Users and access the system through the interface .

Each message from a user is collected by a user node . The message is first pre processed in a pre process phase implemented by a pre process tool composed of modules PP . . . PPn. In this example the language and the topic identification are achieved at this stage.

For the first feature a computer tool extracts feature values from the message in the pre process module PP to generate a list of pairs for each considered language with a statistical method.

The pre processing modules PP . . . PPn use information from a user profile through connection and enrich the message with metadata. In the illustrated example the pre processing tool determined that the message is related to topics T and T and mentions user . The message is then diffused through the topic graph via topic nodes and related to topics T and T respectively and through the social graph via user node related to user .

Following the topic graph the message reaches the topic node and is then delivered to user node related to user . The message is then processed by the corresponding dynamic selection function . The selection function uses features extracted from metadata of the message and information from user profiles and of users and respectively obtained from connections and . Depending on the outcome of the selection function message is or not as illustrated in this example forwarded to user .

The message also reaches the user node of user through several routes in the social graph . Indeed advantageously a message can be received several times by a given recipient user node. The message is processed by the dynamic selection function and in this example it is forwarded to user enriched with metadata as message .

The user nodes accumulate incoming messages and determine whether to distribute or not a message to the user by computing the selection function based on the profile of the recipient user or information from the profile of the sender user included in the message metadata feature values and any information that can be extracted from the message metadata for instance 

The maximization of the selection function is then dynamically achieved by depending on the triplet features features values extracted from the message and its metadata and complementary information that weights the feature values. For example representing the information the user likes messages dealing with the topic jogging with an estimation of 7.5 on a scale of 10 with a confidence of 1.3 as jogging 7.5 1.3.

An advantageous embodiment of such a dynamic selection function is disclosed hereinafter in reference to .

If is the users space and the topics space a selection features space is defined by Us Ts. Two types of selection vectors are implemented 

In the embodiment illustrated in the features used by the selection function of the receiver are users and topics.

For example Alice is the sender and Bob is the potential receiver . Bob s profile is characterized by the weighted features as u alice 0.8 jogging 0.1 and Alice message is focused on fishing with weighted feature as v alice 1.0 fishing 1.0 .

If the message language is not in the languages list understood by Bob in Bob s profile then the message is ignored as a preliminary compatibility phase step 35 .

Otherwise step 36 the u. v product having a value p in the range 0 1 and being a reference value of such an inner product for instance r 0.5 

In this example p 0.8 so Bob will receive Alice s message enriched with metadata as message with a probability of 80 .

In more elaborated versions the selection function takes into account other parameters the incoming flux for each feature as dynamically determined and feature values and metadata included in any instance of the message.

In the general diagram of the adaptive process continuously adjusts parameters of the diffusion process such as the annotation of the connections between nodes and parameters of the selection process such as the thresholds used by the selection functions on the user nodes.

The adaptive process also updates information in the user profiles and when messages are sent and received by the respective user nodes and whether the message is forwarded to the user or not through connections . These modifications result from the user activity and induce changes in the message filtering and selection for the user and indirectly the message diffusion process.

If the message is delivered to the user and or user the sender user is notified and its profile is updated accordingly. This allows the sender to know who did receive the message. The profiles and of the recipient users and are also updated.

The profile update is dispatched to the diffusion graphs and . The graphs use information from the user profile to distribute the message and modify their own topology.

The user profile that includes information for example about the user regarding the languages they understand their relationships with other users their activity and the set of topics they are interested in is also updated when the user declares to speak understand a language when they provide feedback as actions such as rating or answering a given message subscribing to answers to a message rating or annotating another user including blacklisting them or declaring them as a friend.

The profile is also updated from information extracted from other sources such as an existing social graph texts written by the user messages sent on other networks and so on.

On other respects a user profile can also include information on the frequency of messages sent on the time periods when the user sends messages on the interfaces the user uses to send and read messages on the time between the reception of a message and the emission of a reply on the interactions with other users on the data extracted from other networks on the number of discussions the user subscribed to on the number of topics extracted from the message sent or from the replies and so on. This information is used by the selection function.

If the message is identified as being in a given language the information that the user sent a message in this language can be added to the user s profile. Likewise if the message mentions a particular topic an interest for the topic is added to the user s profile.

In another embodiment nodes are Unix processes and the connection between nodes are embodied by TCP or Unix sockets.

In another embodiment the internal state of feature nodes includes a weight value for each user nodes they are connected with. When a user rates a received message positively the internal state of the feature nodes that represent the feature values mentioned in the message is updated to increase the weight of the link between these nodes and the user s node. This can raise the probability for the user to receive messages in regards to this feature.

In another embodiment when a user rates a message positively the profile of the sender of the message is augmented with information that describes that the recipient user is a fan possibly increasing the probability of receiving more messages from that user.

In another embodiment when a user rates a message positively or negatively the adaptive selection function of their node is modified accordingly.

In another embodiment the selection function only delivers messages the first time they are received and never puts messages on hold.

In another embodiment the selection function computes a quality value of the message based on the recipient s profile and the feature values extracted from the message and delivers the message based on a random variable multiplied by the quality value.

The system can be preferably but not only implemented with the Erlang OTP framework and nodes are Erlang processes spread among several computers. A user node or a feature node can also be composed of one or more Erlang processes. As permitted in particular by Erlang OTP technology the system includes a very large number of nodes.

Messages can be sent through several interfaces a mobile interface with a dedicated client application for example on a PDA or a smart phone an e mail another social network the system is interfaced with.

Using the recipient profile and information extracted from the message the selection function filters messages written in a language that the recipient user has never used or declared to understand.

