---

title: Systems and methods for estimating the effects of a request to change power usage
abstract: Systems and methods for estimating the effects of a request to change power usage are described. Device data about one or more devices may be received. User behavior data about past and anticipated user behavior may be received. Effects of a request to change power usage on a power grid may be estimated using the device data and the user behavior data. Whether to send the request to change power usage may be determined based on the estimated effects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08406933&OS=08406933&RS=08406933
owner: Control4 Corporation
number: 08406933
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100817
---
This application is related to and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 234 963 filed Aug. 18 2009 for Systems and Methods for Estimating the Effects of a Request to Change Power Usage with inventors Paul E. Nagel and William B. West.

The present disclosure relates generally to electricity generation. More specifically the present disclosure relates to estimating the effects of a request to change power usage.

In recent years the price of electronic devices has decreased dramatically. In addition the types of electronic components that can be purchased have continued to increase. For example DVD players large screen TVs multi carousel CD and DVD players MP3 players video game consoles and similar consumer electronic items have become more widely available while continuing to drop in price.

The decreasing prices and increasing types of electronic components have packed today s homes and businesses with modern conveniences. As more of these components are sold the average household power consumption also increases. Typical homes and businesses now include more power consuming devices than ever before. With the increasing demands for power at times power consumption may approach the limit on the capacity to generate power. If the consumption gets too close to the upper limit on power generation capacity power outages and or disruptions such as blackouts and brownouts may occur.

To avoid such power disruptions a region may build infrastructure to increase power generation. However increasing power generation for a geographic region is often very expensive. Thus it may be more cost effective to determine ways to decrease consumption at certain times. As such there is a need for improved systems and methods for decreasing power consumption while limiting the adverse effects as much as possible.

A method for estimating the effects of a request to change power usage is disclosed. Device data about one or more devices is received from a home area network. User behavior data about the devices is received. Effects on a power grid of a request to change power usage are estimated using the device data and the user behavior data. It is determined whether to send the request to change power usage based on the estimated effects.

In one configuration power data about power generation in the power grid may be received. Effects on the power grid of a request to change power usage may be estimated using the device data the user behavior data and the power data. Customer preferences about the devices may also be received. Effects on the power grid of a request to change power usage may be estimated using the device data the user behavior data and the customer preferences.

The user behavior data may include one or more of the following past device responses to requests to change power usage typical behavior of the devices as a function of time suggestions for reduction in power consumption typical loads of the devices typical loads of the house in which the devices reside and anticipated power consumption of the devices.

The request to change power usage may not be sent based on a determination that the request to change power usage should not be sent. Alternatively the request to change power usage may be sent using one or more of the following Z Wave by Zensys ZigBee Smart Energy ZigBee SE ZigBee Home Automation ZigBee HA Global System for Mobile communications GSM any of the HomePlug standards Broadband over Power Lines BPL and Power Line Communication PLC .

The device data may include one or more of the following device type geographic location power consumption current status and anticipated power consumption. The power data may include one or more of the following an amount of power being generated in the power grid sources of the power being generated sources of stored power current weather conditions and the forecasted weather conditions.

The request to change power usage may be a request for reduced power consumption of one or more devices. The request to change power usage may be sent to the home area network controller for the home area network controller to send to one or more devices. Furthermore the request to change power usage may be sent to a utility meter that sends it to the home area network controller that sends it to the devices.

In one configuration the device data and the power data may be stored. Third parties may be allowed to access this stored device data and stored power data. Reports may be generated based on the device data in order to assess the health of the devices.

In one configuration estimating the effects of the request to change power usage may include estimating the change in revenue associated with the request to change power usage. Estimating the effects of the request to change power usage may also include estimating the change in power consumption associated with the request to change power usage.

An apparatus for estimating the effects of a request to change power usage is also disclosed. The apparatus includes a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. Executable instructions are stored in the memory. The instructions are executable to receive device data about one or more devices from a home area network controller. The instructions are also executable to receive user behavior data about the devices. The instructions are also executable to estimate effects of a request to change power usage on a power grid using the device data and the user behavior data. The instructions are also executable to determine whether to send the request to change power usage based on the estimated effects.

A computer readable medium is also disclosed. The computer readable medium includes instructions. The instructions are executable for receiving device data about one or more devices from a home area network controller. The instructions are also executable for receiving user behavior data about the devices. The instructions are also executable for estimating effects of a request to change power usage on a power grid using the device data and the user behavior data. The instructions are also executable for determining whether to send the request to change power usage based on the estimated effects.

A method for managing a device based on a request to change power usage is also disclosed. A request to change power usage is received. It is determined how to adjust management of the device based on the request to change power usage device data and customer preferences. The management of the device is adjusted based on the determining. Information about the adjustment is stored.

The device data may include one or more of the following device type geographic location power consumption and current status. The request to change power usage may be a request for reduced power consumption by the device. The request to change power usage may be received using one or more of the following Z Wave by Zensys ZigBee Smart Energy ZigBee SE ZigBee Home Automation ZigBee HA Global System for Mobile communications GSM any of the HomePlug standards Broadband over Power Lines BPL and Power Line Communication PLC . The adjusting may include one or more of the following taking no action changing a setting on the device or turning the device off based on the device data.

An apparatus for managing a device based on a request to change power usage is also disclosed. The apparatus includes a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. Executable instructions are stored in the memory. The instructions are executable to receive a request to change power usage. The instructions are also executable to determine how to adjust management of the device based on the request to change power usage device data and customer preferences. The instructions are also executable to adjust the management of the device based on the determining. The instructions are also executable to store information about the adjustment.

A computer readable medium is also disclosed. The computer readable medium includes instructions. The instructions are executable for receiving a request to change power usage. The instructions are also executable for determining how to adjust management of the device based on the request to change power usage device data and customer preferences. The instructions are also executable for adjusting the management of the device based on the determining. The instructions are also executable for storing information about the adjustment.

The terms power and energy may be used interchangeably herein. It is to be understood that power generally refers to a rate of consumption and anything measured in watts while energy generally refers to a unit of work measured in kWh and similar units of energy. However the term power may be used herein to refer to both. Therefore the term power as used herein may refer to a rate of transfer use or generation of electrical energy as well as electrical energy itself.

As the demand for power approaches the capacity to generate power it may be desirable to either increase generation capacity reduce consumption or some combination of the two. Since increasing generation capacity may be prohibitively expensive an increasing amount of focus is now on intelligently reducing consumption without affecting lifestyle. One way this problem has been approached has been to use a directive model where a power generation facility sends a directive to a home to perform a very specific action. For example the thermostat in a home may receive a message from a power facility requesting that the setting on the home s thermostat be raised by four degrees on a hot day in order to save power. The thermostat may then follow this directive and change the programmed setting. However identical messages received by different thermostats may produce inconsistent power savings. In other words these directives may produce different results in different homes e.g. a home with shade may warm up slower on a hot day than a home with no shade. When the directive has been accomplished raising the inside temperature by four degrees then the program may proceed as usual. Therefore the exact duration and amount of reduction in power consumption may be unknown before a directive is actually sent in this model.

Another way to intelligently reduce power consumption may be an objective model. In this model a power generation facility may send an objective to a home that is more general e.g. reduce power consumption. This means that rather than simply sending a specific task as in the directive model the objective model allows some type of decision based logic in the home to determine how to accomplish the objective. For example if the objective is to reduce power consumption by the heating and cooling system by five percent over the next hour a Home Area Network controller within the home may determine and implement appropriate settings for the heating and cooling system. This objective approach may provide for better power reduction with limited lifestyle adjustments. In other words the systems and methods disclosed herein may provide benefits to both a utility provider by allowing for the avoidance of power consumption during peak demand as well as the utility recipient by saving money with minimal discomfort and inconvenience.

In the home may have received a directive to raise the set point of the heating and cooling system to 78 degrees Fahrenheit. In the illustrated configuration the outside temperature exceeds 90 degrees. Therefore the directive may be complied with very quickly. In other words the heating and cooling system may turn OFF for only one half of an hour thus resulting in minimal power reduction. In such a configuration a power provider may have estimated more reduction in power consumption from the directive and therefore be required to send more directives to achieve the desired power reduction it requires. This may be inefficient and costly.

In however the home may have received an objective to reduce power consumption by 20 percent from 2 00 pm to 6 00 pm. A Home Area Network controller may use decision logic based on a user s preferences and choose to cycle the heating and cooling system in order to comply with the objective. In the illustrated configuration the heating and cooling system may turn ON for a short period then OFF for a longer period during the specified time period. This may result in slightly higher temperatures during this period but also vastly reduced power consumption compared to the directive model in . Therefore the objective model may provide better power reduction with minimal lifestyle discomfort because it allows decision logic within the home to determine and implement the best way to achieve desired power reduction based on gathered data e.g. user preferences current home settings etc.

The improved power reduction resulting from using the objective model may have several advantages. First it may allow a utility provider such as a power company to more accurately avoid peak demand. As will be discussed below utility providers may be required to keep a certain percentage of power generation capacity available for critical services e.g. hospitals emergency responders etc. Thus at peak periods like midday the utility provider may be able to send objectives to reduce power consumption in order to avoid peak demand and avoid having to buy more power generation from other providers.

The objective model may also benefit power consumers by saving them money through efficient reduction in power consumption. For example a power company may determine the rates charged for power by taking the peak consumption period over a defined time period e.g. the highest day s consumption in the previous month. Therefore the higher a consumer s peak the higher the rate charged for the entire month. Under this billing structure a consumer may wish to limit their peak periods of power consumption in order to reduce their monthly rate. Likewise a power company may charge a higher flat rate during peak hours than during non peak hours. Under this billing structure a consumer may wish to limit consumption during the period with the highest rate. Likewise a power company may charge a flat rate that changes every hour. Under this billing structure a consumer may wish to limit their power consumption when they are informed of a high rate for the upcoming hour. Thus efficient reduction of power consumption may lower a consumer s cost of power under any rate structure e.g. tiered pricing flat rate hourly variable etc.

Despite the advantages of the objective model it is still not ideal. More specifically the exact power reduction in response to an objective may not be known because the various states configurations and preferences of the homes to which the objective is sent are not known. For example if a cooling system in a home was not running an objective to reduce heating and cooling consumption would not result in any reduction. Likewise a home may not comply with this type of request. It may be inefficient and time consuming for a power facility to achieve a specific load reduction by trial and error. Therefore it may be desirable to estimate the effects of a request from a power company or utility system to decrease power consumption a demand response before the request is sent.

A HAN may be a group of controlled devices operating in the same environment. Examples of devices in a HAN include without limitation a thermostat a light switch a washer a dryer a furnace an air conditioner a pool controller etc. The HAN may communicate with the utility system through a network . The network may represent the Internet one or more wide area networks WANs one or more local area networks LANs etc. Additionally the network may represent communication using power transmission lines. The network may be implemented using wired and or wireless communication technologies and may use any available protocols to pass data between the utility system and the HAN . These protocols may include but are not limited to hypertext transfer protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP secure file transfer protocol SFTP Z Wave by Zensys ZigBee Smart Energy ZigBee SE ZigBee Home Automation ZigBee HA Global System for Mobile communications GSM any of the HomePlug standards Broadband over Power Lines BPL Power Line Communication PLC proprietary serial protocols etc.

The threshold may define a power generation buffer that should be maintained. The buffer may represent line loss in delivering the power as well as capacity that should be kept available for critical services e.g. hospitals emergency responders etc. In other words the utility system may be required to maintain the gap between the power generation and the threshold . In order to maintain this buffer the power consumption may not increase above the threshold . As mentioned earlier a utility system may increase power generation which can be very costly and time delayed or decrease power consumption . One way of reducing power consumption may be to send a demand response.

In one configuration the utility system may monitor the power consumption in the system to identify trends of increased consumption that may indicate that power consumption will exceed the threshold . When a trend is identified the utility system may send a demand response that causes the power consumption to stay below the threshold . In other words a demand response may prevent the power consumption that exceeds the threshold and instead keep power consumption below the threshold . The present systems and methods may enable utility systems to estimate the effects of a demand response in order to preserve the buffer between the threshold and the power generation .

Many configurations of networks are possible. For example in one configuration the power system communicates with third parties utility meters and HANs using WANs with spread spectrum designed to cover a large geographic area. Likewise the communication between the utility meters and the HANs and within the HANs may use home networks using infrared or serial technology designed for short range cost effective communication. Many different configurations of networks may be possible e.g. the WANs may use 802.11 technology and the home networks may use GSM technology. Any configuration capable of transmitting data between the various illustrated devices may be used.

The HAN controller may be a device capable of communicating with the power system utility meters or HANs using the ZigBee protocol. The controller may control the various devices in the HANs according to user preferences and received demand responses and may store various data about the devices and the HANs as a whole. Each controller may control one or more HANs . Alternatively there may be more than one controller for one HAN . Additionally the utility meter may communicate directly with a HAN without a HAN controller .

The system may also include a HAN database that may store data from the controllers and or devices in the system for use in the power management console . The collected data may represent current states and information about devices. For example the database may receive data directly from one or more devices or from a controller that has already collected data from one or more devices . Additionally one or more third parties may access the data stored on the database through the power management console . Alternatively the third parties may access the database directly.

In addition to collected data the HAN database may store data that has been learned by the HAN controllers from the behavior of the HAN devices . This data may include without limitation house load coefficients and set point convergence factors for heating and cooling thermostat cycling performance anticipated power consumption recommended power saving tips etc.

The controller may be connected to the devices via wireless or wired connections. In the present configuration the controller may be connected to the devices via an Ethernet connection a WiFi connection a ZigBee connection or a combination of the three. The controller may be capable of communicating via these network connections i.e. Ethernet WiFi ZigBee or other type of connections.

The devices in the present configuration may include lighting devices temperature control devices security system devices audio devices landscape devices video devices control devices intercom system devices and a power management module . Lighting devices may include light switches dimmers window blinds etc. Temperature control devices may include thermostats fans fireplaces and the like. Security system devices may include security cameras motion detectors door sensors window sensors gates or other security devices. Audio devices may include AM FM radio receivers XM radio receivers CD players MP3 players cassette tape players and other devices capable of producing an audio signal. Landscape devices may include sprinkler system devices drip system devices and other landscape related devices. Video devices may include televisions monitors projectors and other devices capable of producing a video signal. The control devices may include touch screens keypads remote controls and or other control devices capable of communicating with and or controlling another device . Intercom system devices may include intercom microphones intercom related video devices and other devices typically associated with an intercom system. The power management module may include the actual control mechanism for the other devices . In other words the power management module may include the control functions that implement functionality for complying with requests for reduced power consumption.

Various modules in the console may collect data that may be used to model the effects of a demand response. This data is described herein as being collected by distinct modules although it is understood that the types of data collected by each module described may overlap with other data. The data described may be stored in the database or in any other suitable storage inside or outside of the power system . Additionally the modules described herein may be distinct as described and shown in or may be combined in a different configuration.

A real time grid data collection module may collect current data about the amount of power being generated including a distribution of how that power is being generated and how that power is being allocated at a given time. This module may also collect data as to where there may be a source of stored power such as a third party power source and where there may be a source of renewable power. In other words this module may generally determine the location and amount of power being generated and store this data in the database . An environmental data collection module may obtain the historical current and forecasted temperatures and or weather patterns for a geographic region e.g. a zip code and store this data in the database . This environmental data may be useful in modeling the effects of a demand response because heating or cooling may represent a large proportion of a HAN s overall power consumption particularly in extreme weather conditions.

A HAN data collection module may obtain the current status state configuration user preferences and power usage of the each device within one or more HANs and store the data in the database . For example the module may collect the following types of data from a thermostat that controls a heating and cooling system 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from an appliance controller that controls a dryer 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from a lighting controller that controls a set of lights 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from an audio visual controller that controls an audio visual system 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from a pool controller that controls a pool 

While the configuration described includes a thermostat a dryer a lighting controller an audio visual controller and a pool controller it should be appreciated that data may be gathered by the HAN data collection module for any type of device within a HAN . Also it should be appreciated that some or all of the data collected by the HAN data collection module may first be collected by a HAN controller and sent to the power management console rather than being collected or determined first by the HAN data collection module .

Additionally the power management console may include a utility historical data module . This module may collect a HAN profile of power consumption possibly in terms of average kWh per month. The module may also collect the load shed available for each device within the HAN as well as historical demand response modes and participation by various devices and HANs . For example the module may collect ON OFF states from a thermostat that controls a heating and cooling system e.g. last month the main floor heating and cooling system was ON 12 hours per day and the second floor heating and cooling system was ON 14 hours per day .

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from an appliance controller that controls a dryer 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from a light controller that controls a set of lights 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from an audio visual controller that controls an audio visual system 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from a pool controller that controls a pool 

The power management console may also include a HAN analysis module . This module may determine the performance health of HAN devices determine analytics for the HAN such as whether the homeowner is on vacation determine anticipated power consumption and predicted effect of a demand response. This module may also determine the overall neighborhood or region power consumption the specific device power consumption in nearby HANs and use this information to identify anomalies within a specific HAN a neighborhood or region. Additionally the module may also determine opportunities to reduce power consumption. Alternatively these determinations may be made in the HAN controller and sent to the console . For example the module may determine or collect the following types of data from a thermostat that controls a heating and cooling system 

Likewise the module may determine or collect the following types of data from an appliance controller that controls a dryer 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from a light controller that controls a set of lights 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from an audio visual controller that controls an audio visual system 

Likewise the module may collect the following types of data from a pool controller that controls a pool 

The power management console may also include a real time monitor module . This module may create reports related to performance of the power system . For example the real time monitor module may use the data from the real time grid data collection module among other modules to represent the power generation and power consumption in a power grid. These reports may be filtered by device attribute device type or device group and may be displayed to a user of the console via a user interface .

A prediction module may predict the generation and consumption in a power grid in the future and suggest possible optimizations. For example this may include predicting the generation capacity of one or more sources of power e.g. wind solar nuclear gas coal and predict the consumption over a time frame. This may include accounting for carbon credits and carbon offsets. These predictions may be compiled and presented in a usable form to a user via the user interface .

A scenario generation module may determine and present various demand response scenarios to a user via a user interface . This may include determining based on the data collected by the various modules the reduction in consumption if a particular demand response was sent. For example a user may want to estimate the effects of sending a demand response to 10 000 HANs to reduce their heating and cooling power consumption by five percent. Based on the data collected the console may determine the actual load reduction that would result if such a demand response were sent. Alternatively a user may want to estimate the effects of an emergency demand response so that the power system may be better able to efficiently deal with an actual emergency. Alternatively still a user may want to estimate the effects of a demand response for the purpose of provisioning a load on a grid to another branch of the grid so that maintenance or repairs may be performed. Alternatively still a user and a power system may desire to maximize their revenue by selling their surplus power generation capacity to another region. For example a user may estimate the effects of a demand response in order to determine that some reduction in consumption could be achieved after which the power system may reallocate the surplus generation capacity for a higher price to another region. All of these scenarios may be presented to a user via the user interface .

A demand response module may be responsible for actually issuing demand responses or alerts and alarms from the power system . These demand responses may be sent on demand by a user or scheduled at a defined interval for peak event management. It should be noted that the demand response may not actually be sent even though the scenarios for it may be generated.

The user interface may be capable of receiving input from a user and presenting information to the user of the console . For example the user interface may present graphs charts text pictures videos etc. about the generation and consumption of power on a power grid. The generation and consumption may be broken down by types of generation and types of devices respectively. Additionally the user interface may present regional information about a power grid on a map e.g. areas affected by a power outage or consumption. For example the user interface may show areas that are affected by a power outage using maps available on the Internet e.g. Google Maps Mapquest Yahoo Maps etc. .

The user interface may also output a consumption window that displays one or more power consumption waveforms as functions of time. For example the consumption window may display a waveform for every type of device consuming power from the power system e.g. an HVAC waveform a hot water heater waveform a pool and spa waveform a freezer waveform a dryer waveform a lights waveform and an other waveform . The consumption window may also display the percentage that the consumption for each type of device represents of the total power consumption. In the configuration shown consumption by HVAC devices represents 60 of total consumption consumption by hot water heaters represents 12 of total consumption etc.

The user interface may also output a scenario grid that displays the estimated effects of one or more demand responses. The grid may display the total rate at which power is presently being consumed by each device type. In the configuration shown the HVAC devices are consuming 74.4 MW the hot water heaters are consuming 14.9 MW the pools and spas are consuming 6.2 MW etc. The grid may also display one or more scenarios for reduced power consumption where a scenario may be represented by a column in the grid . In the configuration shown the max conserve scenario would reduce the consumption by HVAC devices from 74.4 MW to 68 MW the consumption by hot water heaters from 14.9 MW to 11 MW the consumption by pools and spas from 6.2 MW to 4 MW etc. Likewise the significant conserve scenario would reduce the consumption by HVAC devices from 74.4 MW to 71 MW the consumption by hot water heaters from 14.9 MW to 13 MW the consumption by pools and spas from 6.2 MW to 5 MW etc. Likewise the modest conserve scenario would reduce the consumption by HVAC devices from 74.4 MW to 73 MW the consumption by hot water heaters from 14.9 MW to 14 MW the consumption by pools and spas from 6.2 MW to 5.5 MW etc. There may be more or less than the three scenarios shown in the grid . Additionally the grid may display the financial impact not shown of each scenario . For example the grid may display the total change in income for the power system based on the price charged per kWh and the change in consumption for each scenario . This may enable the power system to use the console to maximize revenue.

The user interface may also provide one or more buttons that send a demand response to various HANs . For example there may be a 10 MW button which may prompt the power management console to send a demand response tailored based on the data collected to reduce power consumption by 10 MW. Additionally there may be scenario buttons that may prompt the power management console to send a demand response tailored to mirror the corresponding scenario generated. In other words the max conserve scenario button may prompt the console to send a demand response to achieve the reduction in consumption reflected in the max conserve scenario . There may also be an emergency load shed button that may prompt the console to send a demand response that overrides any device preferences and sheds some or all of a device load. For example if critical services such as emergency responders and hospitals do not have enough power this type of demand response may be sent.

The console may first receive data about devices the power grid environmental conditions etc. This data may include the types of devices consuming power the location of devices consuming power the amount and time that power reduction is needed the price of power in different regions of the power grid weather conditions user preferences in devices consuming power anticipated power consumption in the future available stored power the historical effect of demand responses and the type and amount of current power generation . It should be noted that many other factors may be used by the console . The console may then generate scenarios based on the data . The scenarios may include max conserve scenario where the demand response reduces total consumption by 20 a reduce pool consumption by 5 scenario an emergency mandatory conserve scenario a significant conserve scenario where the demand response reduces total consumption by 10 a modest conserve scenario where the demand response reduces total consumption by 5 and a price conserve scenario . The price conserve scenario may be a demand response that informs devices that the price of power will be raised to a certain level for a given time period and then allows the devices to determine whether to reduce consumption based on user preferences or user input.

After the scenarios have been generated the console may choose a scenario and then send a demand response based on the chosen scenario . The determination of the specific scenario to select may be made by the console by a user at the console or through a combination of automated selections by the console with specific points for user input. The scenario may be selected based on repairs needed to the power grid maximizing revenue etc. Alternatively no scenario may be chosen or sent . In this case the console merely models the scenarios but does not send a corresponding demand response.

The controller may also include a user interface that allows a user to view and change HAN preferences configurations and power consumption. The user interface may display data in the form of charts graphs waveforms etc. and may receive input from users in a variety of ways. For example the user interface may display a customizable power consumption report showing the consumption within the HAN for a defined period of time the cost associated with that power consumption and recommendations for reducing the cost in the future.

The controller may include control functions for one or more devices . Control functions may include instructions that control the operation of devices . For example a control function may change the set point on a thermostat change the setting on a light controller to ON change the heat setting on a dryer etc. It should be appreciated that these control functions may not be the only means of controlling the devices on the HAN . In other words a user may also change the set point on a thermostat using the thermostat or turn the lights ON using the light controller in addition to using the HAN controller .

The HAN controller may also include a data collection module that collects data about the HAN generally and each device in the HAN . This data may overlap with the data collected by the power management console . Specifically some or all of the data collected by the HAN data collection module may be collected by the HAN controller first and then sent to the power management console . In other words the data collection module may obtain the current status state configuration and power usage of the each device and store the data in the controller database . The data collection module may also collect data about the historical power consumption of one or more devices that may be used to assess the health of the device e.g. if the dryer is consuming 5 more power than last week the lint filter may need cleaning. All of this data may then be sent to the HAN data collection module in the power management console to estimate the effects of a demand response.

The HAN controller may also include HAN preferences that may be defined by a user of the HAN . These HAN preferences may be groups of settings or a profile which affect the entire HAN or part of the HAN . For example a user might have a vacation setting where the heating and cooling system is turned OFF the lights are set to OFF the pool temperature set point is raised etc. Likewise there may be one or more conservation settings where the inside temperature set point is raised or lowered depending on the outside temperature the lights are set to 80 and the pool temperature set point is lowered. Likewise there may be a night time setting where the inside temperature set point is raised or lowered depending on the outside temperature the outside lights are set to OFF and the pool temperature set point is lowered. These HAN preferences may also specify general preferences as to power consumption. For example a user may specify that they are willing to pay for their needs at any cost so the power consumption should not be reduced in any device unless a mandatory emergency demand response is received. Additionally a user could specify that all demand responses should be fully complied with or that demand responses relating to certain device types should be complied with. The HAN preferences may also specify that certain actions should be taken when the price of power exceeds a predefined threshold. For example the inside temperature should be set to 75 degrees or higher during summer months when the price of power exceeds 0.15 per kWh. As before these HAN preferences may be collected or determined by the controller and may also be sent to the HAN data collection module in the power management console to estimate the effects of a demand response.

The HAN controller may also include a controller database that includes device records that include device data and learned behavior data about the devices . The device data may include data about the current and past status of the devices . For example device data may include without limitation the device type current status state of the device current power consumption device preferences and past customer behavior for the device . The past customer behavior may be data relating to the actual response of the device to past demand responses e.g. whether the device overrides demand responses and under what circumstances or price of power. The learned behavior data may be data that has been collected and further processed by the cognitive learning module . In other words the learned behavior module may be data that is derived from device data or other observation of the device . For example the learned behavior data may include without limitation load coefficients for a home the typical device load set point convergence factors for devices such as an HVAC system anticipated power consumption in the future and time behaviors e.g. the time of day during which the device typically enters various states. The house load coefficients may be data relating to the base load of the home e.g. the power consumption of the home independent of the device . Both the device data and the learned behavior data may be sent to the power management console and used to estimate the effects of a demand response.

Additionally still the controller may display and change the user preferences for one or more HAN devices using the configuration buttons . For example in response to a maximum conserve demand response the user may choose to change the set point on the thermostat to 82 degrees turn the dryer OFF and turn the hot water heater OFF. Thus when a maximum conserve demand response is received the controller or the device itself may use the device preferences to control the device in a manner that complies with the demand response. This may include changing the demand response from an objective to a directive. Device preferences may be created for many different types of demand responses and HAN devices .

The device may also include control functions . Control functions may include instructions that control the operation of the device . For example a control function may change the set point on a thermostat change the setting on a light controller to ON or change the heat setting on a dryer. It should be appreciated that these control functions may not be the only means of controlling the device . In other words HAN controller may also change the set point on a thermostat or turn the lights ON in addition to using the control functions on the device itself.

The computing device electronic device is shown with a processor and memory . The processor may control the operation of the computing device electronic device and may be embodied as a microprocessor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP or other device known in the art. The processor typically performs logical and arithmetic operations based on program instructions stored within the memory . The instructions in the memory may be executable to implement the methods described herein.

The computing device electronic device may also include one or more communication interfaces and or network interfaces for communicating with other electronic devices. The communication interface s and the network interface s may be based on wired communication technology and or wireless communication technology such as ZigBee.

The computing device electronic device may also include one or more input devices and one or more output devices . The input devices and output devices may facilitate user input user output. Other components may also be provided as part of the computing device electronic device .

Data and instructions may be stored in the memory . The processor may load and execute instructions from the instructions in memory to implement various functions. Executing the instructions may involve the use of the data that is stored in the memory . The instructions are executable to implement one or more of the processes or configurations shown herein and the data may include one or more of the various pieces of data described herein.

The memory may be any electronic component capable of storing electronic information. The memory may be embodied as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices in RAM on board memory included with the processor EPROM memory EEPROM memory an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit registers and so forth including combinations thereof.

As used herein the term determining encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore determining can include calculating computing processing deriving investigating looking up e.g. looking up in a table a database or another data structure ascertaining and the like. Also determining can include receiving e.g. receiving information accessing e.g. accessing data in a memory and the like. Also determining can include resolving selecting choosing establishing and the like.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on. 

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array signal FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in any form of storage medium that is known in the art. Some examples of storage media that may be used include RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM and so forth. A software module may comprise a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across multiple storage media. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to a processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

The methods disclosed herein comprise one or more steps or actions for achieving the described method. The method steps and or actions may be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of steps or actions is required for proper operation of the method that is being described the order and or use of specific steps and or actions may be modified without departing from the scope of the claims.

The functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions on a computer readable medium. A computer readable medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation a computer readable medium may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers.

Software or instructions may also be transmitted over a transmission medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of transmission medium.

Functions such as executing processing performing running determining notifying sending receiving storing requesting and or other functions may include performing the function using a web service. Web services may include software systems designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a computer network such as the Internet. Web services may include various protocols and standards that may be used to exchange data between applications or systems. For example the web services may include messaging specifications security specifications reliable messaging specifications transaction specifications metadata specifications XML specifications management specifications and or business process specifications. Commonly used specifications like SOAP WSDL XML and or other specifications may be used.

It is to be understood that the claims are not limited to the precise configuration and components illustrated above. Various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the systems methods and apparatus described herein without departing from the scope of the claims.

