---

title: Method of electrogenically controlling pump molecules
abstract: Activation of electrogenic pump molecules can be realized by a dynamic entrainment procedure which includes two steps: synchronization of individual pump molecules to work at the same pumping pace, and gradual modulation of the synchronization frequency. Na/K pump molecules were used as an example in a physiological operating mode by applying the concept of an electronic synchrotron to the biological system. It was shown that individual Na/K pump molecules can be synchronized by a well designed oscillating electric field. The synchronized pump currents show separated inward and outward pump currents and a magnitude ratio of 3:2 reflecting stoichiometric number of the pump molecules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08073549&OS=08073549&RS=08073549
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08073549
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100419
---
This application is continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 231 030 entitled A Method of Electrogenically Controlling Pump Molecules filed Aug. 28 2008 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference which is a continuation of International Application Serial Number PCT US2007 05200 filed Feb. 28 2007 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 767 045 entitled Electrogenic Pump Molecule Control filed Feb. 28 2006 the contents of which applications are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. NIGM 50785 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and under Grant No. PHY0515787 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to the control of ion transporters in a cell membrane. Specifically this invention relates to the non invasive control of a plurality of carrier mediated ion transporters ion exchangers.

In living systems there are many ion transporters such as electrogenic pump molecules and carrier mediated ion exchangers in cell membranes. Functions of these ion transporters are to maintain the specific ionic concentrations in the cell as well as the ionic concentration gradients across the cell membrane. These ionic concentration gradients result in an electrical potential across the cell membrane. The ionic concentration gradients and the membrane potential constitute electrochemical potential across the cell membrane which is critical to many cell functions.

This electrochemical potential is the source for the generation and propagation of the action potential for all of the excitable cells such as nerve cells skeletal muscle fibers and cardiac cells. This electrochemical potential also provides energy to many other membrane active transporters such as the Na H exchangers which influence pH value. The ionic concentration gradients also play a significant role in controlling the cell volume and homeostasis. Therefore maintaining the ionic concentration gradients and the membrane potential is critical to living cells.

The Na K pump or Na K ATPase is one of the most prevalent house keeping proteins and is found within the membrane of almost every cell. It famously extrudes three Na ions out of the cell via the exchange of two K ions and consumption of one ATP in each pumping cycle in order to maintain the ionic concentration gradients and the membrane potential. The energy requirements of the Na K pumps can constitute 20 80 of the cell s resting metabolic rate depending on the extent of electrical activity of the tissue.

Because stable ionic concentration gradients and membrane potential differences maintained by the Na K pumps are critical to cell functions and survivability any functional reduction of the pump molecules will inevitably affect cell functions and may result in cell necrosis and death. There are many situations where the functions of Na K pumps can be significantly affected. One category of diseases includes those in which there is a lack of ATP molecules. Because a large amount of ATP molecules are used by Na K pumps lack of ATP molecules may fail to fuel the pump molecules. Many diseases are in this category such as cardiac diseases and brain ischemia. Due to lack of blood and oxygen ATP molecules cannot be effectively generated in the mitochondria to fuel the Na K pumps. As a result K ions cannot be sufficiently pumped into the cell and Na ions are accumulated in the cell. The reduced ionic concentration gradients result in membrane potential depolarization. In cardiomyocytes the ionic concentration gradient reduction and the membrane resting potential depolarization cause many symptoms such as murmurs irregular beating and finally heart failure.

Another example of a lack of ATP molecules failing to fuel the Na K pump is electrical injury. An intensive electrical shock may generate pore or pore like structures in a cell membrane known as electroporation resulting in leakage of ions and many other biomolecules including ATP from the cell. Due to the lack of ATP molecules to fuel the pump molecules the ionic concentration gradient cannot be quickly restored. Consequently the electrically injured cells may be swollen ruptured and eventually die.

A second category of diseases in which the Na K pumps are significantly affected are those in which the density of the Na K pump molecules in the cell membrane is significantly reduced. In these diseases the residual pump molecules are not competent to maintain the ionic concentration gradients and membrane potential. A short list of these diseases includes myotonic dystrophy diabetes cystic fibrosis central nervous system disorder McArdle disease and various aging diseases such as Alzheimer s disease and Huntington s disease. For example with regard to Huntington s Disease it has been found that the density of Na K pump molecules in the brain neurons of those suffering from Huntington s disease may decline to as low as 30 .

Finally in some diseases the natural mechanisms controlling the functions of Na K pumps are affected to the point of malfunction of the pump molecules. For example dysfunction of the pump molecules in the kidneys peripheral nerves blood vessels and muscle fibers in diabetes patients are often due to both metabolic deficiencies and control mechanism defects. Similarly one of the mechanisms underlying long term hypertension is related to the level of endogenous ouabain like compound EOLC in the body which is involved in the control of the Na K pumps. In order to reinstate normal cell functions and reduce the symptoms of disease effective and efficient control or restoration of the Na K pump functions has become a central target for treatment.

Many pump molecules and ion exchangers are sensitive to changes in membrane potential due to the transportation of ions across the cell membrane. The voltage dependence of Na K pump current has been widely studied from nerve cells Rakowski et al 1989 oocytes Rakowski et al. 1991 cardiac muscles Nakao and Gadsby 1989 Gadsby and Nakao 1989 and skeletal muscle fibers Chen and Wu 2002 . The results have shown that Na K pumps have a sigmoid shaped I V curve which exhibits a shallow slope saturation behavior and a negative slope when membrane potential is depolarized Lauger and Apell 1986 De Weer et al. 1988 and Rakowski et al. 1997 . These results indicate that the sensitivity of the pump molecules to membrane potential is not particularly high and that the pump current has an upper limit. At normal physiological condition a membrane potential change by natural mechanisms can adjust the pump functions to maintain the concentration gradients and membrane potential. However for many diseases and emergency situations the natural mechanisms fail to exert a membrane potential change to adjust pump function and membrane potential depolarization results.

In the past few decades significant efforts have been made to electrically activate the Na K pumps. The pioneering work by Tsong and Teissie studied the Na and K pumping modes separately Teissie and Tsong 1980 Serpersu and Tsong 1983 in red blood cells. They found that a weak oscillating electric field 20V cm at 1 MHz can activate the Na pumping mode but failed to facilitate the K pumping mode. Similarly at 1 KHz the field can activate the K pumping mode but not the Na pumping mode.

Both sinusoidal electric field and random telegraph fluctuating RTF electric field have been used as the oscillating field Xie et al 1994 . A resonance frequency theory was later developed Markin et al 1992 to interpret these results. Intrinsic oscillating frequencies may exist for the two pumping modes. When the applied field oscillating frequency resonates with the intrinsic frequency electric energy will be transduced to the pump molecules to activate the corresponding pumping mode Tsong and Astumian 1986 1987 Markin et. al. 1992 Robertson and Astumian 1991 .

Liu et al. 1990 and Xie et al. 1994 studied the electrical activation of the two transports separately either Na pumping mode or K pumping mode not both together . The activation of the whole pumping cycle was not shown. Based on their results of three orders of difference in the optimal frequencies for the two transports it is impossible to use one electric field to simultaneously activate both Na and K transports and therefore the whole pumping cycle. In contrast the present invention activates the whole pumping cycle to accelerate the pumping rate.

Second in their studies Liu et al. 1990 Xie et al. 1994 an electric field with a discrete frequency was employed and it was found that there are two separate frequencies that are optimal for either the Na or the K pumping modes. In contrast the present invention employs an electric field with a sweeping or modulating frequency which is significantly different from a discrete frequency.

In addition Liu et al. 1990 and Xie et al 1994 a field strength of 20 V cm was used for red blood cells. Based on the 5 m diameter of the red blood cells the field induced membrane potential is about 5 mV. This field induced membrane potential is significantly smaller than the field induced membrane potential used in the synchronization modulation method where 30 mV or higher is needed. The significant difference in the field strength is because underlying mechanisms involved in the two techniques are fundamentally different.

The underlying mechanism of the resonance frequency window theory considers the existence of intrinsic frequency windows. When the frequency of an applied oscillating electric recognizes or matches the protein s intrinsic frequency resonance occurs and the pump molecules can maximally absorb energy from the electric field. In contrast the underlying mechanism of the present invention is that the pump s turnover rate is entrainable by a specially designed oscillating electric field. The concept of intrinsic frequencies is not included in the synchronization modulation method. When a well designed oscillating electric field with a frequency comparable to the pump s physiological turnover rate is applied to the cells the Na extrusion and K influx is eventually trapped into positive and negative half cycles respectively. All the individual pumps operate at the same pumping pace as the oscillating electric field i.e. the pumping rate is synchronized to the field frequency. By carefully maintaining the pump synchronization and gradually increasing or decreasing the field frequency the pumping rate can be progressively re synchronized to new frequencies up to a defined value.

The outputs of the resonance frequency window theory also differ dramatically from those of the synchronization modulation method. In the resonance frequency window theory when responding to an electric field with an optimal frequency the corresponding pumping mode will be activated. The pumping mode cannot be deactivated or controlled to a defined value. In contrast the synchronization modulation method allows not only the activation or deactivation of the pumping rate but also can control the pumping mode to a defined pumping rate. The resonance frequency window theory is only a simple phenomenon of energy absorption while the synchronization modulation method is a procedure of dynamic entrainment of the pump molecules.

A second theory has been proposed for the activation of pump molecules. This theory is known as the excitation stimulation theory. Clausen in an excellent review Clausen T. 2003 Na K pump regulation and skeletal muscle contractility 83 1269 1324 has summarized the underlying mechanisms involved in excitation stimulation induced activation of the Na K pumps. Activation of the Na K pumps elicited by excitation stimulation is most likely to reflect a rapid but slowly reversible increase in the affinity of the Na K pump for intracellular Na ions possibly elicited by depolarization during the action potentials. This would allow for a more efficient clearance of Na from the cytoplasm and K from the extracellular phase. Another possible mechanism is due to the excitation induced leakage of Na and K ions which increase the availability of ions to bind with the pump molecules Clausen T. and Nielsen O. B. 1998 Rapid activation for the Na K pump mechanisms and functional significance Bio. Skr. Dan. Vid. Selsk. 49 153 158 .

Clausen et al showed that excitation stimulation can activate the Na K pump functions in skeletal muscles 1998 and 2003 where the stimulation opens the Na and K channels and therefore increases the ion availability and their binding affinity to the pumps. This is actually the natural mechanism in adjusting the pumping functions to maintain the physiological ionic concentration and the membrane potential. No electrical energy is involved in the pump molecules. Excitation stimulation is successful in the natural physiological situation but not in the extraordinary situation such as in disease or injury.

The electric field used in the excitation stimulation method neither directly influences the pump molecules nor delivers electrical energy to the pumps. Because the channel currents are much larger than the pump currents skeletal muscles still undergo a net loss of K ions and a net gain of Na ions Sejersted et al. 2000 Kiernan et al 2004 Moldovan and Krarup 2006 . The increased intra neuronal Na ions may lead to reversal of the Na Ca exchanger Tatsumi and Katayama 1995 and trigger the destruction of peripheral axons Smith and Hall 2001 Waxman 2005 . Therefore in spite of its activation effect the excitation stimulation method has negative functional consequences. In contrast the synchronization modulation method directly affects the pump molecules by precisely providing electric energy to the Na and K transports in the positive and negative half cycles respectively.

Other models to explain the underlying mechanisms have been proposed including a Brownian motion model Astumian 1997 Tsong 2002 2003 and a recent adiabatic pump model Astumian 2003 . However most of these studies are mainly hypothesis or theoretical analysis. As discussed above the synchronization modulation method is significantly different from both the resonance frequency windows theory and the excitation stimulation method in many aspects including the basic concept and underlying mechanisms the approach and the output.

To date there is no practical technique available to non invasively and effectively activate the pumping cycle or accelerate the pumping rate of the Na K pumps or other carrier mediated ion transporters. This may be due to the pump molecules not being particularly sensitive to the membrane potential as evidenced by a sigmoidal shaped I V curve. It may also be due to the difficulty in electrically increasing the pump currents by simply depolarizing the membrane potential. Thus there is needed in the art a mechanism by which to activate the entire pumping cycle both Na and K transports and accelerate or decelerate the pumping rates of the Na K pumps or other carrier mediated ion transporters.

The present invention discloses a method of controlling the entire operating pumping cycle of a plurality of carrier mediated ion transporters. Controlling the ion transporters is accomplished by synchronizing the turnover rate of the individual carrier mediated ion transporters through the application of a specially designed oscillating electric field at a frequency initially comparable to the natural turnover rate of the ion transporter. After the turnover rates of the individual ion transporters are synchronized the turnover rates are modulated by gradually adjusting the synchronization frequency in order to control their running cycle. The synchronization modulation method of the present invention can effectively control the entire pumping cycle of a plurality of ion transporters.

The method of synchronization modulation consists of two main steps the synchronization of individual ion transporters in which all of the ion transporters are forced to operate at the same pumping rate and pumping phase and the incremental modulation of the pumping rate to entrain the transporters turnover rate through either increasing or decreasing the rate.

In the synchronization step a specially designed oscillating field is applied to the plurality of ion transporters and the pumping rates of the individual ion transporters are synchronized to the oscillating electric field frequency. This synchronizing oscillating electric field has been designed in waveform magnitude and frequency based on the ion transporter s physiological parameters.

These parameters include the initial oscillating frequency must be comparable to the natural turnover rate of ion transporters the waveform can be sinusoidal various pulses or other oscillating waveforms with a square pulse waveform being preferred the waveform can be either asymmetric or symmetric with a symmetric waveform being preferred and the magnitude of the oscillating field should be restricted to a value where the field induced membrane potential falls within the physiological range.

An embodiment of the invention is a method of controlling the cycle of a plurality of carrier mediated ion transporters by applying an oscillating electric field at a predetermined synchronization frequency that is substantially equal to the ion transporters initial natural turnover rate in order to synchronize the individual ion transporters. After the individual ion transporters are synchronized the synchronization frequency is incrementally adjusted either increased or decreased to control the cycle. The ion transporters should be sensitive to membrane potential and have an ion transport step that is the rate limiting step to their respective reaction.

In this embodiment the synchronization frequency of the oscillating electric field is able to be changed through changing oscillating cycle duration by applying either continuous incremental small changes in the cycles of about 1 or less of the cycle duration or by applying large incremental changes in repeating cycles of between about 3 and about 5 of the cycle duration.

In this embodiment the maximum frequency incremental change is between half of the previous frequency and double the previous frequency. The maximum incremental change in the oscillating cycle is between about half of the previous cycle duration and double the previous cycle duration.

In addition to the turnover rate being modulated to accelerate when the synchronization frequency is gradually increased the turnover rate can also be reverse modulated when the synchronization frequency is gradually reduced.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method of controlling the cycle of a plurality of Na K pump molecules is presented. Controlling the Na K pump molecules is accomplished through the application of an oscillating electric field at a predetermined frequency that is substantially equal to the pump molecules initial turnover rate after which the synchronization frequency is incrementally adjusted to control the cycle.

In this embodiment the magnitude of the oscillating electric field is restricted to a magnitude that allows the field induced membrane potential to fall within the physiological range.

The synchronization frequency of the oscillating electric field can be changed by changing pulse duration. The pulse duration can be changed through the application of small changes in continuous consecutive pulses of less than about 1 of the pulse duration or large incremental changes in repeating pulses of between about 3 and about 5 of the pulse duration.

The maximum frequency incremental change should be between half and double the previous frequency. The maximum pulse duration change should be between half and double the previous pulse duration.

The synchronization frequency can be increased or decreased in order to modulate the turnover rate to accelerate forward modulation or decelerate reverse modulation .

In a further embodiment a method of treating a disease in a subject characterized by a deregulation in Na K pump molecule function is presented. The disease is treated through controlling the Na K pump molecules which is accomplished through the application of an oscillating electric field at a predetermined frequency that is substantially equal to the pump molecules initial turnover rate after which the synchronization frequency is incrementally adjusted to control the cycle.

Diseases that can be treated by the synchronization modulation method include for example myotonic dystrophy diabetes cystic fibrosis central nervous system disorders McArdle disease Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease hypertension brain ischemia cardiac diseases and electrical injury.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

As used herein the terms ion transporter ion pump ion exchanger and pump molecule are used interchangeably to denote the movement of ions across a plasma membrane. The movement of ions can be through active or passive transport. In addition the ion transporters can be electrogenic or non electrogenic. Na K pumps are used as an example of one type of ion transporter that can be entrained by the present invention however the invention is applicable to any ion transporter.

As used herein the term substantially equal refers to any frequency that is within the range of frequencies naturally displayed by the ion transporters natural turnover rate in the physiological state. For example the average natural turnover rate for Na K pumps ion transporters is 50 Hz however individual Na K pumps ion transporters may operate at 60 Hz or 40 Hz. The term substantially equal is meant to cover all frequencies of natural turnover rates that could be naturally displayed by the ion transporters in their physiological state. This range of frequencies for the ion transporters natural turnover rate in the physiological state is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The term step wise as used herein refers to incremental changes. The term step wise is used herein synonymously with the terms incremental change . These incremental changes can be made to the oscillating cycle duration pulse duration or the frequency. These incremental changes can be increased additive for forward modulation or decreased reduced for reverse modulation .

Many pumps or carrier mediated ion transporters such as the Na K pump move one kind of ion out of cells by exchanging for another kind of ion. Some ion exchangers such as Na K ATPase consume ATP while others do not. Ion exchangers can be electrogenic or non electrogenic. Microscopically for each electrogenic pump or ion exchanger there should be two components of the currents in each running loop an outward current representing the outward ion transport and an inward current representing the inward transport. However because of environmental differences individual ion exchangers may not have the same turnover rate and may run at random phases due to structural independence.

The ability to physically manipulate the functions of membrane proteins especially the active transporters is a pursuit that has interested and challenged many researchers. The inventor has developed a method using a specially designed oscillating electric field to effectively synchronize and control the pump functions of a plurality of pump molecules or ion transporters. The new method of synchronization modulation provides a novel approach to significantly activate ion transporters such as the Na K pumps by first synchronizing all the ion transporters and then gradually modulating their pumping rate to a defined value. The pump synchronization modulation method can be viewed as a dynamic entrainment procedure that was designed to control a plurality of ion transporters.

The inventor has used the Na K pump as an example in studying synchronization modulation of a group of carrier mediated ion transporters in a physiological operating mode by applying the concept of an electronic synchrotron to the biological system. Synchronization of the pump molecules is more complicated than the synchronization of an electronic beam. In a synchrotron the acceleration electric field can be applied specifically to the pathway of the electronic beam. Practically it is impossible to apply an electric field to specifically influence one transport without affecting the other. Any applied electric field will inevitably affect the two transports oppositely. The method of synchronization modulation developed by the inventor uses a specially designed oscillating electric field to synchronize and modulate the pumping rates of the ion transporters thus allowing effective control of the entire cycle.

The mechanism involved in the synchronization of carrier mediated ion exchangers by using the Na K pump as an example was investigated Chen W. Synchronization of carrier mediated pump molecules by an oscillating electric field Theory 112 32 10064 70 2008 . First the inventor studied the underlying mechanisms involved in the sigmoidal shaped I V curve of the pump molecules Chen W. Voltage dependence of the carrier mediated ion transport. . E Statistical nonlinear and soft matter physics February 73 2 Pt 1 021902 1 7. 2006 and found that because the pump molecule transports Na and K ions in opposite directions the two transports have reverse voltage dependence. Any membrane potential change either depolarization or hyperpolarization cannot facilitate both ion transports but rather can only facilitate one transport and inevitably hinder the other. Consequently the whole pumping cycle cannot be significantly accelerated.

At the membrane resting potential the K transport is faster than the Na transport resulting in the turnover rate of the Na K pump being mainly determined by the Na transport. When the membrane potential is depolarized it facilitates the Na transport but hinders the K transport. Because the Na transport is the rate limiting transport in the pumping loop facilitating the Na transport accelerates the pumping cycle and increases the pump currents resulting in the I V curve showing a positive slope. Up to a certain membrane potential the time course of K transport becomes comparable to that of Na transport and therefore a membrane potential depolarization can no longer increase the pumping rate. This is represented as the plateau in the pump I V curve. When the membrane potential is further depolarized the K transport becomes the rate limiting transport. Hindering the K transport will slow down the pumping cycle and decrease the pump currents showing the negative slope of the I V curve Chen W Voltage dependence of the carrier mediated ion transport. . E Statistical nonlinear and soft matter physics February 73 2 Pt 1 021902 1 7. 2006 .

In the development of the synchronization modulation method to control the pump cycle it was noted that the two ion transports do not occur simultaneously but rather occur in a sequential pattern. The pump molecule extrudes Na ions and subsequently pumps in K ions. There are two different time windows that allow treatment of the two transports separately. Application of a special oscillating electric field where the duration of the positive and negative half cycles exactly matches the time courses of the Na and K transports respectively so that the pump extrudes Na ions during the positive half cycle and then pumps in K ions in the negative half cycle has been shown to be effective. During the positive half cycle the electric field depolarizes the membrane potential thus reducing the energy barrier of the Na transport and activating the Na transport. Similarly during the negative half cycle the field hyperpolarizes the membrane potential thus reducing the K transport energy barrier and facilitating the K transport. The electric field at the two half cycles alternately facilitates the two transports and therefore significantly accelerates the pumping rate. Use of this specially designed oscillating electric field allows the Na K pump currents to significantly increase thus showing an exponential like I V curve without saturation.

However because there are many pump molecules in a cell membrane each of which has a different pumping rate and random pumping pace it is impossible to use a single oscillating electric field to match all the pumping cycles of individual pumps. In order to control the entire operating cycle of a plurality of carrier mediated ion transporters it is necessary to first synchronize all of the pumps to operate at the same pumping rate and pumping phase. Once the pumps are synchronized so that all the pumps extrude Na ions during the positive half cycles and pump in K ions during the negative half cycles both the transports are facilitated and the pumping rate is increased. In order for the two half cycles to match the two transports the field frequency has to be increased correspondingly to exactly follow the changes in the pumping rate.

The method of synchronization modulation consists of two steps. The first step is synchronization of individual pump molecules in which all of the pump molecules are forced to operate at the same pumping rate and pumping phase. For the Na K pump molecules this is defined as synchronizing the pumping rates of individual pump molecules to the oscillating frequency and extruding Na ions during the positive half cycle and then pumping in K ions during the negative half cycle. The inventor has designed the synchronization oscillating electric field in waveform magnitude and frequency based on the pump s physiological parameters. This specially designed electric field has been used to synchronize the Na K pumps so that they all extrude Na ions during the positive half cycle and then pump in K ions in the negative half cycle. The parameters of the oscillating electric field are as follows 

First the initial oscillating frequency must be comparable to the natural turnover rates of the pump molecules carrier mediated ion transporters. For the Na K pumps the natural turnover rates have been shown to be around 50 Hz. For different pumps or ion exchangers the natural turnover rate may differ significantly.

Second the waveform of the oscillating electric field can be sinusoidal form various pulses or other oscillating waveforms. Based on the theoretical analysis and experimental results a squared pulse waveform is more efficient than other waveforms.

Third the waveform of the oscillating electric field can be asymmetric so that the two half cycles match the time courses of the Na and K transports respectively. Alternatively the oscillating electric field can have a symmetric waveform showing the same duration for the two half cycles. Both the symmetric and asymmetric waveforms can be used to synchronize the pump molecules as long as the field strength is well designed. Considering biological and clinical applications to intact cells tissues and organs the symmetric waveform is preferred. For most cells which are not polarized or where the pump molecules are relatively evenly distributed in the two opposite hemispheres the symmetric oscillating electric field can effectively synchronize the pump molecules in both hemispheres.

Fourth the magnitude of the oscillating electric field should be restricted so that the field induced membrane potential falls within the physiological range. In this range the higher the magnitude of the oscillating electric field the easier the pump molecules can be synchronized. Even if the field strength is not high the electric field will tend to synchronize the pumping rate. However the pump synchronization may not be stable and the pumps may jump back and forth between synchronized and unsynchronized conditions. For the best results the electric field at the positive half cycle which depolarizes the cell membrane and facilitates the ion extrusion should block the transport that pumps cations into the cell the ion intrusion. For example it has been shown that if the field induced membrane potential alternates the membrane potential from 50 mV to 130 mV at a membrane resting potential of 90 mV the pump synchronization is very stable because the energy needed for the pump to extrude 3 Na ions in the negative half pulse exceeds the metabolic energy from a single ATP hydrolysis. Thus the Na extrusion is fully inhibited in the negative half cycle.

The upper limit of the field strength should be restricted so that the field induced membrane potential including the resting potential should be less than 200 mV in order to avoid damaging the cell membrane. The inventor has shown that the threshold of the membrane potential to electroporate the cell membrane is between 250 to 300 mV Chen W. and Lee R. C. An improved double vaseline gap voltage clamp to study electroporated skeletal muscle fibers. 66 700 709 1994 . For the above mentioned oscillating electric field 50 pulses is enough to synchronize the Na K pumps.

The patterns of the synchronized pump currents differ significantly from that of the randomly paced pumps. Microscopically current generated by each Na K pump should include two alternatively appearing components outward Na and inward K pump current. However the inward K pump current cannot be distinguished from the outward current for the randomly paced pumps. In all currently available electrical measurements only a small net outward pump current could be observed mainly responding to a positive pulse that depolarizes the membrane potential. Due to the random pumping paces the outward Na currents and inward K currents from individual pumps are combined and cancel each other out thus resulting in a small net outward current. In contrast when the pumps are synchronized all individual pumps extrude Na ions during the positive half cycle and then pump in K ions during the negative half cycle. The outward Na currents and inward K currents are separated corresponding to the positive and negative half cycles respectively.

The characteristics of the synchronized Na K pump currents include Chen W. Zhang Z. S. and Huang F. Synchronization of the Na K pumps by an oscillating electric field August 2. Epub ahead of print 2008 1 a distinguishable inward pump current that is revealed alternating with the outward current 2 a much larger magnitude of the outward pump currents as compared to the randomly paced pump currents 3 a magnitude ratio of the outward over inward pump currents that is close to 3 2 which reflects the pumps stoichiometric number 4 a pumping rate that is restricted to the field frequency and a pump current that remains unchanged regardless of an increase in the field strength because the stoichiometric numbers of the pump molecules do not change in a wide range of the membrane potentials Rakowski et al. 1989 De Weer et al. 1988 and 5 synchronized pump molecules that remain synchronized for another half cycle after removal of the field.

The second step of the synchronization modulation method is the modulation of the pumping rate. The goal of this step is to entrain the pumps turnover rate through either increasing or decreasing the rate. As long as the pump molecules are synchronized to the oscillating electric field so that the pumping rates are restricted to the field frequency a slight change in the field frequency will quickly re synchronize the pumps to the new frequency. The frequency can subsequently be changed again to increase or decrease the turnover rate. The pump molecules will remain synchronized to the oscillating electric field as long as the frequency change regardless of whether the change increases or decreases the rate is small enough. As a result the pumping rates will be progressively modulated accelerated or decelerated to a defined value. By gradually increasing or decreasing the synchronization frequency and carefully keeping all the individual pumps in synchronization with the field frequency the pumping rate can be progressively modulated to higher or lower pumping rates.

The inventor has shown that once the pump molecules are synchronized to the applied oscillating electric field a small change in the field frequency will not affect the pump synchronization. All of the pumps will remain extruding Na ions and pumping in K ions in the positive and negative half cycles respectively since the electric field at the positive half cycle always reduces the energy barrier for the Na extrusion but increases the barrier for the K influx. In a well designed waveform and magnitude the Na extrusion will be trapped in the positive half cycles and the K influx will be excluded. Similarly the K influx will be trapped into the negative half cycle. Therefore a small change in the synchronization frequency will not affect the pump synchronization status and can quickly re synchronize the pumps to the new frequency.

There are two methods to change the field oscillating frequency. The first method is continuous change of the field frequency in which each consecutive oscillating pulse has a small change in the pulse duration. If continuous change is used the changes must be made in small increments preferably of 1 or less of the pulse duration. Alternatively the frequency change can be step wise in which the change in pulse duration is made in slightly larger increments as compared to continuous change however for each change the field repeats the same frequency oscillation for a number of cycles. The inventor has discovered that a 3 5 change in the pulse duration or oscillating frequency followed by a 10 pulse repeat is able to effectively modulate the pumping rate of Na K pumps. In general the larger the frequency step change the more repeating pulses are needed to insure re synchronization of the pumps to the new frequency. Also the higher the pulse magnitude the larger the frequency step change can be used to re synchronize the pump molecules.

The inventor has shown that if the oscillating field frequency approaches either double or half of the previous frequency or the pulse duration approaches either double or half the previous duration the electric field can no longer re synchronize the pump molecules to the new frequency regardless of the pulse magnitude. It is necessary to point out that once a pump molecule is unsynchronized and returns to a random pumping rate it is difficult to resynchronize it. This is especially true when the pumping rate has been modulated far away from the natural turnover rate. Therefore it is critical to make small incremental changes in the field frequency to insure re synchronization of most of the pump molecules.

In addition to the field strength the range of the step change in the frequency modulation may depend on the kind of pump molecules or ion exchangers. For the Na K pumps the field parameters mentioned above are sufficient to resynchronize the pumps to the new frequency and therefore accelerate the pumping rates. For other pump molecules the actual frequency step change may differ however a small change is always necessary in order to modulate the ion exchangers. The time needed to modulate the turnover rate is trivial. For example modulation of the Na K pumps from 50 Hz to 500 Hz with a frequency step change of 3 and 10 repeating pulses takes less than one minute.

For each magnitude of the oscillating electric field there is a maximum pump turnover rate that can be modulated by a given field strength. For example in the Na K pumps an oscillating electric field induced membrane potential having a magnitude of 60 mV can modulate the pumping rate up to ten fold from a physiological value of 50 Hz thus reaching a turnover rate of 500 Hz. The higher the field strength the higher the pumping rate the electric field can modulate to. In order to activate the pumping rate to higher value the magnitude must be correspondingly increased.

Alternatively the pumping rate can be reverse modulated to a lower value. When the synchronization frequency is gradually decreased following the above criterion the pumps turnover rate can be gradually reduced to a defined value. Using the above parameters the pumping rate of the Na K pumps can be reduced ten fold to 5 Hz. Because the pulse duration becomes longer the time needed for the reverse modulation is longer than that needed for the forward modulation.

The pump synchronization modulation method is not restricted to any specific pump molecules. Na K pump molecules were used only as an example of the method. The synchronization modulation method in general can be used for all ion transporters especially for the ion exchangers regardless of consumption of ATP molecules. The detailed parameters of the oscillating electric field may be adjusted to effectively apply to each specific transporter. However the underlying methods remain the same the initial synchronization frequency must be comparable to the natural turnover rate of the transporters the smaller the step change in frequency modulation the less repeating pulses are needed the upper and lower limits of the frequency step change are double and half respectively and the maximal or minimal turnover rate to which the transporters can be modulated depends on the field strength.

The underlying mechanisms involved in the synchronization modulation of pump molecules or ion exchangers are design of an oscillating electric field that can alternately change the energy differences in the two ion transports examination of the effects of the electric field on the two consecutive ion transports examination of the characteristics of synchronized pump currents and examination of the possible I V curve of the synchronized pump molecules as a function of the synchronization modulation electric field. The Na K pump is used throughout as an example of a pump molecule that can be controlled by the synchronization modulation method.

In order to understand the background of the Na K pump molecules it is necessary to point out two facts. First the Na K pump extrudes 3 Na ions and then pumps in 2 K ions. The two ion transports occur sequentially in the pumping loop. Therefore there is a time window to specifically treat each ion transport. Second because the Na and K ions are moving in opposite directions the two ion transports have reverse voltage dependence. Therefore an oscillating electric field can be designed to distinguishably influence the two transports separately.

The energy differences in the two ion transports can be easily calculated. For skeletal muscle fibers the intra and extra cellular Na concentrations are about 4.5 mM and 120 mM respectively Hille 2003 . The chemical energy difference can be expressed as the equilibrium potential of 60 mV based on the Nernst equation Hille 2003 . Starting from a simple oscillating electric field a symmetric pulsed oscillating waveform alternates the membrane potential from 50 to 130 mV based on the membrane resting potential of 90 mV. Assuming that the Na extrusion falls into the negative half pulse extrusion of a single Na ion out of the cell requires 60 130 190 meV of energy. In order to extrude 3 Na ions 570 meV is needed which is higher than the membrane resting potential of 3 60 90 450 meV. Therefore the Na extrusion will be hindered during the negative half pulse. This has been termed a hindering half pulse.

If the Na extrusion falls into the positive half pulse of 50 mV the energy difference for extruding 3 Na ions is significantly reduced to 3 60 50 330 mV which is lower than that at the membrane resting potential as shown in . Consequently Na extrusion will be facilitated during this period which has been termed a facilitating half pulse.

Similarly based on the intra and extra cellular K ion concentrations of 115 and 5 mM respectively Hille 2003 the chemical potential can be expressed as the K equilibrium potential of 90 mV Hille 2003 . The energy needed to pump in 2 K ions during the positive half pulse is 2 90 50 80 meV whereas during the negative half pulse it is significantly reduced to a negative value of 2 90 130 80 meV . In comparison with the energy difference at the membrane resting potential of 2 90 90 0 meV the K influx step will be facilitated during the negative half pulse and hindered during the positive half pulse.

Applying the oscillating electric field to a group of pump molecules with different pumping rates and random pumping phases gives three possible cases 

Case 1 is depicted in in which the initial pumping rate is far higher than the field oscillating frequency d

Because the electric field always facilitates one transport and hinders the other the field effects on the two transports cannot be accumulated to affect the whole pumping rate. Therefore only the first pair of transports is affected resulting in a change in the time interval d so that the pumping rate quickly reaches a steady state. This can be seen from the experimental results using a single pulse to study the Na K pumps. The elicited pump currents show a quick response to the rising phase of the pulse.

When the pulse changes its polarity the Na extrusion may fall into a negative half pulse and the K influx into a positive half pulse which results in both transports being hindered. The total energy needed for a loop is 570 80 650 meV which allows the time interval d to increase more significantly than in the above situation where both transports fall into the same half pulse. However this situation can only happen when the pulse changes its polarity and then quickly returns to the above situation where both transports fall into the same half pulse . It has been shown that neither the Na nor K transient current represents a rate limiting step of the loop Lauger 1991 . Since neither transient current represents a rate limiting step in the loop hindering the two transports once cannot significantly alter the pumping rate.

Alternatively the Na extrusion may fall into a positive half pulse and K influx into a negative half pulse when the pulse changes its polarity which causes both transports to be facilitated. The energy needed for a loop is 330 80 250 meV which is much lower than that needed at the membrane resting potential. The time interval d is decreased. Again due to not being a rate limiting step in the loop one time facilitation in two ion transports will not significantly accelerate the pumping rate.

In summary for Case 1 because the initial pumping rate is far higher than the field oscillation frequency the field always affects the two transports oppositely thus the field effects cannot be accumulated. The pump rate quickly changes in response to the two half cycles of the oscillating electric field and continually repeats.

In this situation the phase difference t is defined as the time interval between the transport and the rising phase of the half pulse in which the transport falls. The initial phase difference is designated t. Because of the difference in the pumping rate and the oscillating electric field this phase difference will be accumulated in the succeeding half pulses.

For the first situation in which both transports alternately fall into the hindering half pulses repeatedly each half pulse will hinder the corresponding transport and therefore increase the time interval d with respect to the previous transport. As the field oscillates the time interval d becomes larger and larger. For simplicity assume that the hindering effects on both transports are very similar each half pulse increasing the time interval d by a factor of a. The time interval d will be gradually increased in the succeeding half pulses which will significantly affect the phase difference.

When the initial time interval dbetween the two transports is a little shorter than the half pulse duration T 2

When the field strength is very small so that a can be ignored and the third term eliminated the phase difference second term is accumulated up linearly due to initially d T. The electric field accelerates the phase accumulation so that the transport quickly falls into the following facilitating half pulse .

In summary for the first situation of Case 2 if the two transports initially fall into two hindering half pulses respectively the electric field forces them further out of phase with respect to the hindering pulses so that both transports fall into the following facilitating half pulses.

When the two transports fall into the facilitating half pulses alternately the second situation the field effects will be significantly different. If the pumping rate is a little higher than the field frequency or T 2t t . . . even the field strength is very small . The field facilitation accelerates this down accumulation. Again for simplicity assume that the facilitating effects on the two transports are similar and each facilitating half pulse reduces the time interval d by a factor of b. The initial time interval dwill be continuously reduced in the succeeding half pulses. The phase difference at the nhalf pulse will be 

The second and third terms have opposite signs. The second term represents the phase difference up accumulation due to initially T

Again the transport will catch the rising phase of the facilitating half pulses. In other words the two ion transports are kept within the facilitating pulses.

Where the ion transport falls into the preceding half pulse a hindering half pulse the transports will be delayed until the pulse changes its polarity to a facilitating half pulse. As a result both transports will alternately be trapped in the consecutive facilitating half pulses. Consequently all individual pumps extrude Na ions during the positive half pulses and pump in K ions during the negative half pulses thus providing evidence that the pump molecules are synchronized to the oscillating electric field.

The field induced hindering factor a and facilitating factor b are independent on the phase difference tbecause the electric field has a dichotomous waveform. The field effects remain the same regardless of the position in the half pulse in which the transport occurs. Factor a represents the hindering effects induced by each half pulse for both the Na and K transports. Similarly we assume that the same facilitating effect b for both the Na and K transports. Results based on these assumptions should not lose their generality in terms of understanding the underlying mechanisms involved in the pump synchronization. Further distinguishing the different field effects on the two transports is useful when focusing on the quantitative study of how many pulses are needed to realize the synchronization.

In Case 3 the initial pumping rate is much lower than the field oscillating frequency or d 2T which allows the patterns of the field induced effects on the pump molecules to remain the same as above. The only difference is that the two transports cannot fall into two consecutive half pulses due to the initial d 2T. Similarly the electric field keeps the two ion transports out of the corresponding hindering half pulses. As a result both the Na and K transports will be trapped into the corresponding facilitating half pulses. For example for a pump whose initial time interval d is in a range of 4T d 2T if the Na extrusion is trapped into a positive half pulse the following K influx will be trapped into the second negative half pulse or the pumping rate is synchronized to one third of the field frequency . The pump molecules whose initial time interval dis much longer than the half pulse duration or whose pumping rate is much lower than the field oscillating frequency will be synchronized to a fraction of the field frequency.

In summary for Case 3 due to the different effects of the two half pulses of the oscillating electric field on the two ion transports the two ion transports of the individual pumps will be eventually kept in the consecutive facilitating half pulses. Consequently the pump currents elicited by the positive half pulses mainly represent the outward Na currents and those evoked during the negative half pulses represent the inward K currents.

An oscillating electric field with a frequency comparable to the pumps turnover rates can adjust the pumping rates and pumping phases of the individual pumps so that the Na extrusion falls into the positive half cycle and the K influx falls into the negative half cycle. Based on the above discussions a pump molecule with a turnover rate in a range from one half to double of the field oscillating frequency can be synchronized to the field frequency. If the pump initial turnover rate is lower than this range the Na extrusion and K influx will also be trapped into the positive and negative half pulses respectively but not in the consecutive two half cycles. However even though all the individual pumps are synchronized to the oscillating electric field their ion transports are not static within the facilitating half pulses because once the two transports are trapped into the corresponding two half cycles the field loses its capability to distinguish transports from individual pumps.

The phase difference accumulation can lead the pumping loop out of the phase from the oscillating electric field. The phase difference can be accumulated in the succeeding half pulses. Alternatively the field facilitation effects can move the transports toward the rising phase of the facilitating half pulses. Because the facilitation effects are more significant than the phase difference accumulation in the following pulses Eq. 5 the ion transports will be trapped in the facilitating half pulse and eventually move towards the rising phase. Once reaching the preceding hindering half pulse the ion transport will be hindered until the pulse changes its polarity and returns to the facilitating half pulses.

Furthermore due to environmental changes such as the ionic concentration changes induced by ion channel opening and thermal effects the pumping rate can fluctuate thus resulting in new time interval d and new phase difference t. This fluctuation can happen at any time in the synchronization process. Some ion transports may even fall into the following half pulse the hindering half pulse at which time the transport will experience competition of facilitation and phase difference accumulation again and eventually be trapped in the facilitating half pulses.

In order to explore the underlying mechanisms involved in synchronization of the ion transporters the inventor employed a simple model of the carrier mediated ion transporter or pump molecule in this case the Na K pump molecule where all of the currents in the Na extrusion limb are attributed in a single narrow pulsed current and likewise for the K influx limb. More than one step is electrogenic in each ion transport limb. Previous studies of the Na K pump have shown that there are at least two electrogenic steps in each transport limb. There are ion movements in both the binding access channel and the unbinding access channel. These are separated by intermediate steps which are voltage independent. Therefore even though the first current is close to the rising phase the second one is not and may be spread in the half pulse due to different time courses of the intermediate voltage independent steps.

In summary synchronization of pump molecules is a dynamic process. Each individual pump tends to be out of phase with respect to the oscillating electric field due to phase difference accumulation. However because of the stronger field facilitating effects most of the pump molecules or at least most of the time of each individual pump will be trapped in the facilitating half pulses. Whenever the field oscillation is ceased the pumps quickly lose their synchronization and thus become randomly paced.

Voltage dependence or I V curve of the synchronized pumps as a function of the synchronization modulation electric field

As long as the pump molecules are synchronized to the oscillating electric field the frequency of the oscillating electric field can be gradually increased. If all the pumps can be kept synchronized during the frequency change the pumping rates of the synchronized pump molecules will be progressively modulated to higher levels. Practically once reaching synchronization the field frequency can be incrementally changed in small steps thus allowing the pumps to be re synchronized to the new frequency. By increasing the field frequency in small increments the turnover rate of the pump molecules can be gradually up modulated in a stepwise pattern.

The synchronization and modulation of the pump molecules provides a novel method to organize and activate the pump molecules. As stated previously the Na K pump was used as an example of the process and did not involve any specific characteristics of the pump molecules thus other carrier mediated ion transporters can be synchronized by a specially designed oscillating electric field.

In order to predict voltage dependence of the synchronized ion transporters or I V curve of the synchronized ion transports as a function of the synchronization modulation electric field the inventor again used the Na K pumps as an example to explain the process of dynamic entrainment of the exchangers turnover rate by the synchronization modulation electric field Chen W. 2006 Voltage dependence of carrier mediated ion transporters . E Statistical nonlinear and soft matter physics February 73 2 Pt 1 021902 1 7. 2006 Chen W. Electrical Synchronization of ion exchangers submitted .

An asymmetric six state model as shown in is used where the binding and unbinding of two legends on the two sides of a cell membrane are separated. Asymmetry is defined as the transporters having different binding affinities to two legends on the two sides of a cell membrane. This arrangement allows the study of the field effects on both ion transports in the same loop. This six state model has been successfully used to study the sigmoidal shaped I V curves of the Na K pumps Rakowski et al 1989 and the distribution of the pumping rates as a function of the environment parameters Lauger 1986 .

The field effects on the ion transport steps of an ion transporter can be shown for an ion transporter that transports m ions A out of the cell by exchanging n ions B into the cell in each cycle. In this situation both ions A and B are cations m is the number of ions transported out of the cell and n is the number of ions transported into the cell. All of the voltage dependent substeps are divided into two voltage dependent steps from Eto Eand from Eto Ein the loop. Four voltage independent steps represent other processes which are insensitive to the membrane potential including binding and unbinding steps with the legends such as ions and ATP . The binding and unbinding steps are defined only in a chemical reaction sense not including the related conformational change in the protein such as occlusion and de occlusion which are involved in the voltage dependent steps. The kinetic behavior of the six state model can be written by six differential chemical reaction equations.

According to Boltzmann theory each reaction rate is proportional to an exponential of the ratio of the energy difference associated with the ion translocation event over the thermal energy KT . When a potential difference V is applied to the cell membrane there are two kinds of energies that are involved in ion transport the intrinsic conformational energy of the transporter which is independent of the membrane potential and the electric energy supplied by the membrane potential V.

Therefore each reaction rate can be considered as a product of two parts. The first part and reflects the intrinsic energy. For active transporters such as the Na K pumps the energy provided by ATP hydrolysis belongs to this intrinsic energy. The second part reflects the effects of the membrane potential which can be expressed as follows e e e e 7 e e e e 8 

where the parameters As and Bs are functions of the number of ions transported and the energy barriers involved in ion transport. It is necessary to point out that the ions A and B are moved in opposite directions so that the membrane potential V has opposite effects on their forward reaction rates and represented by the opposite signs in the exponentials. The same effects applied on their backward reaction rate and . Through these arrangements both passive and active transporters are covered in the model without loss of generality.

When an oscillating electric field V t such as a sinusoidal wave is applied to the cell membrane the voltage dependent parts of the reaction rates become e e e e 9 

Therefore the reaction rates are no longer constant but change as a function of time. When the field oscillating frequency is higher than the pumps turnover rate such as kilo or mega Hz during each ion transport the reaction rate and will continue to oscillate.

A DC field can be applied so that the reaction rates become constants. When the DC field is applied to the system for a sufficient amount of time the system reaches a steady state. The general kinetic differential equations can be simplified to the following algebra equations 

where cis the concentration of the transporter at state Ebinding m ions A cis the concentration of the transporter at Ebinding m ions A and so on. The first equation represents the protein s outwards flux from state Eto Eas a function of forward and backward reaction rates and . The second equation represents the influx from Eto Eas a function of reaction rates and . Since the transporter resides permanently within the membrane the total flux must be zero which is shown in the third equation. The fourth equation is the transporter conservation equation where cis the total concentration of the transporter. In addition the binding and unbinding processes at the membrane interfaces are rapid when compared with the rates of the two ion translocations. Therefore these processes can be considered to be at equilibrium represented by their dissociation constants Rakowski et al 1989 K K K K 11 

where the subscripts represent binding unbinding of m ions A ions or n ions B and the superscripts represent the two sides of the cell membrane i inside o outside . The detailed expressions of these dissociation constants and the flux have been obtained previously Rakowski et al 1989 as 

where the parameters Cs are combinations of the ionic concentrations the dissociation constants and all of the voltage independent parts of the reaction rates and . The above parameters are not sensitive to the membrane potential. Only the forward and backward reaction rates and are sensitive to the membrane potential.

Equation 13 describes pumping flux as a function of the membrane potential. The denominator is a weighted summation of all four reaction rates where the parameters in the exponentials are A B Aand A respectively. The numerator is a weighted subtraction in exponentials where the first term is a subtraction of A A and the second term of B B . When the two forward reaction rates and the two backward reaction rates are comparable respectively which is the case for many carrier mediated ion transporters such as the Na K pump molecules the results of the two subtractions are small. Therefore the value of the first term cannot be particularly high and the second term cannot be particularly small. As a result the pumping flux cannot be significantly increased even when a large membrane potential V is applied to the cell membrane.

A DC change in the membrane potential either depolarization or hyperpolarization cannot significantly increase or decrease the pumping flux. The potential sensitivity is low which restrains the effectiveness of electrical activation of the ion exchangers. In order to increase the pumping flux a large value of the numerator of Eq. 13 is needed which can be realized by increasing the first term and decreasing the second term.

Alternatively to DC application a pulsed oscillating field can be applied. The two ion transports do not occur at the same time but rather occur in a sequential pattern. This allows the two transports to be treated separately and sequentially. Moving cations in the opposite directions allows them to have reverse voltage dependences. Applying a pulsed oscillating electric field whose frequency is comparable to the ion exchanging rate and in which the oscillating pace matches the exchanging loop so that extruding ion A during the positive half pulse and then intruding ion B during the negative half pulse allows the membrane potential to remain a constant in each corresponding ion transport. Throughout the entire ion A extrusion the membrane potential is a positive constant and therefore the reaction rates and remain unchanged even though the membrane potential is oscillated. Similarly during the ion B influx the membrane potential has a constant negative value and the reaction rates and remain unchanged e e e e 14 

The expression of the reaction rates is very similar to that in Eq. 8 regarding a DC field application with the only difference being a change in the sign. When continuously exposed to this oscillating electric field the ion exchanger will quickly reach a steady state. In the same way that the DC field application was treated the same expression of flux of Eq. 12 is shown except the reaction rates in Eq. 14. By substituting the reaction rates Eq. 14 into Eq. 12 we have 

In comparing Eq. 15 to Eq. 13 in the numerator the exponential parameter in the first term becomes A A V and that in the second term becomes B B V. When the membrane potential V increases the value of the denominator does not change significantly. However the numerator increases dramatically because the first term increases and the second term decreases. As a result the pumping flux 0 can significantly increase as the membrane potential V increases.

The pumping process details must be considered in order to apply the synchronization modulation method to the Na K pump. Three sub steps are involved in each ion translocation step binding access channel or ion well changing protein conformation and releasing access channel or ion well Apell 2003 . Three apportionment factors a r and b represent the three portions of the membrane potential aV rV and bV which impact the three sub steps respectively. In terms of the protein conformation change sub step there is an apportionment factor h. Membrane potential hrV provides energy to overcome the energy barrier from Eto Eaffecting the forward reaction rates in the Na transport and the backward reaction rate in the K transport. The rest of portion 1 h rV provides energy to overcome the energy barrier from Eto Eaffecting the backward reaction rate in the Na transport and the forward reaction rate in the K transport. Apportionment factors are used to retain generality and have been used previously Rakowski et al 1989 .

Substituting these apportionment factors into the forward and backward reaction rates for the two ion translocations respectively and considering that 3 Na ion are extruded and 2 K ion are pumped in for each cycle Nakao and Gadsby 1989 Rakowski et al 1991 the equations become 3 3 326 3 3 1 326 2 2 1 226 2 3 226 16 

where z is the intrinsic charge of the pump molecule which moves during the conformation changes. The intrinsic charge has been well accepted as 2 for the Na K pump molecule Gadsby and Nakao 1989 . The following relation was also used in deriving Eq. 13 

where F is Faraday s constant and R is the gas constant. At a room temperature of 24 C. RT F is approximately equal to 26 mV. Assuming parameters a b 1 5 and r 3 5 and substituting these rate coefficients into Eq. 16 and then into Eq. 13 the pumping flux can be calculated as a function of the membrane potential as shown in when a dc field is applied to the cell membrane Rakowski et al 1989 . Abscissa is the membrane potential mV and the ordinate is the pumping flux arbitrary unit . The curve has sigmoidal shape exhibiting a shallow slope and saturation behaviour and having possible negative slope at a large depolarized membrane potential Rakowski et al 1989 . A membrane potential depolarization cannot significantly increase the pump currents. Furthermore there exists an upper limit of the pump currents. When the membrane potential is further depolarized the pump current will eventually decrease. These results are consistent with previous results obtained either theoretically Lauger and Apell 1986 or experimentally Rakowski et al 1997 .

In contrast by substituting into Eq. 16 all of the parameters that were used to obtain into Eq. 15 the pumping flux as a function of the membrane potential can be calculated. The result is shown in . Instead of showing a shallow sigmoidal curve with saturation behavior in the pumping flux is significantly exponentially increased as a function of the membrane potential when a pulsed oscillating electric field whose frequency is the same as the pump s turnover rate and is in phase with the pumping loop is applied to the cells.

The pumping fluxes in response to a traditional DC change in the membrane potential and a special designed oscillating membrane potential can be compared since all of the parameters that were used to calculate the I V curves shown in are the same. At the membrane resting potential of 90 mV the pumping fluxes for both situations are the same having a little less than 0.5 units arbitrary units as shown in respectively. When the membrane potential was depolarized to 50 mV the pumping flux increased to a little less than 1.5 units as shown in . However the synchronization oscillating membrane potential can significantly increase the pumping flux to well above 15 units which is more than a 10 fold increase . As the membrane potential further increases the difference becomes even larger.

The underlying mechanism involved in the low sensitivity of the carrier mediated ion exchangers in the physiological situation showing a sigmoidal shaped I V curve Lauger and Apell 1986 is mainly because the two ion transports are in opposite directions therefore having opposing voltage dependence. Any DC change in the membrane potential either depolarization or hyperpolarization cannot facilitate both ion transports. It can only facilitate one transport but inevitably hinder the other. Competition of the two opposite transports results in the sigmoidal I V curve.

Exposure to the synchronization modulation electric field whose oscillating frequency matches the pumping loop allows the electric field to alternatively facilitate the two transports in the two half pulses respectively. For the Na K pumps the electric field can facilitate the Na extrusion during the positive half pulse and then facilitate the K intrusion during the negative half pulse as shown in Eq. 15. The facilitation of each ion transport into corresponding half pulses prohibits the two ion transports from competing. Both transports are accelerated alternately by the electric field. As a result the total pumping rate or the pump currents are significantly increased thus showing an exponentially liked I V curve.

The pump currents responding to two synchronization frequencies can be compared. As shown in the half pulse duration shown on the left is double the half pulse duration shown on the right. The magnitude of the pump currents corresponding to the right pulse should double that on the left because the same number of pump molecules are involved as well as the resulting same area of pump currents shadowed .

In addition to the analysis computer simulation to the pump synchronization was conducted Chen W. and Huang F. Computer simulation of Synchronization of Na K pump molecules August 5. Epub ahead of print 2008 . Based on these studies a series of whole cell voltage clamp experiments was conducted to demonstrate the pump synchronization modulation Chen W Zhang Z S Synchronization of Na K pump molecules by a train of squared pulses. December 38 5 6 319 25 2006 Chen W. Zhang Z. S. and Huang F. Entrainment of Na K pumps by synchronization modulation electric field 39 331 339 2007 Chen W. Zhang Z. S. and Huang F. Synchronization of the Na K pumps by an oscillating electric field August 2. Epub ahead of print 2008 .

In addition to skeletal muscle fibers Chen W. and Dando R. Electrical activation of Na K pumps can increase ionic concentration gradient and membrane resting potential. 214 147 155 2006 Chen W. Dando R. Synchronization modulation of Na K pump molecules can hyperpolarize the membrane resting potential in intact fibers 39 117 26. 2007 the synchronization modulation method has also been applied to mammalian cardiomyocytes Chen W. and Dando R. Membrane potential hyperpolarization in mammalian cardiac cells by synchronization Modulation of Na K Pumps February 221 3 165 73. 2008 and the PC 12 cell line Chen W. and Wang L. Synchronization modulation of the Na K pump molecules can hyperpolarize the membrane potential of PC 12 cells Molecular and Cellular Biomechanics V3 4 203 204 2006 . Furthermore the synchronization modulation method has demonstrated therapeutic effects on electrically injured cells Chen W. and Dando R. Cellular recovery from electroporation using synchronization modulation as rescue model for electrically injured cells May 26. Epub ahead of print 2008 .

The results have shown that the synchronization modulation method can effectively synchronize ion transporters including carrier mediated ion transporters such as the Na K pump molecules and significantly activate their pumping rate. Consequently the method can transiently hyperpolarize the membrane potential and gradually increase the ionic concentration gradient. Even at non physiological condition the technique can promote the reinstatement of the physiological ionic concentration and membrane potential and prevent cells from necrosis and cell death.

Given the criticality of carrier mediated ion transporters particularly the Na K pumps to cell functions and disease effectively controlling the pumping rate of ion transporters can allow for the reinstatement of normal cell functions and reduction of symptoms of diseases that arise from malfunction of ion transporters such as the Na K pump. The Na K pump for example has been implicated in diseases where a lack of ATP fails to fuel the pump molecules as in various cardiac diseases including murmurs irregular heartbeat and heart failure. The malfunction of the Na K pumps as a result of a lack of ATP molecules is also implicated in brain ischemia and electrical injury where an intensive electrical shock generates pores in the cell membrane.

Diseases in which the density of the Na K pump molecules in a cell membrane is significantly reduced can also be treated by controlling the Na K pumps through the synchronization modulation method. Diseases in this category include myotonic dystrophy diabetes cystic fibrosis central nervous system disorders McArdle disease and various neurological diseases such as Alzheimer s disease and Huntington s disease. The pump molecules in these diseases cannot maintain the ionic concentration gradients and membrane potential. Controlling the pump molecules through the synchronization modulation method would allow ionic concentration gradients to be maintained and thus would lessen symptoms of the disease. Furthermore the method of synchronization modulation significantly activates pump functions and can compensate for a deficient number of pump molecules.

Other diseases characterized by a malfunction of the Na K pump molecules include hypertension and diabetes. Dysfunction of the pump molecules can affect the kidneys peripheral nerves blood vessels and muscle fibers. Research has been performed on various cell types including skeletal muscle fibers and cardiomyocytes. Application of the synchronization modulation method has exhibited a therapeutic effect on electrically injured cells. Similarly for many wound healing processes including bone and skin healing the Na K pumps play a significant role in maintaining the healing process. By directly absorbing electric energy to activate the Na K pump molecules lessening of symptoms can be seen which significantly benefits patients with these diseases or conditions.

In the preceding specification all documents acts or information disclosed does not constitute an admission that the document act or information of any combination thereof was publicly available known to the public part of the general knowledge in the art or was known to be relevant to solve any problem at the time of priority.

The disclosures of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

While there has been described a method of non invasively and electrically controlling carrier mediated ion transporters it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications are possible without deviating from the broad spirit and principle of the present invention. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

