---

title: Methods of therapy for B-cell malignancies using antagonist anti-CD40 antibodies
abstract: Methods of therapy for B-cell malignancies are provided. The methods comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist anti-CD40 antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof to a patient in need thereof. The antagonist anti-CD40 antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof is free of significant agonist activity when the antibody binds a CD40 antigen on a normal human B cell, exhibits antagonist activity when the antibody binds a CD40 antigen on a malignant human B cell, and can exhibit antagonist activity when the antibody binds a CD40 antigen on a normal human B cell. Antagonist activity of the anti-CD40 antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof beneficially inhibits proliferation and/or differentiation of malignant human B cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08088383&OS=08088383&RS=08088383
owner: Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, Inc.
number: 08088383
owner_city: Emeryville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100927
---
The present application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 568 373 filed Sep. 28 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 820 170 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 246 029 filed Oct. 6 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 611 708 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 849 107 filed Aug. 31 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 445 780 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 380 223 filed Mar. 11 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 288 252 which is a National Stage of International Application No. PCT US01 30963 filed Oct. 2 2001 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 237 556 filed Oct. 2 2000 the contents of each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention is directed to methods of therapy for diseases characterized by malignant B cells and tumors of B cell origin using antagonist anti CD40 antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof.

B cells play an important role during the normal in vivo immune response. A foreign antigen will bind to surface immunoglobulins on specific B cells triggering a chain of events including endocytosis processing presentation of processed peptides on MHC class II molecules and up regulation of the B7 antigen on the B cell surface. A specific T cell then binds to the B cell via T cell receptor TCR recognition of the processed antigen presented on the MHC class II molecule. Stimulation through the TCR activates the T cell and initiates T cell cytokine production. A second signal that further activates the T cell is an interaction between the CD28 antigen on T cells and the B7 antigen on B cells. When the above mentioned signals are received the CD40 ligand which is not expressed on resting human T cells is up regulated on the T cell surface. Binding of the CD40 ligand to the CD40 antigen on the B cell surface stimulates the B cell causing the B cell to mature into a plasma cell secreting high levels of soluble immunoglobulin.

CD40 is a cell surface antigen present on the surface of both normal and neoplastic human B cells dendritic cells monocytic and epithelial cells some epithelial carcinomas and on antigen presenting cells APCs . CD40 expression on APCs plays an important co stimulatory role in the activation of both T helper and cytotoxic T lymphocytes. CD40 receptors are also found on eosinophils synovial membranes in rheumatoid arthritis activated platelets inflamed vascular endothelial cells dermal fibroblasts and other non lymphoid cell types. The CD40 receptor is expressed on activated T cells activated platelets and inflamed vascular smooth muscle cells. CD40 is also expressed at low levels on vascular endothelial cells and is up regulated in areas of local inflammation.

Human CD40 is a peptide of 277 amino acids having a predicted molecular weight of 30 600 with a 19 amino acid secretory signal peptide comprising predominantly hydrophobic amino acids. The CD40 receptor exists in a highly modified glycoprotein state on the cell surface and migrates in sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS polyacrylamide gels as an approximately 50 kDa polypeptide.

The CD40 antigen is known to be related to the human nerve growth factor NGF receptor tumor necrosis factor TNF receptor and Fas suggesting that CD40 is a receptor for a ligand with important functions in B cell activation. During B cell differentiation the molecule is first expressed on pre B cells and then disappears from the cell surface when the B cell becomes a plasma cell. The CD40 cell surface antigen plays an important role in B cell proliferation and differentiation.

Binding of its ligand termed CD40L or CD154 to the CD40 receptor stimulates B cell proliferation and differentiation antibody production isotype switching and B cell memory generation. The human and murine CD40L CD40 receptor genes have been cloned Spriggs et al. 1992 176 1543 Armitage et al. 1992 357 80 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 264 951 . Engagement of CD40 receptors by the CD40 ligand on APCs such as macrophages and dendritic cells up regulates cell surface expression of MHC Class II and CD80 86 and induces the secretion of pro inflammatory cytokines such as IL 8 IL 12 and TNF all of which increase the potency of antigen presentation to T cells.

All B cells express common cell surface markers including CD40. Transformed cells from patients with low and high grade B cell lymphomas B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia multiple myeloma chronic lymphocytic leukemia and Hodgkin s disease express CD40. CD40 expression is also detected in two thirds of acute myeloblastic leukemia cases and 50 of AIDS related lymphomas. Further malignant B cells from several tumors of B cell lineage express a high degree of CD40 and appear to depend on CD40 signaling for survival and proliferation.

Additionally immunoblastic B cell lymphomas frequently arise in immunocompromised individuals such as allograft recipients and others receiving long term immunosuppressive therapy AIDS patients and patients with primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as X linked lymphoproliferative syndrome or Wiscott Aldrich syndrome Thomas et al. 1991 57 329 Straus et al. 1993 118 45 . These tumors appear to arise as a result of impaired T cell control of latent Epstein Barr virus EBV infection. Similar lymphomas of human origin can be induced in mice with severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome SCID by inoculation of peripheral blood lymphocytes PBL from healthy EBV positive individuals Mosier et al. 1988 335 256 Rowe et at 1991 173 147 .

The pathogenesis of low grade B lineage malignancies including non Hodgkin s lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia is strongly affected by the imbalance of the growth survival signal by CD40 and a crippled death signal by Fas. Studies in low grade non Hodgkin s lymphoma suggest that the disease is the result of an accumulation of lymphomatous cells due to reduction in Fas mediated apoptosis and an increase in the survival signal through CD40. CD40 provides a survival signal for lymphoma cells from non Hodgkin s B lymphoma patients and stimulates their growth in vitro Romano et al. 2000 36 255 262 Furman et al. 2000 164 2200 2206 Kitada et al. 1999 106 995 1004 Romano et al. 1998 92 990 995 Jacob et al. 1998 22 379 382 Wang et al. 1997 97 409 417 Planken et al. 1996 10 488 493 and Greiner et al. 1997 150 1583 1593 .

Approximately 85 of non Hodgkin s lymphomas a diverse group of malignancies are of B cell origin. The non Hodgkin s lymphomas originate from components of the spleen thymus and lymph nodes. In the Working Formulation classification scheme these lymphomas been divided into low intermediate and high grade categories by virtue of their natural histories see The Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Pathologic Classification Project 49 1982 2112 2135 . The low grade or favorable lymphomas are indolent with a median survival of 5 to 10 years Horning and Rosenberg 1984 311 1471 1475 . Although chemotherapy can induce remissions in the majority of indolent lymphomas cures are rare and most patients eventually relapse requiring further therapy. The intermediate and high grade lymphomas are more aggressive tumors but they have a greater chance for cure with chemotherapy. However significant numbers of these patients will still relapse and require further treatment to induce remissions. Furthermore patients undergoing chemotherapy can experience toxicity effects. Therefore there is a need for new therapies for treating diseases of malignant B cells.

Methods for treating a patient with a disease comprising malignant B cells including lymphomas such as non Hodgkin s lymphomas high grade lymphomas intermediate grade lymphomas and low grade lymphomas Hodgkin s disease acute lymphoblastic leukemias myelomas chronic lymphocytic leukemias and myeloblastic leukemias are provided. The method comprises treating the patient with anti CD40 antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof that are free of significant agonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a normal human B cells and that exhibit antagonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a malignant human B cell. Monoclonal antibodies and antigen binding fragments thereof that are suitable for use in the methods of the invention exhibit the following characteristics 1 are capable of specifically binding to a human CD40 antigen expressed on the surface of a human cell 2 are free of significant agonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a normal human B cell and 3 exhibit antagonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a malignant human B cell. In some embodiments the anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof also exhibits antagonist activity when bound to CD40 antigen on normal human B cells. The monoclonal antibodies have a strong affinity for CD40 and are characterized by a dissociation constant K of at least 10M preferably at least about 10M to about 10M more preferably at least about 5 10to about 10M. Suitable monoclonal antibodies have human constant regions preferably they also have wholly or partially humanized framework regions and most preferably are fully human antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof. Examples of such monoclonal antibodies are the antibody designated herein as 15B8 the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line designated 15B8 a monoclonal antibody comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 2 and SEQ ID NO 4 a monoclonal antibody comprising an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 1 and SEQ ID NO 3 and antigen binding fragments of these monoclonal antibodies that retain the capability of specifically binding to human CD40.

In one embodiment of the invention the therapy comprises administering to a patient a therapeutically effective dose of a pharmaceutical composition comprising suitable anti CD40 antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof. A therapeutically effective dose of the anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof is in the range from about 0.01 mg kg to about 40 mg kg from about 0.01 mg kg to about 30 mg kg from about 0.1 mg kg to about 30 mg kg from about 1 mg kg to about 30 mg kg from about 3 mg kg to about 30 mg kg from about 3 mg kg to about 25 mg kg from about 3 mg kg to about 20 mg kg from about 5 mg kg to about 15 mg kg or from about 7 mg kg to about 12 mg kg. It is recognized that the treatment may comprise administration of a single therapeutically effective dose or administration of multiple therapeutically effective doses of the anti CD40 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof.

The anti CD40 antibodies suitable for use in the methods of the invention may be modified. Modifications of the anti CD40 antibodies include but are not limited to immunologically active chimeric anti CD40 antibodies humanized anti CD40 antibodies and immunologically active murine anti CD40 antibodies.

The present invention is directed to methods for treating human patients with diseases that originate from malignant B cells. The methods involve treatment with an anti CD40 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof where administration of the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof promotes a positive therapeutic response within the patient undergoing this method of therapy. Anti CD40 antibodies suitable for use in the methods of the invention have the following characteristics 1 they specifically bind a human CD40 antigen expressed on the surface of a human cell 2 they are free of significant agonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a normal human B cell and 3 they exhibit antagonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a malignant human B cell. These anti CD40 antibodies and antigen binding fragments thereof are referred to herein as antagonist anti CD40 antibodies. Such antibodies include but are not limited to the fully human monoclonal antibody 15B8 described below and monoclonal antibodies having the binding characteristics of monoclonal antibody 15B8. As discussed in more detail below these antibodies are specific to CD40 receptors. When these antibodies bind CD40 displayed on the surface of normal human B cells the antibodies are free of significant agonist activity in some embodiments their binding to CD40 displayed on the surface of normal human B cells results in inhibition of proliferation and differentiation of these normal human B cells. Thus the antagonist anti CD40 antibodies suitable for use in the methods of the invention include those monoclonal antibodies that can exhibit antagonist activity toward normal human B cells expressing the cell surface CD40 antigen. When antagonist anti CD40 antibodies bind CD40 displayed on the surface of malignant human B cells the antibodies exhibit antagonist activity as defined elsewhere herein.

 Treatment is herein defined as the application or administration of an antagonist anti CD40 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof to a patient or application or administration of an antagonist anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof to an isolated tissue or cell line from a patient where the patient has a disease a symptom of a disease or a predisposition toward a disease where the purpose is to cure heal alleviate relieve alter remedy ameliorate improve or affect the disease the symptoms of the disease or the predisposition toward the disease. By treatment is also intended the application or administration of a pharmaceutical composition comprising the antagonist anti CD40 antibodies or fragments thereof to a patient or application or administration of a pharmaceutical composition comprising the anti CD40 antibodies or fragments thereof to an isolated tissue or cell line from a patient who has a disease a symptom of a disease or a predisposition toward a disease where the purpose is to cure heal alleviate relieve alter remedy ameliorate improve or affect the disease the symptoms of the disease or the predisposition toward the disease.

By anti tumor activity is intended a reduction in the rate of malignant B cell proliferation or accumulation and hence a decline in growth rate of an existing tumor or in a tumor that arises during therapy and or destruction of existing neoplastic tumor cells or newly formed neoplastic cells and hence a decrease in the overall size of a tumor during therapy. Therapy with at least one anti CD40 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof causes a physiological response that is beneficial with respect to treatment of disease states comprising malignant B cells in a human.

The monoclonal antibody 15B8 represents a suitable antagonist anti CD40 antibody for use in the methods of the present invention. This antibody is described in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 237 556 titled Human Anti CD40 Antibodies filed Oct. 2 2000 and PCT International Application No. PCT US01 30857 also titled Human Anti CD40 Antibodies filed Oct. 2 2001 Attorney Docket No. PP 16092.003 both of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. The 15B8 antibody is a fully human anti CD40 monoclonal antibody of the IgGisotype produced from the hybridoma cell line 15B8. The cell line was created using splenocytes from an immunized xenotypic mouse containing a human immunoglobulin locus Abgenix . The spleen cells were fused with the mouse myeloma SP2 0 cells Sierra BioSource . The resulting hybridomas were sub cloned several times to create the stable monoclonal cell line 15B8. The hybridoma cell line 15B8 was deposited with the American Type Culture Collection ATCC 10801 University Boulevard Manassas Va. USA on Oct. 25 2001 under the terms of the Budapest Treaty and assigned Patent DepositDesignation PTA 3814.

The 15B8 cell line was adapted to grow in protein free medium and used to create a Master Cell Bank. The Master Cell Bank was tested for identity and adventitious and endogenous contaminants. The Master Cell Bank was used to manufacture the desired human IgG. The respective 15B8 antibody was purified using chromatography and filtration procedures.

The anti CD40 antibody 15B8 is a polypeptide composed of 1 284 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular weight of 149 755 with two heavy chains and two light chains in a heterodimeric arrangement. Amino acid analysis reveals that the antibody is composed of equimolar amounts of heavy and light chains. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences for the variable region for the light chain are set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 and SEQ ID NO 2 respectively. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences for the variable region for the heavy chain are set forth in SEQ ID NO 3 and SEQ ID NO 4 respectively. The 15B8 monoclonal antibody binds soluble CD40 in ELISA type assays. When tested in vitro for effects on proliferation of B cells from numerous primates 15B8 acts as an agonistic anti CD40 antibody in cynomologus baboon and rhesus monkeys. In assays with humans chimpanzees and marmosets 15B8 is an antagonist anti CD40 antibody. The binding affinity of 15B8 to human CD40 is 3.1 10M as determined by the Biacore assay.

Suitable antagonist anti CD40 antibodies for use in the methods of the present invention exhibit a strong single site binding affinity for the CD cell surface antigen. The monoclonal antibodies of the invention exhibit a dissociation constant K for CD40 of at least 10M at least 3 10M preferably at least 10M to 10M more preferably at least 10M to about 10M yet more preferably at least 5 10M to about 10M most preferably at least about 5 10M to about 10M such as 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M or 10M as measured using a standard assay such as Biacore .

By CD40 antigen is intended a glycosylated transmembrane peptide or any fragment thereof GenBank Accession No. X60592 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 674 492 and 4 708 871 Stamenkovic et al. 1989 8 1403 Clark 1990 36 33 Barclay et al. 1997 2d ed. Academic Press San Diego . The CD40 receptor is displayed on the surface of a variety of cell types as described elsewhere herein. By displayed on the surface and expressed on the surface is intended that all or a portion of the CD40 antigen is exposed to the exterior of the cell. The displayed or expressed CD40 antigen may be fully or partially glycosylated.

By agonist activity is intended that the substance functions as an agonist. An agonist combines with a receptor on a cell and initiates a reaction or activity that is similar to or the same as that initiated by the receptor s natural ligand. An agonist of CD40 induces any or all of but not limited to the following responses B cell proliferation and differentiation antibody production intercellular adhesion B cell memory generation isotype switching up regulation of cell surface expression of MHC Class II and CD80 86 and secretion of pro inflammatory cytokines such as IL 8 IL 12 and TNF. By antagonist activity is intended that the substance functions as an antagonist. An antagonist of CD40 prevents or reduces induction of any of the responses induced by binding of the CD40 receptor to an agonist ligand particularly CD40L. The antagonist may reduce induction of any one or more of the responses to agonist binding by 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 preferably 40 45 50 55 60 more preferably 70 80 85 and most preferably 90 95 99 or 100 . Methods for measuring B cell responses are known to one of skill in the art and include but are not limited to B cell proliferation assays Banchereau Like B Cell proliferation assays T cell helper assays for antibody production co stimulation of B cell proliferation assays and assays for up regulation of B cell activation markers. Several of these assays are discussed in more detail elsewhere herein.

By significant agonist activity is intended an agonist activity of at least 30 35 40 45 50 60 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 greater than the agonist activity induced by a neutral substance or negative control as measured in an assay of a B cell response. A substance free of significant agonist activity would exhibit an agonist activity of not more than about 25 greater than the agonist activity induced by a neutral substance or negative control preferably not more than about 20 greater 15 greater 10 greater 5 greater 1 greater 0.5 greater or even not more than about 0.1 greater than the agonist activity induced by a neutral substance or negative control as measured in an assay of a B cell response. The antagonist anti CD40 antibodies useful in the methods of the present invention are free of significant agonist activity as noted above when bound to a CD40 antigen on a normal human B cell. In one embodiment of the invention the antagonist anti CD40 antibody is free of significant agonist activity in one B cell response. In another embodiment of the invention the antagonist anti CD40 antibody is free of significant agonist activity in assays of more than one B cell response e.g. proliferation and differentiation or proliferation differentiation and antibody production .

As used herein anti CD40 antibody encompasses any antibody that specifically recognizes the CD40 B cell surface antigen including polyclonal antibodies monoclonal antibodies single chain antibodies and fragments thereof such as Fab F ab F and other fragments which retain the antigen binding function of the parent anti CD40 antibody. Polyclonal sera may be prepared by conventional methods. In general a solution containing the CD40 antigen is first used to immunize a suitable animal preferably a mouse rat rabbit or goat. Rabbits or goats are preferred for the preparation of polyclonal sera due to the volume of serum obtainable and the availability of labeled anti rabbit and anti goat antibodies. Polyclonal sera can be prepared in a transgenic animal preferably a mouse bearing human immunoglobulin loci. In a preferred embodiment Sf9 cells expressing CD40 are used as the immunogen. Immunization can also be performed by mixing or emulsifying the antigen containing solution in saline preferably in an adjuvant such as Freund s complete adjuvant and injecting the mixture or emulsion parenterally generally subcutaneously or intramuscularly . A dose of 50 200 g injection is typically sufficient. Immunization is generally boosted 2 6 weeks later with one or more injections of the protein in saline preferably using Freund s incomplete adjuvant. One may alternatively generate antibodies by in vitro immunization using methods known in the art which for the purposes of this invention is considered equivalent to in vivo immunization. Polyclonal antisera are obtained by bleeding the immunized animal into a glass or plastic container incubating the blood at 25 C. for one hour followed by incubating at 4 C. for 2 18 hours. The serum is recovered by centrifugation e.g. 1 000 g for 10 minutes . About 20 50 ml per bleed may be obtained from rabbits.

Preferably the antibody is monoclonal in nature. By monoclonal antibody is intended an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific being directed against a single antigenic site i.e. the CD40 B cell surface antigen in the present invention. Furthermore in contrast to conventional polyclonal antibody preparations that typically include different antibodies directed against different determinants epitopes each monoclonal antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen. The modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the present invention may be made by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al. 1975 256 495 or may be made by recombinant DNA methods see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 . The monoclonal antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in for example Clackson et al. 1991 352 624 628 Marks et al. 1991 222 581 597 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 514 548.

Monoclonal antibodies can be prepared using the method of Kohler et al. 1975 Nature 256 495 496 or a modification thereof. Typically a mouse is immunized with a solution containing an antigen. Immunization can be performed by mixing or emulsifying the antigen containing solution in saline preferably in an adjuvant such as Freund s complete adjuvant and injecting the mixture or emulsion parenterally. Any method of immunization known in the art may be used to obtain the monoclonal antibodies of the invention. After immunization of the animal the spleen and optionally several large lymph nodes are removed and dissociated into single cells. The spleen cells may be screened by applying a cell suspension to a plate or well coated with the antigen of interest. The B cells expressing membrane bound immunoglobulin specific for the antigen bind to the plate and are not rinsed away. Resulting B cells or all dissociated spleen cells are then induced to fuse with myeloma cells to form hybridomas and are cultured in a selective medium. The resulting cells are plated by serial dilution and are assayed for the production of antibodies that specifically bind the antigen of interest and that do not bind to unrelated antigens . The selected monoclonal antibody mAb secreting hybridomas are then cultured either in vitro e.g. in tissue culture bottles or hollow fiber reactors or in vivo as ascites in mice .

As an alternative to the use of hybridomas antibody can be produced in a cell line such as a CHO cell line as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 545 403 5 545 405 and 5 998 144 incorporated herein by reference. Briefly the cell line is transfected with vectors capable of expressing a light chain and a heavy chain respectively. By transfecting the two proteins on separate vectors chimeric antibodies can be produced. Another advantage is the correct glycosylation of the antibody.

Monoclonal antibodies to CD40 are known in the art. See for example the sections dedicated to B cell antigen in McMichael ed. 1987 1989 Oxford University Press New York U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 674 492 5 874 082 5 677 165 6 056 959 WO 00 63395 copending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 237 556 titled Human Anti CD40 Antibodies filed Oct. 2 2000 Gordon et al. 1988 140 1425 Valle et al. 1989 19 1463 Clark et al. 1986 83 4494 Paulie et al. 1989 142 590 Gordon et al. 1987 17 1535 Jabara et al. 1990 172 1861 Zhang et al. 1991 146 1836 Gascan et al. 1991 147 8 Banchereau et al. 1991 3 8 and Banchereau et al. 1991 251 70 all of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Additionally the term anti CD40 antibody as used herein encompasses chimeric anti CD40 antibodies. By chimeric antibodies is intended antibodies that are most preferably derived using recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid techniques and which comprise both human including immunologically related species e.g. chimpanzee and non human components. Thus the constant region of the chimeric antibody is most preferably substantially identical to the constant region of a natural human antibody the variable region of the chimeric antibody is most preferably derived from a non human source and has the desired antigenic specificity to the CD40 cell surface antigen. The non human source can be any vertebrate source that can be used to generate antibodies to a human CD40 cell surface antigen or material comprising a human CD40 cell surface antigen. Such non human sources include but are not limited to rodents e.g. rabbit rat mouse etc. see for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 herein incorporated by reference and non human primates e.g. Old World Monkey Ape etc. see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 750 105 and 5 756 096 herein incorporated by reference . As used herein the phrase immunologically active when used in reference to chimeric anti CD40 antibodies means a chimeric antibody that binds human CD40.

Humanized anti CD40 antibodies are also encompassed by the term anti CD40 antibody as used herein. By humanized is intended forms of anti CD40 antibodies that contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin sequences. For the most part humanized antibodies are human immunoglobulins recipient antibody in which residues from a hypervariable region also known as complementarity determining region or CDR of the recipient are replaced by residues from a hypervariable region of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat rabbit or nonhuman primate having the desired specificity affinity and capacity. Humanization can be essentially performed following the method of Winter and co workers Jones et al. 1986 321 522 525 Riechmann et al. 1988 332 323 327 Verhoeyen et al. 1988 239 1534 1536 by substituting rodent or mutant rodent CDRs or CDR sequences for the corresponding sequences of a human antibody. See also U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 225 539 5 585 089 5 693 761 5 693 762 5 859 205 herein incorporated by reference. In some instances residues within the framework regions of one or more variable regions of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non human residues see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 585 089 5 693 761 5 693 762 and 6 180 370 . Furthermore humanized antibodies may comprise residues that are not found in the recipient antibody or in the donor antibody. These modifications are made to further refine antibody performance e.g. to obtain desired affinity . In general the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains in which all or substantially all of the hypervariable regions correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the framework regions are those of a human immunoglobulin sequence. The humanized antibody optionally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region Fc typically that of a human immunoglobulin. For further details see Jones et al. 1986 331 522 525 Riechmann et al. 1988 332 323 329 and Presta 1992 2 593 596 herein incorporated by reference. Accordingly such humanized antibodies may include antibodies wherein substantially less than an intact human variable domain has been substituted by the corresponding sequence from a non human species. In practice humanized antibodies are typically human antibodies in which some CDR residues and possibly some framework residues are substituted by residues from analogous sites in rodent antibodies. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 225 539 5 585 089 5 693 761 5 693 762 5 859 205. See also U.S. Pat. No. 6 180 370 and International Publication No. WO 01 27160 where humanized antibodies and techniques for producing humanized antibodies having improved affinity for a predetermined antigen are disclosed.

Also encompassed by the term anti CD40 antibodies are xenogeneic or modified anti CD40 antibodies produced in a non human mammalian host more particularly a transgenic mouse characterized by inactivated endogenous immunoglobulin Ig loci. In such transgenic animals competent endogenous genes for the expression of light and heavy subunits of host immunoglobulins are rendered non functional and substituted with the analogous human immunoglobulin loci. These transgenic animals produce human antibodies in the substantial absence of light or heavy host immunoglobulin subunits. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 877 397 and 5 939 598 herein incorporated by reference.

Fragments of the anti CD40 antibodies are suitable for use in the methods of the invention so long as they retain the desired affinity of the full length antibody. Thus a fragment of an anti CD40 antibody will retain the ability to bind to the CD40 B cell surface antigen. Such fragments are characterized by properties similar to the corresponding full length antagonist anti CD40 antibody that is the fragments will 1 specifically bind a human CD40 antigen expressed on the surface of a human cell 2 are free of significant agonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a normal human B cell and 3 exhibit antagonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a malignant human B cell. Where the full length antagonist anti CD40 antibody exhibits antagonist activity when bound to the CD40 antigen on the surface of a normal human B cell the fragment will also exhibit such antagonist activity. Such fragments are referred to herein as antigen binding fragments.

Suitable antigen binding fragments of an antibody comprise a portion of a full length antibody generally the antigen binding or variable region thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include but are not limited to Fab F ab and Fv fragments and single chain antibody molecules. By single chain Fv or sFv antibody fragments is intended fragments comprising the Vand Vdomains of an antibody wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 946 778 5 260 203 5 455 030 5 856 456 herein incorporated by reference. Generally the Fv polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker between the Vand Vdomains that enables the sFv to form the desired structure for antigen binding. For a review of sFv see Pluckthun 1994 in Vol. 113 ed. Rosenburg and Moore Springer Verlag New York pp. 269 315.

Antibodies or antibody fragments can be isolated from antibody phage libraries generated using the techniques described in for example McCafferty et al. 1990 348 552 554 1990 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 514 548. Clackson et al. 1991 352 624 628 and Marks et al. 1991 222 581 597 describe the isolation of murine and human antibodies respectively using phage libraries. Subsequent publications describe the production of high affinity nM range human antibodies by chain shuffling Marks et al. 1992 10 779 783 as well as combinatorial infection and in vivo recombination as a strategy for constructing very large phage libraries Waterhouse et al. 1993 21 2265 2266 . Thus these techniques are viable alternatives to traditional monoclonal antibody hybridoma techniques for isolation of monoclonal antibodies.

Various techniques have been developed for the production of antibody fragments. Traditionally these fragments were derived via proteolytic digestion of intact antibodies see e.g. Morimoto et al. 1992 24 107 117 1992 and Brennan et al. 1985 229 81 . However these fragments can now be produced directly by recombinant host cells. For example the antibody fragments can be isolated from the antibody phage libraries discussed above. Alternatively Fab SH fragments can be directly recovered from and chemically coupled to form F ab fragments Carter et al. 1992 10 163 167 . According to another approach F ab fragments can be isolated directly from recombinant host cell culture. Other techniques for the production of antibody fragments will be apparent to the skilled practitioner.

Antagonist anti CD40 antibodies useful in the methods of the present invention include the 15B8 monoclonal antibody disclosed herein as well as antibodies differing from this antibody but retaining the CDRs and antibodies with one or more amino acid addition s deletion s or substitution s wherein the antagonist activity is measured by inhibition of malignant B cell proliferation and or differentiation. The invention also encompasses de immunized antagonist anti CD40 antibodies which can be produced as described in for example International Publication Nos. WO 98 52976 and WO 0034317 herein incorporated by reference. In this manner residues within the antagonist anti CD40 antibodies of the invention are modified so as to render the antibodies non or less immunogenic to humans while retaining their antagonist activity toward malignant human B cells wherein such activity is measured by assays noted elsewhere herein. Also included within the scope of the claims are fusion proteins comprising an antagonist anti CD40 antibody of the invention or a fragment thereof which fusion proteins can be synthesized or expressed from corresponding polynucleotide vectors as is known in the art. Such fusion proteins are described with reference to conjugation of antibodies as noted below.

The antibodies of the present invention can have sequence variations produced using methods described in for example Patent Publication Nos. EP 0 983 303 A1 WO 00 34317 and WO 98 52976 incorporated herein by reference. For example it has been shown that sequences within the CDR can cause an antibody to bind to MHC Class II and trigger an unwanted helper T cell response. A conservative substitution can allow the antibody to retain binding activity yet lose its ability to trigger an unwanted T cell response. Any such conservative or non conservative substitutions can be made using art recognized methods such as those noted elsewhere herein and the resulting antibodies will fall within the scope of the invention. The variant antibodies can be routinely tested for antagonist activity affinity and specificity using methods described herein.

An antibody produced by any of the methods described above or any other method not disclosed herein will fall within the scope of the invention if it possesses at least one of the following biological activities inhibition of immunoglobulin secretion by normal human peripheral B cells stimulated by T cells inhibition of proliferation of normal human peripheral B cells stimulated by Jurkat T cells inhibition of proliferation of normal human peripheral B cells stimulated by CD40L expressing cells and inhibition of proliferation of human malignant B cells as noted below. These assays can be performed as described in the Examples herein. See also the assays described in Schultze et al. 1998 92 8200 8204 Denton et al. 1998 2 6 15 Evans et al. 2000 164 688 697 Noelle 1998 49 17 22 Lederman et al. 1996 3 77 86 Coligan et al. 1991 13 12 Kwekkeboom et al. 1993 79 439 444 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 674 492 and 5 847 082 herein incorporated by reference.

Any of the previously described antagonist anti CD40 antibodies or antibody fragments thereof may be conjugated prior to use in the methods of the present invention. Methods for producing conjugated antibodies are known in the art. Thus the anti CD40 antibody may be labeled using an indirect labeling or indirect labeling approach. By indirect labeling or indirect labeling approach is intended that a chelating agent is covalently attached to an antibody and at least one radionuclide is inserted into the chelating agent. See for example the chelating agents and radionuclides described in Srivagtava and Mease 1991 18 589 603 herein incorporated by reference. Alternatively the anti CD40 antibody may be labeled using direct labeling or a direct labeling approach where a radionuclide is covalently attached directly to an antibody typically via an amino acid residue . Preferred radionuclides are provided in Srivagtava and Mease 1991 supra. The indirect labeling approach is particularly preferred. See also for example International Publication Nos. WO 00 52031 and WO 00 52473 where a linker is used to attach a radioactive label to antibodies and the labeled forms of anti CD40 antibodies described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 015 542 herein incorporated by reference.

Further an antibody or fragment thereof may be conjugated to a therapeutic moiety such as a cytotoxin a therapeutic agent or a radioactive metal ion. A cytotoxin or cytotoxic agent includes any agent that is detrimental to cells. Examples include taxol cytochalasin B gramicidin D ethidium bromide emetine mitomycin etoposide tenoposide vincristine vinblastine colchicin doxorubicin daunorubicin dihydroxy anthracin dione mitoxantrone mithramycin actinomycin D 1 dehydrotestosterone glucocorticoids procaine tetracaine lidocaine propranolol and puromycin and analogs or homologs thereof. Therapeutic agents include but are not limited to antimetabolites e.g. methotrexate 6 mercaptopurine 6 thioguanine cytarabine 5 fluorouracil decarbazine alkylating agents e.g. mechlorethamine thioepa chlorambucil melphalan carmustine BSNU and lomustine CCNU cyclothosphamide busulfan dibromomannitol streptozotocin mitomycin C and cis dichlorodiamine platinum II DDP cisplatin anthracyclines e.g. daunorubicin formerly daunomycin and doxorubicin antibiotics e.g. dactinomycin formerly actinomycin bleomycin mithramycin and anthramycin AMC and anti mitotic agents e.g. vincristine and vinblastine . The conjugates of the invention can be used for modifying a given biological response the drug moiety is not to be construed as limited to classical chemical therapeutic agents. For example the drug moiety may be a protein or polypeptide possessing a desired biological activity. Such proteins may include for example a toxin such as abrin ricin A pseudomonas exotoxin or diphtheria toxin a protein such as tumor necrosis factor interferon alpha interferon beta nerve growth factor platelet derived growth factor tissue plasminogen activator or biological response modifiers such as for example lymphokines interleukin 1 IL 1 interleukin 2 IL 2 interleukin 6 IL 6 granulocyte macrophase colony stimulating factor GM CSF granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF or other growth factors.

Techniques for conjugating such therapeutic moiety to antibodies are well known. See for example Arnon et al. 1985 Monoclonal Antibodies for Immunotargeting of Drugs in Cancer Therapy in ed. Reisfeld et al. Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 243 256 ed. Hellstrom et al. 1987 Antibodies for Drug Delivery in ed. Robinson et al. 2d ed Marcel Dekker Inc. pp. 623 653 Thorpe 1985 Antibody Carriers of Cytotoxic Agents in Cancer Therapy A Review in 84 ed. Pinchera et al. pp. 475 506 Editrice Kurds Milano Italy 1985 Analysis Results and Future Prospective of the Therapeutic Use of Radiolabeled Antibody in Cancer Therapy in ed. Baldwin et al. Academic Press New York 1985 pp. 303 316 and Thorpe et al. 1982 62 119 158.

Alternatively an antibody can be conjugated to a second antibody to form an antibody heteroconjugate as described by Segal in U.S. Pat. No. 4 676 980. In addition linkers may be used between the labels and the antibodies of the invention see U.S. Pat. No. 4 831 175 . Antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof may be directly labeled with radioactive iodine indium yttrium or other radioactive particle known in the art U.S. Pat. No. 5 595 721 . Treatment may consist of a combination of treatment with conjugated and nonconjugated antibodies administered simultaneously or subsequently WO 00 52031 and WO 00 52473 .

Methods of the invention are directed to the use of antagonist anti CD40 antibodies to treat patients having a disease comprising malignant B cells. By malignant B cell is intended any neoplastic B cell including but not limited to B cells derived from lymphomas including low intermediate and high grade B cell lymphomas immunoblastic lymphomas non Hodgkin s lymphomas Hodgkin s disease Epstein Barr Virus EBV induced lymphomas and AIDS related lymphomas as well as B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias myelomas chronic lymphocytic leukemias acute myeloblastic leukemias and the like.

The methods of the invention find use in the treatment of non Hodgkin s lymphomas related to abnormal uncontrollable B cell proliferation or accumulation. For purposes of the present invention such lymphomas will be referred to according to the Working Formulation classification scheme that is those B cell lymphomas categorized as low grade intermediate grade and high grade see The Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Pathologic Classification Project 49 1982 2112 2135 . Thus low grade B cell lymphomas include small lymphocytic follicular small cleaved cell and follicular mixed small cleaved and large cell lymphomas intermediate grade lymphomas include follicular large cell diffuse small cleaved cell diffuse mixed small and large cell and diffuse large cell lymphomas and high grade lymphomas include large cell immunoblastic lymphoblastic and small non cleaved cell lymphomas of the Burkitt s and non Burkitt s type.

It is recognized that the methods of the invention are useful in the therapeutic treatment of B cell lymphomas that are classified according to the Revised European and American Lymphoma Classification REAL system. Such B cell lymphomas include but are not limited to lymphomas classified as precursor B cell neoplasms such as B lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma peripheral B cell neoplasms including B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia small lymphocytic lymphoma lymphoplasmacytoid lymphoma immunocytoma mantle cell lymphoma MCL follicle center lymphoma follicular including diffuse small cell diffuse mixed small and large cell and diffuse large cell lymphomas marginal zone B cell lymphoma including extranodal nodal and splenic types hairy cell leukemia plasmacytoma myeloma diffuse large cell B cell lymphoma of the subtype primary mediastinal thymic Burkitt s lymphoma and Burkitt s like high grade B cell lymphoma acute leukemias acute lymphocytic leukemias myeloblastic leukemias acute myelocytic leukemias promyelocytic leukemia myelomonocytic leukemia monocytic leukemia erythroleukemia granulocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia polycythemia vera multiple myeloma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia heavy chain disease and unclassifiable low grade or high grade B cell lymphomas.

It is recognized that the methods of the invention may be useful in preventing further tumor outgrowths arising during therapy. The methods of the invention are particularly useful in the treatment of subjects having low grade B cell lymphomas particularly those subjects having relapses following standard chemotherapy. Low grade B cell lymphomas are more indolent than the intermediate and high grade B cell lymphomas and are characterized by a relapsing remitting course. Thus treatment of these lymphomas is improved using the methods of the invention as relapse episodes are reduced in number and severity.

The antagonist anti CD40 antibodies described herein may also find use in the treatment of inflammatory diseases and deficiencies or disorders of the immune system including but not limited to systemic lupus erythematosus psoriasis scleroderma CREST syndrome inflammatory myositis Sjogren s syndrome mixed connective tissue disease rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis inflammatory bowel disease acute respiratory distress syndrome pulmonary inflammation idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis osteoporosis delayed type hypersensitivity asthma primary biliary cirrhosis and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.

In accordance with the methods of the present invention at least one antagonist anti CD40 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof as defined elsewhere herein is used to promote a positive therapeutic response with respect to a malignant human B cell. By positive therapeutic response is intended an improvement in the disease in association with the anti tumor activity of these antibodies or fragments thereof and or an improvement in the symptoms associated with the disease. That is an anti proliferative effect the prevention of further tumor outgrowths and or a decrease in B symptoms can be observed. Thus for example an improvement in the disease may be characterized as a complete response. By complete response is intended an absence of clinically detectable disease with normalization of any previously abnormal radiographic studies bone marrow and cerebrospinal fluid CSF . Such a response must persist for at least one month following treatment according to the methods of the invention. Alternatively an improvement in the disease may be categorized as being a partial response. By partial response is intended at least about a 50 decrease in all measurable tumor burden i.e. the number of tumor cells present in the subject in the absence of new lesions and persisting for at least one month. Such a response is applicable to measurable tumors only. In addition to these positive therapeutic responses the subject undergoing therapy with the antagonist anti CD40 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof may experience the beneficial effect of an improvement in the symptoms associated with the disease. Thus the subject may experience a decrease in the so called B symptoms i.e. night sweats fever weight loss and or urticaria.

By therapeutically effective dose or amount is intended an amount of antagonist anti CD40 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that when administered brings about a positive therapeutic response with respect to treatment of a patient with a disease comprising malignant B cells. Administration of the pharmaceutical composition comprising the therapeutically effective dose or amount can be achieved using any acceptable administration method known in the art. Preferably the pharmaceutical composition comprising the antagonist anti CD40 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof is administered intravenously preferably by infusion over a period of about 1 to about 10 hours more preferably over about 1 to about 8 hours even more preferably over about 2 to about 7 hours still more preferably over about 4 to about 6 hours depending upon the anti CD40 antibody being administered. The initial infusion with the pharmaceutical composition may be given over a period of about 4 to about 6 hours with subsequent infusions delivered more quickly. Subsequent infusions may be administered over a period of about 1 to about 6 hours preferably about 1 to about 4 hours more preferably about 1 to about 3 hours yet more preferably about 1 to about 2 hours.

A pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be compatible with its intended route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral e.g. intravenous intradermal subcutaneous oral e.g. inhalation transdermal topical transmucosal and rectal administration. Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral intradermal or subcutaneous application can include the following components a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution fixed oils polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.

The anti CD40 antibodies are typically provided by standard technique within a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer for example sterile saline sterile buffered water propylene glycol combinations of the foregoing etc. Methods for preparing parenterally administrable agents are described in 18ed. Mack Publishing Company Eaton Pa. 1990 herein incorporated by reference. See also for example WO 98 56418 which describes stabilized antibody pharmaceutical formulations suitable for use in the methods of the present invention.

The amount of at least one anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof to be administered is readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art without undue experimentation. Factors influencing the mode of administration and the respective amount of at least one antagonist anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof include but are not limited to the particular lymphoma undergoing therapy the severity of the disease the history of the disease and the age height weight health and physical condition of the individual undergoing therapy. Similarly the amount of antagonist anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof to be administered will be dependent upon the mode of administration and whether the subject will undergo a single dose or multiple doses of this anti tumor agent. Generally a higher dosage of anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof is preferred with increasing weight of the patient undergoing therapy. The dose of anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof to be administered is in the range from about 0.003 mg kg to about 50 mg kg preferably in the range of 0.01 mg kg to about 40 mg kg. Thus for example the dose can be 0.01 mg kg 0.03 mg kg 0.1 mg kg 0.3 mg kg 0.5 mg kg 1 mg kg 1.5 mg kg 2 mg kg 2.5 mg kg 3 mg kg 5 mg kg 7 mg kg 10 mg kg 15 mg kg 20 mg kg 25 mg kg 30 mg kg 35 mg kg 40 mg kg 45 mg kg or 50 mg kg.

In another embodiment of the invention the method comprises administration of multiple doses of antagonist anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof. The method may comprise administration of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 or more therapeutically effective doses of a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antagonist anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof. The frequency and duration of administration of multiple doses of the pharmaceutical compositions comprising anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof can be readily determined by one of skill in the art without undue experimentation. Moreover treatment of a subject with a therapeutically effective amount of an antibody can include a single treatment or preferably can include a series of treatments. In a preferred example a subject is treated with antagonist anti CD40 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof in the range of between about 0.1 to 20 mg kg body weight once per week for between about 1 to 10 weeks preferably between about 2 to 8 weeks more preferably between about 3 to 7 weeks and even more preferably for about 4 5 or 6 weeks. Treatment may occur annually to prevent relapse or upon indication of relapse. It will also be appreciated that the effective dosage of antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof used for treatment may increase or decrease over the course of a particular treatment. Changes in dosage may result and become apparent from the results of diagnostic assays as described herein. Thus in one embodiment the dosing regimen includes a first administration of a therapeutically effective dose of at least one anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof on days 1 7 14 and 21 of a treatment period. In another embodiment the dosing regimen includes a first administration of a therapeutically effective dose of at least one anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof on days 1 2 3 4 5 6 and 7 of a week in a treatment period. Further embodiments include a dosing regimen having a first administration of a therapeutically effective dose of at least one anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof on days 1 3 5 and 7 of a week in a treatment period a dosing regimen including a first administration of a therapeutically effective dose of at least one anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof on days 1 and 3 of a week in a treatment period and a preferred dosing regimen including a first administration of a therapeutically effective dose of at least one anti CD40 antibody or fragment thereof on day 1 of a week in a treatment period. The treatment period may comprise 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks a month 3 months 6 months or a year. Treatment periods may be subsequent or separated from each other by a day a week 2 weeks a month 3 months 6 months or a year.

The antagonist anti CD40 antibodies present in the pharmaceutical compositions described herein for use in the methods of the invention may be native or obtained by recombinant techniques and may be from any source including mammalian sources such as e.g. mouse rat rabbit primate pig and human. Preferably such polypeptides are derived from a human source and more preferably are recombinant human proteins from hybridoma cell lines.

The pharmaceutical compositions useful in the methods of the invention may comprise biologically active variants of the antagonist anti CD40 antibodies of the invention. Such variants should retain the desired biological activity of the native polypeptide such that the pharmaceutical composition comprising the variant polypeptide has the same therapeutic effect as the pharmaceutical composition comprising the native polypeptide when administered to a subject. That is the variant anti CD40 antibody will serve as a therapeutically active component in the pharmaceutical composition in a manner similar to that observed for the native antagonist antibody for example 15B8 as expressed by the hybridoma cell line 15B8. Methods are available in the art for determining whether a variant anti CD40 antibody retains the desired biological activity and hence serves as a therapeutically active component in the pharmaceutical composition. Biological activity of antibody variants can be measured using assays specifically designed for measuring activity of the native antagonist antibody including assays described in the present invention.

Suitable biologically active variants of native or naturally occurring antagonist anti CD40 antibodies can be fragments analogues and derivatives of that polypeptide. By fragment is intended a polypeptide consisting of only a part of the intact polypeptide sequence and structure as noted elsewhere herein. By analogue is intended an analogue of either the native polypeptide or of a fragment of the native polypeptide where the analogue comprises a native polypeptide sequence and structure having one or more amino acid substitutions insertions or deletions. By derivative is intended any suitable modification of the native polypeptide of interest of a fragment of the native polypeptide or of their respective analogues such as glycosylation phosphorylation polymer conjugation such as with polyethylene glycol or other addition of foreign moieties so long as the desired biological activity of the native polypeptide is retained. Methods for making polypeptide fragments analogues and derivatives are generally available in the art.

For example amino acid sequence variants of an antagonist anti CD40 antibody can be prepared by mutations in the cloned DNA sequence encoding the antibody of interest. Methods for mutagenesis and nucleotide sequence alterations are well known in the art. See for example Walker and Gaastra eds. 1983 Techniques in Molecular Biology MacMillan Publishing Company New York Kunkel 1985 82 488 492 Kunkel et al. 1987 154 367 382 Sambrook et al. 1989 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. U.S. Pat. No. 4 873 192 and the references cited therein herein incorporated by reference. Guidance as to appropriate amino acid substitutions that do not affect biological activity of the polypeptide of interest may be found in the model of Dayhoff et al. 1978 in Natl. Biomed. Res. Found. Washington D.C. herein incorporated by reference. Conservative substitutions such as exchanging one amino acid with another having similar properties may be preferred. Examples of conservative substitutions include but are not limited to GlyAla ValIleLeu AspGlu LysArg AsnGln and PheTrpTyr.

In constructing variants of the antagonist anti CD40 antibody polypeptide of interest modifications are made such that variants continue to possess the desired activity i.e. similar binding affinity and having the following characteristics 1 are capable of specifically binding to a human CD40 antigen expressed on the surface of a human cell 2 are free of significant agonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a normal human B cell and 3 exhibit antagonist activity when bound to a CD40 antigen on a malignant human B cell. Obviously any mutations made in the DNA encoding the variant polypeptide must not place the sequence out of reading frame and preferably will not create complementary regions that could produce secondary mRNA structure. See EP Patent Application Publication No. 75 444.

Biologically active variants of anti CD40 antibodies will generally have at least 70 preferably at least 80 more preferably about 90 to 95 or more and most preferably about 98 or more amino acid sequence identity to the amino acid sequence of the reference polypeptide molecule which serves as the basis for comparison. A biologically active variant of a reference antagonist anti CD40 antibody having the specificity and binding characteristics described herein may differ from the reference polypeptide by as few as 1 15 amino acids as few as 1 10 such as 6 10 as few as 5 as few as 4 3 2 or even 1 amino acid residue. By sequence identity is intended the same amino acid residues are found within the variant polypeptide and the polypeptide molecule that serves as a reference when a specified contiguous segment of the amino acid sequence of the variant is aligned and compared to the amino acid sequence of the reference molecule. The percentage sequence identity between two amino acid sequences is calculated by determining the number of positions at which the identical amino acid residue occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in the segment undergoing comparison to the reference molecule and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity.

For purposes of optimal alignment of the two sequences the contiguous segment of the amino acid sequence of the variants may have additional amino acid residues or deleted amino acid residues with respect to the amino acid sequence of the reference molecule. The contiguous segment used for comparison to the reference amino acid sequence will comprise at least twenty 20 contiguous amino acid residues and may be 30 40 50 100 or more residues. Corrections for increased sequence identity associated with inclusion of gaps in the variant s amino acid sequence can be made by assigning gap penalties. Methods of sequence alignment are well known in the art for both amino acid sequences and for the nucleotide sequences encoding amino acid sequences.

Thus the determination of percent identity between any two sequences can be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. One preferred non limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized for the comparison of sequences is the algorithm of Myers and Miller 1988 4 11 17. Such an algorithm is utilized in the ALIGN program version 2.0 which is part of the GCG sequence alignment software package. A PAM120 weight residue table a gap length penalty of 12 and a gap penalty of 4 can be used with the ALIGN program when comparing amino acid sequences. Another preferred nonlimiting example of a mathematical algorithm for use in comparing two sequences is the algorithm of Karlin and Altschul 1990 87 2264 modified as in Karlin and Altschul 1993 90 5873 5877. Such an algorithm is incorporated into the NBLAST and XBLAST programs of Altschul et al. 1990 215 403. BLAST nucleotide searches can be performed with the NBLAST program score 100 wordlength 12 to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to a nucleotide sequence encoding the polypeptide of interest. BLAST protein searches can be performed with the XBLAST program score 50 wordlength 3 to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to the polypeptide of interest. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes Gapped BLAST can be utilized as described in Altschul et al. 1997 25 3389. Alternatively PSI Blast can be used to perform an iterated search that detects distant relationships between molecules. See Altschul et al. 1997 supra. When utilizing BLAST Gapped BLAST and PSI Blast programs the default parameters of the respective programs e.g. XBLAST and NBLAST can be used. See the website at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. Also see the ALIGN program Dayhoff 1978 in 5 Suppl. 3 National Biomedical Research Foundation Washington D.C. and programs in the Wisconsin Sequence Analysis Package Version 8 available from Genetics Computer Group Madison Wis. for example the GAP program where default parameters of the programs are utilized.

When considering percentage of amino acid sequence identity some amino acid residue positions may differ as a result of conservative amino acid substitutions which do not affect properties of protein function. In these instances percent sequence identity may be adjusted upwards to account for the similarity in conservatively substituted amino acids. Such adjustments are well known in the art. See for example Myers and Miller 1988 4 11 17.

The precise chemical structure of a polypeptide capable of specifically binding CD40 and retaining antagonist activity particularly when bound to CD40 antigen on malignant B cells depends on a number of factors. As ionizable amino and carboxyl groups are present in the molecule a particular polypeptide may be obtained as an acidic or basic salt or in neutral form. All such preparations that retain their biological activity when placed in suitable environmental conditions are included in the definition of antagonist anti CD40 antibodies as used herein. Further the primary amino acid sequence of the polypeptide may be augmented by derivatization using sugar moieties glycosylation or by other supplementary molecules such as lipids phosphate acetyl groups and the like. It may also be augmented by conjugation with saccharides. Certain aspects of such augmentation are accomplished through post translational processing systems of the producing host other such modifications may be introduced in vitro. In any event such modifications are included in the definition of an anti CD40 antibody used herein so long as the antagonist properties of the anti CD40 antibody are not destroyed. It is expected that such modifications may quantitatively or qualitatively affect the activity either by enhancing or diminishing the activity of the polypeptide in the various assays. Further individual amino acid residues in the chain may be modified by oxidation reduction or other derivatization and the polypeptide may be cleaved to obtain fragments that retain activity. Such alterations that do not destroy antagonist activity do not remove the polypeptide sequence from the definition of anti CD40 antibodies of interest as used herein.

The art provides substantial guidance regarding the preparation and use of polypeptide variants. In preparing the anti CD40 antibody variants one of skill in the art can readily determine which modifications to the native protein nucleotide or amino acid sequence will result in a variant that is suitable for use as a therapeutically active component of a pharmaceutical composition used in the methods of the present invention.

Any pharmaceutical composition comprising an antagonist anti CD40 antibody as the therapeutically active component can be used in the methods of the invention. Thus liquid lyophilized or spray dried compositions comprising antagonist anti CD40 antibodies or variants thereof that are known in the art may be prepared as an aqueous or nonaqueous solution or suspension for subsequent administration to a subject in accordance with the methods of the invention. Each of these compositions will comprise anti CD40 antibodies or variants thereof as a therapeutically or prophylactically active component. By therapeutically or prophylactically active component is intended the anti CD40 antibody or variant thereof is specifically incorporated into the composition to bring about a desired therapeutic or prophylactic response with regard to treatment prevention or diagnosis of a disease or condition within a subject when the pharmaceutical composition is administered to that subject. Preferably the pharmaceutical compositions comprise appropriate stabilizing agents bulking agents or both to minimize problems associated with loss of protein stability and biological activity during preparation and storage.

Formulants may be added to pharmaceutical compositions comprising an anti CD40antibody of the invention. These formulants may include but are not limited to oils polymers vitamins carbohydrates amine acids salts buffers albumin surfactants or bulking agents. Preferably carbohydrates include sugar or sugar alcohols such as mono di or polysaccharides or water soluble glucans. The saccharides or glucans can include fructose glucose mannose sorbose xylose maltose sucrose dextran pullulan dextrin and cyclodextrin soluble starch hydroxyethyl starch and carboxymethylcellulose or mixtures thereof. Sugar alcohol is defined as a Cto Chydrocarbon having a hydroxyl group and includes galactitol inositol mannitol xylitol sorbitol glycerol and arabitol. These sugars or sugar alcohols may be used individually or in combination. The sugar or sugar alcohol concentration is between 1.0 and 7 w v. more preferably between 2.0 and 6.0 w v. Preferably amino acids include levorotary L forms of carnitine arginine and betaine however other amino acids may be added. Preferred polymers include polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP with an average molecular weight between 2 000 and 3 000 or polyethylene glycol PEG with an average molecular weight between 3 000 and 5 000. Surfactants that can be added to the formulation are shown in EP Nos. 270 799 and 268 110.

Additionally antibodies can be chemically modified by covalent conjugation to a polymer to increase their circulating half life for example. Preferred polymers and methods to attach them to peptides are shown in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 766 106 4 179 337 4 495 285 and 4 609 546 which are all hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. Preferred polymers are polyoxyethylated polyols and polyethylene glycol PEG . PEG is soluble in water at room temperature and has the general formula R O CH CH O R where R can be hydrogen or a protective group such as an alkyl or alkanol group. Preferably the protective group has between 1 and 8 carbons more preferably it is methyl. The symbol n is a positive integer preferably between 1 and 1 000 more preferably between 2 and 500. The PEG has a preferred average molecular weight between 1 000 and 40 000 more preferably between 2 000 and 20 000 most preferably between 3 000 and 12 000. Preferably PEG has at least one hydroxy group more preferably it is a terminal hydroxy group. It is this hydroxy group which is preferably activated to react with a free amino group on the inhibitor. However it will be understood that the type and amount of the reactive groups may be varied to achieve a covalently conjugated PEG antibody of the present invention.

Water soluble polyoxyethylated polyols are also useful in the present invention. They include polyoxyethylated sorbitol polyoxyethylated glucose polyoxyethylated glycerol POG and the like. POG is preferred. One reason is because the glycerol backbone of polyoxyethylated glycerol is the same backbone occurring naturally in for example animals and humans in mono di triglycerides. Therefore this branching would not necessarily be seen as a foreign agent in the body. The POG has a preferred molecular weight in the same range as PEG. The structure for POG is shown in Knauf et al. 1988 263 15064 15070 and a discussion of POG IL 2 conjugates is found in U.S. Pat. No. 4 766 106 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Another drug delivery system for increasing circulatory half life is the liposome. Methods of preparing liposome delivery systems are discussed in Gabizon et al. 1982 42 4734 Cafiso 1981 649 129 and Szoka 1980 9 467. Other drug delivery systems are known in the art and are described in e.g. Poznansky et al. 1980 R. L. Juliano ed. Oxford N.Y. pp. 253 315 Poznansky 1984 36 277.

A further embodiment of the invention is the use of antagonist anti CD40 antibodies for diagnostic monitoring of protein levels in tissue as part of a clinical testing procedure e.g. to determine the efficacy of a given treatment regimen. Detection can be facilitated by coupling the antibody to a detectable substance. Examples of detectable substances include various enzymes prosthetic groups fluorescent materials luminescent materials bioluminescent materials and radioactive materials. Examples of suitable enzymes include horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase galactosidase or acetylcholinesterase examples of suitable prosthetic group complexes include streptavidin biotin and avidin biotin examples of suitable fluorescent materials include umbelliferone fluorescein fluorescein isothiocyanate rhodamine dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein dansyl chloride or phycoerythrin an example of a luminescent material includes luminol examples of bioluminescent materials include luciferase luciferin and aequorin and examples of suitable radioactive material include I I S or H.

The antagonist anti CD40 antibodies can be used in combination with known chemotherapeutics and cytokines for the treatment of disease states comprising malignant B cells. For example the anti CD40 antibodies of the invention can be used in combination with cytokines such as interleukin 2 In another embodiment the anti CD40 antibodies of the invention can be used in combination with Rituximab IDEC C2B8 Rituxan IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corp. San Diego Calif. . Rituximab is a chimeric anti CD20 monoclonal antibody containing human IgG1 and kappa constant regions with murine variable regions isolated from a murine anti CD20 monoclonal antibody IDEC 2B8 Reff et al. 1994 83 435 445 .

The anti CD40 antibodies described herein can further be used to provide reagents e.g. labeled or labelable antibodies that can be used for example to identify cells expressing CD40. This can be very useful in determining the cell type of an unknown sample. Panels of monoclonal antibodies can be used to identify tissue by species and or by organ type. In a similar fashion these anti CD40 antibodies can be used to screen tissue culture cells for contamination i.e. screen for the presence of a mixture of CD40 expressing and non CD40 expressing cells in a culture .

The antagonist anti CD40 antibody used in the examples below is 15B8. 15B8 is a human IgGsubtype anti human CD40 monoclonal antibody generated by immunization of transgenic mice bearing the human IgG2 heavy chain locus and the human K light chain locus Xenomouse Abgenix . As shown by FACS analysis 15B8 binds specifically to human CD40 and cross reacts with CD40 expressed on the peripheral blood B cells from monkeys cynomologus rhesus and baboons and chimpanzees. 15B8 does not cross react with CD40 from non primate animal species nor does it bind to other members of the TNF receptor family as demonstrated by ELISA and FACS analysis. The binding affinity of 15B8 to human CD40 is 3.1 10M as determined by Biacore assay.

A competitive binding assay was performed to determine if direct competition for CD40 binding is a mechanism of the antagonist activity of 15B8.

A line of Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cells containing the gene encoding CD40L and expressing CD40L on the cell surface was generated. The CD40L expressing CHO cells were incubated with purified CD40 before and after incubation of CD40 with 15B8. Fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC labeled anti huIgG was added to the cells. FACS analysis was performed to detect 15B8 bound to the CHO cells via CD40. The binding of 15B8 to CD40 inhibited the subsequent binding of CD40L to CD40. However when CD40L and CD40 were incubated together prior to the addition of 15B8 15B8 was subsequently able to bind CD40. While not bound by any mechanism of action this suggests that 15B8 does not compete directly with CD40L for binding sites on CD40 and that the binding of 15B8 to CD40 possibly caused conformational changes in the CD40 molecule that prevented the binding of CD40L to CD40. The putative structural alteration of the CD40 molecule induced by 15B8 binding could also deliver a negative signal to the cell causing the antagonist effect.

To demonstrate the potential efficacy of 15B8 in a preclinical in vitro model of non Hodgkin s lymphoma NHL 15B8 was tested using malignant B cells NHL cells obtained from NHL patients who were either Rituximab treated or naive. Rituximab IDEC C2B8 Rituxan IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corp. San Diego Calif. is an Anti CD20 monoclonal antibody for the treatment of relapsed or refractory low grade or follicular NHL.

Since primary lymphoma cells do not proliferate in regular culture medium and undergo apoptosis after a few days in culture tumor cells were co cultured with irradiated CD40 ligand CD40L transfected feeder cells Arpin et al. 1995 268 720 722 in the presence or absence of the B cell growth factor interleukin 4 IL 4 . Antibodies agonist anti CD40 MS81 antagonist anti CD40 15B8 or isotype control human IgG2 huIgG2 of indicated concentration from 0.01 g ml to 10 g ml were then added to the culture. Following incubation at 37 C. for 48 hours cultured cells were pulsed with H thymidine for 18 hours. The cells were then harvested and analyzed for the amount of H thymidine incorporation Schultze et al. 1995 92 8200 8204 . All sample conditions were in triplicate.

In these NHL cell primary culture assays 15B8 alone or in combination with IL 4 did not stimulate NHL cells to proliferate in vitro. In contrast an agonist anti CD40 MS81 induced NHL cell proliferation under the same conditions. 15B8 showed statistically significant inhibition of NHL cell proliferation stimulated by CD40L P 0.05 and by CD40L plus IL 4 P

There are two types of preclinical models that are currently used for evaluation of human antigen specific monoclonal antibodies Mabs in therapeutic development for lymphomas. One model is the xenograft mouse in vivo model where the EBV transformed lymphoma cell lines such as Daudi Burkitt lymphoma or Raji Burkitt lymphoma cells are xenografted into SCID Nude mice. The defects of these models are that the results only reflect effects on the particular immortal cell line which is derived from one EBV transformed cell. It is known that Burkitt lymphoma cells are lymphoblastoid cells Ambinder et al. 1999 99 27 45 Quintanilla Martinez et al. 1998 30 111 121 Klein 1996 43 97 105 while the lymphoma cells from NHL patients are believed to be at the mature B cell stage Ghia et al. 2000 79 157 173 . EBV transformation of B cells results in changes of many components in the CD40 signaling pathway Uchida et al. 1999 286 300 303 Farrell et al. 1997 51 258 267 . In contrast to CD40 signaling in NHL cells and normal B cells CD40 signaling leads to growth arrest in EBV transformed Burkitt lymphoma cell lines Fukuda et al. 2000 13 215 229 Baker et al. 1998 92 2830 2843 . Thus the results of testing an antagonist anti CD40 MAb 15B8 in the xenograft models will not be able to predict the response to the antibody 15B8 by NHL patients.

The other model is the in vitro growth inhibition assay of lymphoma cells from NHL patients which was used above. The advantage is that the results predicate the sensitivity of the lymphoma cells from NHL patients to the agent 15B8 tested. However the results are obtained from in vitro study under defined conditions. A previous published study reported that a rat anti mouse CD40 which failed to induce ADCC and CDC in vitro showed good efficacy in two syngeneic mouse B lymphoma models BCL1 and A31 Tutt et al. 1998 161 3176 3185 . The anti tumor effect of the anti mouse CD40 occurred slower in time than an anti Id tested. One of the hypotheses was that the anti mouse CD40 operated by blocking critical growth signals that are dependent on the expression of surface CD40 not direct signaling like anti Id in the mouse models tested. When tested 15B8 did not bind to the Fc receptors in vitro and failed to induce ADCC and CDC in vitro data not shown since it is of human IgG2 subtype. 15B8 has similar properties to the rat anti mouse CD40. These data support the hypothesis that 15B8 will be beneficial to NHL patients especially Rituxan resistant patients.

To test if 15B8 provides the growth signal like CD40L in vitro B cells from tumor infiltrated lymph nodes NHL cells were obtained from one antibody na ve one Rituximab sensitive and one Rituximab resistant NHL patient. The NHL cells were studied under four different culture conditions no added antibody medium addition of human isotype antibody IgG2 control referred to as huIgG2 addition of anti CD40 antibody MS81 agonistic antibody and addition of 15B8. All antibodies were tested at 1 2 and 5 g ml in the presence or absence of IL 4. The NHL cells from two patients were cultured as described above under the same four conditions in the presence of IL 4 2 ng ml . B cell proliferation was measured by H thymidine incorporation as described above.

Anti CD40 antibody 15B8 at concentrations of 1 2 and 5 g ml did not stimulate NHL cells to proliferate in either the absence or presence of IL 4. In contrast an agonistic anti CD40 antibody MS81 tested at the same concentration stimulated NHL cell proliferation both in the presence and absence of IL 4 in all patient samples. Representative results from one patient are shown in . Results from the NHL cells from the two patients in the presence of IL 4 and three patients in the absence of IL 4 were comparable. These results indicate that 15B8 is not an agonist anti CD40 antibody and does not stimulate proliferation of NHL cells from Rituximab sensitive na ve or Rituximab resistant NHL patients in vitro.

FACS analysis of the NHL cells was performed with either a direct labeled 15B8 FITC or 15B8 plus anti huIgG2 FITC to confirm that CD40 is expressed on the surface the NHL cells tested and that 15B8 binds to the NHL cells. The NHL cells from 2 Rituximab sensitive and 4 Rituximab resistant patients 6 patients in total were tested. NHL cells from all the patients expressed CD40 and bound 15B8. The 15B8 binding positive cell population in any given patient was about 66 to 91 .

To evaluate the ability of 15B8 to block the growth signal provided by CD40L in vitro NHL cells from patients were cultured as described above in suspension over CD40L expressing feeder cells under four different conditions no added antibody medium addition of human isotype antibody IgG2 control addition of anti CD40 antibody MS81 agonistic antibody and addition of 15B8. All antibodies were added at concentrations of 1 2 and 5 g ml in the presence or the absence of IL 4. The NHL cells from 1 antibody na ve 2 Rituximab sensitive and 5 Rituximab resistant patients 8 patients in total were cultured under the same four conditions as described above in the presence of IL 4 2 ng ml . NHL cells from 3 Rituximab sensitive and 4 Rituximab resistant patients 7 patients in total were cultured under similar conditions in the absence of IL 4. The NHL cell proliferation was measured by H thymidine incorporation.

Table 1 below shows the inhibitory effect of 15B8 on the proliferation of NHL cells from 2 Rituximab sensitive data from one patient reproducible in two separate experiments and 4 Rituximab resistant patients 6 patients in total stimulated by CD40L alone in vitro. Representative results from the cells of one patient A are shown in . 15B8 inhibited the proliferation by about 12 68 when compared to the control in the 6 patients. The degree of inhibition by 15B8 varied depending on patient samples and the dose level of 15B8. Statistical analysis of the data from 6 of the 7 patient samples tested shows that the inhibition of CD40L stimulated NHL cell proliferation by 15B8 is significant at 1 g ml p 0.05 . There is a statistically significant dose response p

Table 2 below shows the inhibitory effect of 15B8 on proliferation of NHL cells from 1 antibody na ve 2 Rituximab sensitive data from both patient samples were repeated twice reproducibly and 5 Rituximab resistant patients 8 patients in total stimulated by both CD40L and IL 4 in vitro. At 1 g ml level 15B8 significantly p

To determine if it is an agonist or antagonist anti CD40 15B8 was tested in several in vitro assays described below using cells from humans and five different primate species including chimpanzee chimp marmoset cynomologus monkey rhesus monkey and baboon.

Upon B cell activation a number of cell surface proteins are up regulated Denton et al. 1998 2 6 15 Evans et al. 2000 164 688 697 Noelle 1998 49 17 22 Lederman et al. 1996 3 77 86 . To confirm 15B8 does not activate human B cells and does not induce an agonist signal when bound to CD40 its ability to up regulate B cell activation markers was tested by FACS analysis using purified human PBMC. There was no up regulation in the expression of activation markers such as CD25 CD69 CD86 HLA DR and ICAM 1 CD54 in 15B8 treated human B cells Table 4 . The level of these markers was similar when cells were treated with either 15B8 or huIgG2 control Table 4 . In contrast CD69 was consistently up regulated by CD40L in PBMC samples from 3 healthy volunteers tested.

Additional consequences of B cell activation are up regulation of surface FasL and apoptosis Revy et al. 1998 28 3648 3654 Carey et al. 2000 176 105 115 Ju et al. 1999 18 485 513 Baumgarth 2000 176 171 180 . To confirm 15B8 is not an agonistic anti CD40 antibody its ability to induce FasL expression and apoptosis of human B cells was also tested. Annexin V staining on the cell surface can be used as an early apoptosis marker Ju et al. 1999 18 485 513 . Human B cells were purified from peripheral blood and incubated with 15B8. FACS analysis was used to detect cells with positive staining of Annexin V and anti FasL. There was no significant difference on the surface staining by the two reagents between cells incubated with 15B8 or the isotype control huIgG2 antibody data not shown . This result shows that 15B8 does not induce apoptosis of human B cells in vitro. These data provide further evidence that 15B8 is not an agonist anti CD40 antibody for human B cells.

15B8 cross reacts with CD40 expressed on the surface of CD20 positive PBMCs from primates. To test if 15B8 can activate CD40 on B cells from other primate species such as chimpanzees and marmosets the same proliferation assays were carried out using freshly isolated chimp and marmoset PBMC from 15 chimps and 5 marmosets. Similar to the results with the human PBMC 15B8 did not stimulate the proliferation in vitro of PBMCs from 6 chimps and 5 marmosets at 1 and 5 g ml concentration Table 3 above . 15B8 also did not up regulate the expression of activation marker CD69 in the three chimp PBMC samples tested Table 4 . 15B8 did not show any effect on FasL expression and apoptosis in chimp PBMCs similar to human PBMC controls after 24 and 48 hours stimulation in vitro in all samples from 6 chimps tested data not shown .

Cross linking 15B8 by a secondary antibody fixed to plastic surface did not increase its potency to stimulate B cell proliferation data not shown . When tested using PBMCs from humans and chimps in this cross linking assay 15B8 did not stimulate proliferation of the cells. This observation indicates a reduced risk of 15B8 being stimulative i.e. agonistic or having agonist activity for B cell proliferation in case of induction of anti 15B8 HAHA or Fc binding to other Fc receptor expressing cells when administered in vivo.

In summary 15B8 does not initiate an activation signal in human B cells PBMCs nor in chimp marmoset PBMCs in vitro. Therefore 15B8 is not an agonist anti CD40 antibody in human chimps and marmosets.

To determine if 15B8 is an antagonist anti CD40 its ability to inhibit CD40 CD40L interaction was tested in a CD40L mediated human B cell proliferation assay Kwekkeboom et al. 1993 79 439 444 . A transfected CHO cell line expressing human CD40L was used to stimulate the proliferation of purified human peripheral blood B cells or PBMCs. Human B cells from 10 healthy volunteers and human PBMCs from 3 healthy volunteers were tested. In all the samples tested 15B8 suppressed CD40L expressing CHO cells mediated proliferation by 42 88 at concentration range from 0.2 5 g ml Table 5 . shows a representative dose response curve using cells from 3 individuals. The no effect dose of 15B8 is 0.008 g ml and reaches saturating dose at 0.2 g ml . This observation indicates that 15B8 as an antagonist anti CD40 antibody can inhibit the growth signals in human B cells and PBMCs provided by cell surface expressed CD40L.

Additional assays were carried out using freshly isolated PBMCs from 9 chimps and 3 marmosets. As with the human PBMCs 15B8 was able to inhibit the proliferation of chimp and marmoset PBMCs stimulated by CD40L expressing CHO cells at 1 g ml concentration level Table 5 above . The inhibition by 15B8 was approximately 55 73 and 68 84 in PBMC samples from 3 chimps and 3 marmosets respectively Table 5 above .

Activated B cells undergo a number of biological responses such as proliferation and antibody production. The activation of B cells by T cell dependent antigens involves CD4 T helper Th cells. This T cell helper process is mediated by a concerted effort of the interaction of CD40 on the B cells with the CD40L on the Th cells surface together with the interactions of other co stimulatory factors and cytokines Denton et al. 1998 2 6 15 Evans et al. 2000 164 688 697 Noelle 1998 49 17 22 Lederman et al. 1996 3 77 86 Mackey et al. 1998 63 418 428 . To test if 15B8 can block T helper cell mediated B cell antibody production purified human peripheral blood B cells were cultured in the presence of purified irradiated T cells activated with anti CD3 antibody. An ELISA assay was used to measure the level of IgM production. 15B8 reduced IgM production by about 30 in this assay data not shown . Therefore 15B8 can reduce T cell mediated B cell immunoglobulin production.

In summary 15B8 inhibits CD40L induced B cell PBMC proliferation in human chimp and marmoset and inhibits T cell induced antibody production by purified human B cells in vitro. These data demonstrate that 15B8 is an antagonist anti CD40 antibody in human B cells and PBMCs from chimps and marmosets in vitro.

FACS analysis demonstrates that 15B8 binds to CD40 expressed on the surface of B cells from peripheral blood of monkeys rhesus cynomologus and baboon . The effect of 15B8 on freshly isolated cynomologus monkey PBMC was tested in the same proliferation assay described above for human and chimps Coligan et al. 1998 13 12 Kwekkeboom et al. 1993 79 439 444 . In contrast to human PBMC 15B8 was found to stimulate cynomologus monkey PBMC to proliferate in vitro as measured by H methyl thymidine incorporation Table 6 below . At 1 g ml level 15B8 stimulated the proliferation of the PBMCs by 6 fold to 129.7 fold compare to the huIgG2 control in the twenty two samples from 17 monkeys tested samples from 5 monkeys were tested twice Table 6 below . At 5 g ml level the proliferation stimulated by 15B8 is 14 fold to 24 fold in four samples from 2 monkeys and about 1.25 fold or 1.85 fold in two samples from 2 monkeys Table 6 . This suggests that at concentration level of 5 g ml 15B8 may be at the limit of over saturating dose for its proliferation stimulatory effect on PBMCs from cynomologus monkey. Further FACS analysis of B cells for activation status by surface markers indicated that 15B8 induces CD69 CD86 and HLA DR up regulation on monkey B cells Table 7 . These data suggest that 15B8 is an agonist antibody to CD40 expressed on peripheral blood B cells from cynomologus monkeys in vitro.

To confirm that this agonistic effect of 15B8 is not cynomologus monkey specific the same assays were performed using PBMCs from rhesus monkeys and baboons. Similar results to that obtained from cells of cynomologus monkeys were observed as shown in Table 6. 15B8 stimulated proliferation of PBMCs from rhesus monkeys and baboons in vitro Table 6 . The agonist activity of 15B8 is shown using the PBMCs from 5 rhesus monkeys and 3 baboons Table 6 .

15B8 can stimulate proliferation and up regulation of cell surface activation markers in PBMCs from cynomologus monkeys in vitro. To determine if 15B8 is an agonist anti CD40 antibody in these monkeys in vivo a study was performed to examine the biodistribution of 15B8 and the fate of affected peripheral B cells i.e. extravasation apoptosis activation status or complement lysis Biodistribution of 15B8.72 Antibodies following Intravenous Administration to Non Na ve Male and Female Cynomologus Monkeys SNBL.218.3 SNBL USA .

Cynomologus monkeys 1 female and 2 males received a single intravenous administration of 3 mg kg 15B8. The following parameters were monitored clinical signs food consumption body weight pharmacokinetics serum complement CHSO flow cytometry for B cells including apoptotic B cells T cells and monocytes. B cell CD40 receptor saturation with 15B8 was also measured. Animals were necropsied 24 hours after receiving the single dose of 15B8 and standard organs were weighed. Pre study surgical biopsies of spleen and axillary lymph nodes were taken to serve as baseline controls. At necropsy lymphoid and non lymphoid tissues were sampled for histopathology and immunohistochemistry. Tissues were immunostained with antibodies against CD3 CD40 CD20 CD27 and CD38 antigens. Preliminary results of the study are discussed below.

All animals survived to the scheduled necropsy and there were no effects on food consumption body weight CHSO levels nor on peripheral blood T cell or monocyte counts. There were no changes in organ weights. Microscopic examination of the spleen showed moderate diffuse follicular hyperplasia with necrosis and or neutrophilic infiltrates in the germinal centers of all 15B8 treated animals. Examination of mesenteric and inguinal lymph nodes revealed mild follicular hyperplasia in 2 out of 3 animals. No treatment related microscopic effects were seen in other tissues liver skin brain thyroid lung bone marrow adrenal gland and kidney .

Immunostaining with CD20 CD27 CD40 and CD86 antibodies revealed increases in these markers in splenic and lymph node follicles which correlated with the follicular hyperplasia seen in these same tissues. Increased staining of CD20 and CD40 were limited to the spleen and lymph node while there was some additional staining of hepatic tissue with CD27 and of hepatic Kupffer cells and inflammatory cells by CD86. CD86 staining was also increased in thymic medullary cells and adrenal interstitial leukocytes. There were no changes in the immunostaining of CD3 in 15B8 treated animals as compared to controls.

These findings indicate that a single dose of 3 mg kg of 15B8 administered to cynomologus monkey can cause proliferation of lymphoid follicles and or redistribution of B cells from the peripheral blood in spleen and lymph nodes within a 24 hour period. Antibodies to CD20 CD27 CD40 and CD86 recognize antigens expressed on B cells and or activated B cells along with recognition of other cell types. Increased numbers of cells expressing these antigens were seen in the spleen and lymph nodes of treated animals which suggests an increase in the number of activated CD20 B cells. This study suggests that 15B8 is an agonist anti CD40 antibody in cynomologus monkey in vivo. The results obtained in vivo and in vivo are consistent in cynomologus monkeys.

Two groups of 3 male chimpanzees received either 0.03 mg kg or 3 mg kg 15B8 by intravenous administration. Serum 15B8 concentrations and peripheral B cell numbers were monitored immediately after 15B8 administration and through day 29 post dose. The results of the experiment are shown in . After administration of 15B8 at 3 mg kg serum 15B8 concentrations declined in a triphasic pattern involving a short distribution phase a log linear elimination phase and a non linear elimination phase. The non linear elimination phase predominated at concentrations below approximately 10 g ml. The half life during the log linear phase was approximately four days. Peripheral B cell numbers decreased immediately after 15B8 administration and recovered within 3 4 weeks. 15B8 was detected in serum bound to surface CD40 receptors on circulating B cells. The extent of binding appeared to remain relatively unchanged from Day 2 through 8 post dose and declined subsequently through Day 29 post dose.

After administration of 15B8 at 0.03 mg kg B cells appeared to decline slightly by 30 minutes but returned to pre dose values within 4 hours. Serum 15B8 concentrations were below the level of detection at 30 minutes after dosing.

The concentrations of human IgM and IgG are estimated by ELISA assays. 96 well ELISA plates are coated with 4 g ml anti human IgG mAb or with 1.2 g ml anti human IgM mAb in 0.05 M carbonate buffer pH 9.6 for 16 hours at 4 C. Plates are washed three times with PBS 0.05 Tween 20 PBS Tween and saturated with BSA for one hour. After two washes the plates are incubated for one hour at 37 C. with different dilutions of the test samples. After three washes bound Ig is detected by incubation for one hour at 37 C. with 1 g ml peroxidase labeled mouse anti human IgG mAb or mouse anti human IgM mAb. Plates are washed four times and bound peroxidase activity is revealed by the addition of o phenylenediamine as a substrate.

The results suggest that 15B8 is an agonistic anti CD40 antibody in cynomologus and rhesus monkeys and baboons and an antagonistic antibody in humans chimpanzees and marmosets. The experiments that have been completed are summarized in the tables below.

15B8 is an anti human CD40 specific monoclonal antibody with human IgGsubtype and with cross reactivity to CD40 from non human primates only. Through extensive in vitro testing 15B8 was shown to be an antagonist anti CD40 to the CD40 expressed on human B cells PBMCs from human chimp and marmoset. However 15B8 was shown to have agonist activity when bound to the CD40 expressed on PBMCs from monkeys cynomologus rhesus and baboon in vitro. This agonist activity of 15B8 was confirmed in vivo in cynomologus monkeys. When tested in primary culture of lymphoma cells from Rituxan sensitive and resistant NHL patients 15B8 has no agonist activity in the presence or absence of IL 4. 15B8 can also inhibit CD40L stimulated growth of the lymphoma cells from the similar group of patients under both conditions. 15B8 has the potential to modify B cell malignancies such as non Hodgkin s lymphoma NHL where the CD40 CD40L pathway may play a role in the pathogenesis of the diseases.

All publications and patent applications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the level of those skilled in the art to which this invention pertains. All publications and patent applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

