---

title: Mind map with data feed linkage and social network interaction
abstract: Embodiments of the disclosed technology comprise a method of augmenting a mind map of a plurality of objects based on at least one data feed. The method comprises providing an interface which contains visual representations of objects and associates semantic data with these objects. The interface allows for a user to access data from a data feed, and it analyzes these data in order to identify additional objects which may be semantically related to the object. A visual representation of the additional object is then augmented with a connector to the original object. Information about the relationships of the objects may be certified automatically or manually.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08380716&OS=08380716&RS=08380716
owner: 
number: 08380716
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100513
---
The disclosed technology relates generally to mind maps. More specifically the disclosed technology relates to semantic communications between mind maps and third party data sources and networks.

Social networking and other networked tools have become an increasingly important part of professional and personal lives. As online tools have grown in popularity these tools have allowed web users to generate access and link more and richer data sources. With this growth these tools have grown in their potential to provide insight into relationships between humans and concepts. A problem that is presented by these increasingly rich webs of information is their complexity.

Among the traditional tools utilized in organizing access to information networks are search engines. Common electronic information search engines and search technology providers include AOL Northern Light Yahoo Google AlltheWeb Infoseek Teoma AltaVista AskJeeves HotBot Inktomi LookSmart Lycos FAST Overture About.com Roadrunner various Microsoft search engines FindWhat.com E spotting Search.com and A9.com. Typically these search engines provide textual key word word and or text based searching as human interface options for access to associated electronic information. Incorporation of Boolean connector such as and or not etc. functionality and or wild characters such as or have proven beneficial. It is common for web browsers such as Mozilla Firefox Google Chrome Apple Safari and so forth to incorporate an interface or interfaces to one or more of these search engines.

As the numbers and types of information in searchable networks have expanded they have become increasingly difficult for the web users who have created them to understand. This problem has become exacerbated through the explosion of online information associated with Web 2.0 technologies. Web 2.0 is a catch all term for a group of technologies which include web applications that facilitate interactive information sharing interoperability user centered design and collaboration on the Internet. Examples of Web 2.0 include web based communities hosted services web applications social networking sites video sharing sites wikis and blogs. A Web 2.0 site allows its users to interact with other users or to change website content in contrast to non interactive websites where users are limited to the passive viewing of information that is provided to them.

Individuals community members employees shareholders and customers are all impacted by the development of these complex online networks. Locating accessing and utilizing all of this electronic information sometimes presents a daunting task. This is especially true with regard to non structured electronic information that is arranged in the ad hoc webs generated as web user s link to each other s information. Unlike the almost universally utilized Dewey decimal system for locating items in physical libraries a diverse array of standards has been introduced for accessing electronic information.

These networks can be built by web users interacting with digital networks that transmit and receive many different media and messages. When uploaded these media and messages can become linked with the web user s online profiles and interests. As different web users link to other s profiles and data rich networks are created. Typically the information in these networks is simply listed in chronological order. Trying to follow a page of updates by hundreds of friends results in a disorganized and never ending list of content with no real structure in which to make sense of all the data. Still further organizing and distilling this information is a difficult and unsolved task in the art.

Accordingly there exists the need for an improved electronic information organization and access system that facilitates quick and efficient information gathering and understanding for networks of data created by concepts pages and data sources over the Internet.

The disclosed technology described herein addresses a need unfulfilled in the prior art by providing an electronic information visualization and access method that facilitates quick and efficient visualization of networks created by concepts pages and data sources over the Internet.

Accordingly it is an object of the disclosed technology to provide an improved electronic visualization and access method which will encourage visualization and analysis of the complex relationships created by Web 2.0 tools such as online encyclopedias online question and answer services e.g. Yahoo Answers and social networking platforms e.g. Facebook and LinkedIn .

It is also an object of the disclosed technology to provide an improved electronic visualization and access system which is automatically updatable or constantly or persistently updated defined as at least as often as new data becomes available in order to reflect changes made to the data sources which feed data to a visualization system of the disclosed technology.

It is a further object of the disclosed technology to provide an improved electronic visualization and access system which uses semantic data to verify data feed information and to develop visualizations of rich data types that include web pages and other sources that are constantly changing.

Therefore provided herein is a method for mapping semantic data using an electronic information visualization and access method that facilitates quick and efficient visualization of networks created by concepts pages and data sources over the Internet.

In an embodiment of the disclosed technology a method of augmenting a mind map based on at least one data feed accessed via a network node follows the foregoing steps. First a visual representation of an object is generated and exhibited. An object as used in this disclosure refers to a concept idea goal person location or data file. Next semantic data are associated with the object. A control is then provided that is operable to access data from a data feed via a network node defined as a point on a electronic network . The data feed is one in which is provided generally by a third party over a network cloud and comprising in some embodiments an updating stream of data. This stream of data is appendable by a user of the disclosed technology or by a plethora of third parties. Examples include a social networking profile with comments and the like or an article with links to others. A control as used in this disclosure refers to a component of the interface which allows a user to initiate some action manually typically by the click of a mouse button or keystroke. An output of the data feed is then analyzed in order to identify additional objects which may be semantically related to the original object. The visual representation of the original object is then augmented with a connector which connects the original object and the additional object.

In an embodiment of a method of the disclosed technology the step of identifying additional objects may also prompt a user with a related object imported from another mind map. The source of that related object may be signified by visual indicia which accompanies the visual representation of the related object.

In one embodiment of a method of the disclosed technology an additional step of certifying also known as disambiguating the semantic data which corresponds to the object. The certification may be carried out automatically using a data source or manually by a user. In another embodiment the certification step may be performed by using an object found in another mind map as a data source for certifying the semantic data. Some visual indicia may be included with the visual representation of the object in order to signify whether the corresponding semantic data has been certified and which certification data source was use. The certification data source may include but is not limited to a hypertext markup language HTML document a global navigation satellite system receiver or a storage medium.

In another embodiment a similar icon may be used to signify the type of association one object forms with another. In other words it may contain information which classifies the type of interrelation between the two objects that are linked. A further embodiment of a method of the disclosed technology automatically assigns a type of association to the connector using semantic data. An alternative embodiment allows a type of association to be assigned manually by a user.

In yet another embodiment of a method of the disclosed technology an additional step of arranging the plurality of objects in a hierarchical fashion based on the interdependency of the original object with at least one additional object. This embodiment may further comprise the step of centralizing an object which possesses a greater number of connectors. Thus creating a hierarchical or graph rhizome structure where the object with the most associated objects is centered or the connectors are emboldened based on the number of connections.

In yet a further embodiment of a method of the disclosed technology an additional step of adding semantic information corresponding to the object by way of classifying the object as a member of a class is disclosed. The class also has semantic information associated with it. In one embodiment of the disclosed technology the class contains or comprises data associated with individual people that is imported from a social networking platform. In an alternative embodiment of the disclosed technology the class contains or comprises information regarding geographic locations.

In another embodiment of a method of the disclosed technology the connector contains information indicative of the type of association of which it is representative.

In yet another embodiment the data feed comprises or contains information associated with a person imported from a third party social networking platform. In this embodiment a method of the disclosed technology involves one or a plurality of the following additional steps. The social networking platform data may be used to update a visual representation of interconnected or semantically linked data by importing new data as it becomes available from the third party social networking platform. Then the new data are automatically mapped to the interface by creating a new object with a corresponding new visual representation thereof. New semantic data and a new visual representation will then be associated with the new object. Furthermore a new connector will be provided to link the new object with a pre existing object.

Another method of providing a visual representation of a plurality of objects follows the foregoing steps. First an interface is provided that is operable to generate a visual representation of a first thoughtbubble. A thoughtbubble as used in this disclosure is a visual representation of an object or concept which contains semantic data associated with the object. The thoughtbubble may be representative of a concept idea goal person location or file. This first thoughtbubble has semantic data associated with it. Next a visual representation of a second thoughtbubble is generated. The second thoughtbubble also has semantic data associated with it. Subsequently an interface is provided that is operable to generate a connector between the first thoughtbubble and the second thoughtbubble. A connector is then generated and contains associated semantic data as well. Next the semantic data associated with one or both of the thoughtbubbles is updated to reflect the semantic data associated with the connector. Now the semantic data associated with the first thoughtbubble is updated based on the semantic data associated with the second thoughtbubble. An operable means for accessing data from a data feed is then provided. The data feed produces a result which is then analyzed for information that is semantically related to each of the thoughtbubbles. Finally a visual representation is augmented for each of the thoughtbubbles. It contains or comprises a visual indicator which is representative of the interdependency of the thoughtbubbles with respect to each other.

Still further in accordance with any of the embodiments described above by way of interacting with said visual representation of an object a response to data received from a social networking platform data feed or new data to be injected into a social networking platform may be created through the visual representation provided in embodiments of the disclosed technology. That is a thoughtbubble or visualization may be interacted with to instruct a social networking platform to augment the data feed or data on the social network with data provided during the interaction with the thoughtbubble or visualization.

In accordance with these and other objects which will become apparent hereinafter the disclosed technology will now be described with particular reference to the drawings.

A better understanding of the disclosed technology will be obtained from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the drawings and the attached claims.

Embodiments of the disclosed technology provide a method of augmenting a mind map of a plurality of objects based on at least one data feed. The method comprises or consists of providing an interface which contains visual representations of objects and associates semantic data with these objects. The interface allows for a user to access data from a data feed and it analyzes these data in order to identify additional objects which may be semantically related to the object. A visual representation of the additional object is then augmented with a connector to the original object. Information about the relationships of the objects may be corroborated automatically or manually

With reference now to the drawings a method is shown for augmenting a mind map based on at least one data feed using an interface and associated semantic data.

In the example shown in the visual representation is representative of the object Panamericana road trip. In this particular example the object is an idea or could possibly also be referred to as a concept or goal. Referring back to additional visual representations of objects are also generated and exhibited. Element number points to the visual representation prep work but in this specification element number collectively refers to all of the additional representations i.e. adventure people I know etc. . . . . In this example these objects are in some way associated with the original object Panamericana road trip. However this does not necessarily have to be the case. Any concept idea goal person location or file may be the basis of a visual representation of an object. As will become apparent with reference to the subsequent figures the less important objects will eventually become more de centralized with regard to the other objects.

Referring still to each of the objects will have semantic content data associated with them. Semantic content as used in this disclosure generally refers to data or a concept associated with an object which describes a characteristic or feature of the object itself. Semantic data can be textual content representative of an idea a goal an association with another object a source of information or textual description of an object. Semantic data may also be an image audio video document feed or any other file type which may be stored on a local or remote drive. Semantic data in the form of a source of information may be a rich text field or concept such as data from Wikipedia online mapping tools online social networks e.g. Facebook or any other web based information resource or web link thereof.

Semantic content data in embodiments of the disclosed technology is assigned to an object by a user via the interface or programmatically through a data feed or some other data source. A data feed involves the transfer of data from one or more data sources via a network node and a communication channel. A data feed may be an RSS data feed Really Simple Syndication as is known in the art a data feed on a social network associated with a person group e.g. people who are fans of eggs with multiple yolks or in the tautology club or application e.g. a Farmville or other game . A data feed may include a database the contents of a hard drive a web page with dynamic content a web service a satellite information service such a global positioning system GPS a wireless data source or any other source. Some examples of a web based data feed may include a feed of Wikipedia articles or updates thereto social networking platforms e.g. Facebook or LinkedIn and messages to a user or responses to a comment link or the like online maps e.g. Google Maps or other geographic location data associated with a class or object and so forth.

Such data feeds may be associated automatically or manually with an object represented in the mind map. For example referring still to the visual representation of the object entitled Guatemala may programmatically associate encyclopedic data from a data source such as an online encyclopedic reference e.g. Wikipedia available at the time of this writing whereby an encyclopedia entry regarding the country of Guatemala will be automatically linked to the visual representation of the object. The launching of a document such as a HyperText Markup Language HTML document in the form of an encyclopedia entry is done by way of a user initiated control which will be explained further in the detailed description with reference to . In the instance in which an object refers to a person a third party social networking platform may comprise one or more of the data feeds and data sources associated with that object. For example referring still to the visual representation entitled Claudia may programmatically assign semantic data associated with a person named Claudia from a third party social networking platform e.g. a friend or 1degree connection on a social networking platform. The type of data imported and assigned to the object may include an image of Claudia contained in a social networking profile or other online profile for Claudia a text document containing Claudia s resume and or text containing her contact information background interests etc. The type of semantic data to be imported depends on a user s preferences and is configured by the user. For instance an employment occupational mind map may only include work related and contact information for a given person or be filtered in another manner as desired.

The semantic content data associated with various objects is in embodiments of the disclosed technology continuously or persistently as available or at regular time intervals such as 15 or 30 seconds updated so long as the data sources and data feeds are accessible. In this way the mind web is always up to date and contains real time data. For example a person may change a hypertext markup language document associated with him her on his her social networking profile to reflect changes to his her occupational status. If this profile is a data feed assigned to an object representative of that person in a mind web the changed information will sync to the object automatically in the visualization thereof.

With reference now to connectors or links between the various visual representations of objects are shown. The visual representations and of objects can have associated connectors that link them to other objects data feeds or data sources. When visual representations and of objects are displayed their associated connectors can also be displayed in order to represent a set of linked items as a web. The connectors are augmented manually by the user or may be augmented automatically using semantic data associated with each of the objects.

The connectors likewise may contain associated semantic data themselves. Connectors can have associated weights that indicate the strength of the connection between two or more items. For example a connector s weight or importance may be represented by a thicker line a line of a certain color or a line of a certain style i.e. dotted . Moreover a connector can also possess a visual trait which is indicative of the nature of interrelation between objects of which it is representative. Examples of the types of associations may include is the cause for follows after influences helps with and is alternative to. 

Another feature of the objects and connectors of the method of the disclosed technology is the ability of the interface to certify user entered semantic data using one or more data sources. An object which possesses associated certified content is disambiguated by determining which third party content should be related and how it is related. The data sources which certify semantic data are comparable to those which are used as automatic data feeds i.e. from an online encyclopedia or reference site social network etc. An example of certification of data could be the instance in which a user manually enters contact information about an individual into a visual representation of an object representing that individual. The interface may be configured to certify such information using a third party social networking database. Upon certifying the contact information on the individual s social networking profile the visual representation of the object may contain an icon containing for example Facebook.com s trademarked white F within a blue square. Such an icon indicates to a user that information contained within a given object has been certified using Facebook.com as a data source. Other examples include certifying locations using an online map as a data source. Still further once this is accomplished related data may be added which is pulled down from the data source. That is when adding and certifying Guatemala or any other object to a mind map and semantic data or another object included rivers then rivers within Guatemala by way of example may be added appropriately to the mind map and connected as will be discussed further below.

The example shown in also makes apparent another feature of an embodiment of the method of the disclosed technology. This feature is a step of the method in which the link weight of a certain object lends credence to the size and location of its respective visual representation. Link weight as used in this specification refers to the number of connectors a given object possesses. In other words an object with a greater number of connections to other objects has a greater link weight and thus becomes more centralized within the mind map interface. Referring back to the example shown in the object labeled Colombia now possesses additional connections to those originally manually assigned by a user as shown in . The new connections are represented by the highlighted joints in . Because of the greater link weight of the object labeled Colombia the visual representation of the object has grown in size and has nucleated towards the center of the mind web as a whole. Conversely those objects which possess a smaller number of connections become less centralized moving towards the outskirts of the mind map.

In one embodiment of the disclosed technology this icon may serve to indicate the source of that object as a trademark indicates a source of goods. Alternatively in another embodiment of the method of the disclosed technology the logo may also serve to indicate the type of semantic data associated with the content e.g. Melissa having been certified using Facebook as a data source has social networking content. In this particular example of a mind map according to a method of the disclosed technology a user is using a mind map in order to plan a Latin American Dinner Party. The user lists the various courses and corresponding foods and drinks associated with these courses. The interface is configured to then automatically analyze a data feed from a data source which in this case is the third party social networking platform Facebook. The data feed may be for instance relegated to a user s particular friends on Facebook or a particular subset of those friends classified by comments pictures location college network age etc which is relevant to the party and thus send invites to them via the social network add their data feeds or a subset thereof such as a conversation to them related to this event to the mind map or both.

A data feed associated with a third party social networking data source such as a social network is imported in embodiments of the disclosed technology using hypertext markup language herein HTML or an extensible markup language XML extension thereof. An application programming interface herein API such as those provided by a social networking platform is generally used to interact with the third party content and update content of the mind map visualization or the social network. In the particular case of Facebook for example Facebook Markup Language herein FBML is used. An API entitled XFBML known in the art is used in order to allow other programs to interact and exchange information with the Facebook database. Referring back to the interface of the disclosed technology uses the XFBML API in order to import and translate data to the mind map. Other data sources provide similar API s in order to allow compatibility with other software programs such as the interface of the disclosed technology.

Referring back to the classification also referred to as the class or classes of semantic data refers to a type of object i.e. website document contact information type of source e.g. social network actual source e.g. pictures from friends profile on a specific social network accompanies the visual representation of various objects. For example the visual representation of an object entitled cash flow forecast possesses two different classification icons . One icon comprises a circle with the text xls written within. This indicates to a user that this object amongst other data contains associated semantic content in the form of a spreadsheet document and is in the class of spreadsheet documents. Another icon contained in the visual representation of the object referring to cash flow forecast comprises a circle containing a Wikipedia logo. This serves to indicate that this particular object also possesses semantic data in the form of an encyclopedic entry associated with it or other data which is defined in the class for which this object belongs. As discussed previously such semantic data may be manually assigned by a user or synchronized automatically by the interface.

Other types of classifications of semantic content shown in include PowerPoint Slideshow pps websites www text documents doc emails and feeds thereof graphic file png and data associated with individuals imported from social networking platforms. The types of classifications that may be used are essentially limitless given the vast expanse of file types and data sources associated with the Internet and computers. Moreover visual indicia of associated semantic content may take any form such as but not limited to icons accompanying a visual representation images which are representative of the corresponding class of semantic content and different sized shaped and colored visual representations. A class of data or an object associated with classified data may comprise data indicative of geographic location place or time. In this manner any added object can be linked semantically with a location on a map or a time in which it occurred. The time may be the current time the time the object was added or the like. The place or geographic location may also be obtained by way of the use of a satellite navigation system receiver such as a GPS global positioning system or satellite navigation system.

Next the method proceeds with step in which data about the object is accessed from one or more data feeds. That is for example a FBXML or RSS data feed is read and relevant data is parsed or filtered and added to a mind map. In step the accessed data are then analyzed and additional related objects are identified such as additional links friends or data which is relevant to already existing or newly added visualizations of objects. In step a visual representation is created for each of one or more of the additional objects. That is for example when adding Germany to a list of countries the Rhine river is then added to a list of rivers to visit with channels for boat passage on another part of the mind map where such activities are being planned. Finally in step a connector is augmented added between the original or existing object or objects and each of one or more of the additional semantically related objects.

While the disclosed technology has been taught with specific reference to the above embodiments a person having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and the scope of the disclosed technology. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. All changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope. Combinations of any of the methods systems and devices described hereinabove are also contemplated and within the scope of the disclosed technology.

