---

title: Set-top box circuitry supporting 2D and 3D content reductions to accommodate viewing environment constraints
abstract: Set-top box circuitry and methods of operating the same are described that support the delivery of media content between one or more media content sources and a screen assembly of a display system. The set-top box circuitry is configured to process media content having display requirements that exceed constraints associated with a viewing environment that includes the screen assembly to produce processed media content having display requirements that do not exceed the constraints. The set-top box circuitry may also be configured to obtain substitute media content that replaces requested media content when the requested media content has display requirements exceeding constraints associated with a media content source, a communication path from the media content source, and/or the viewing environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08687042&OS=08687042&RS=08687042
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08687042
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 291 818 filed on Dec. 31 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 303 119 filed on Feb. 10 2010. The entirety of each of these applications is incorporated by reference herein.

This application is also related to the following U.S. patent applications each of which also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 291 818 and 61 303 119 and each of which is incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 225 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Controlling a Pixel Array to Support an Adaptable Light Manipulator 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display with Adaptable Parallax Barrier 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 filed on even date herewith and entitled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 031 filed on even date herewith and entitled Coordinated Driving of Adaptable Light Manipulator Backlighting and Pixel Array in Support of Adaptable 2D and 3D Displays 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 053 filed on even date herewith and entitled Hierarchical Video Compression Supporting Selective Delivery of Two Dimensional and Three Dimensional Video Content and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 248 filed on even date herewith and entitled Interpolation of Three Dimensional Video Content. 

The present invention generally relates to circuitry such as set top box circuitry that is used to receive media content from one or more media content sources and to convert it into a form suitable for delivery to and display by a particular display device.

Recently there has been a substantial increase in the types and amount of digital video content available to consumers and a concomitant increase in demand for such content. Today consumers can purchase or otherwise obtain digital video content via a variety of distribution channels. For example consumers can view digital video content transmitted via terrestrial broadcast cable TV or satellite TV services downloaded or streamed over a wired wireless Internet Protocol IP network connection or recorded on Digital Versatile Discs DVDs and Blu ray discs.

A recent development in the area of digital video entertainment involves the production and distribution of digital video content for viewing in three dimensions also referred to herein as three dimensional video content . Such video content includes a left eye view and a right eye view that must be concurrently presented to a viewer. Various technologies may be used to ensure that the left eye view is perceived only by the left eye of a viewer and the right eye view is perceived only by the right eye of the viewer. Such technologies may be premised for example on the use of colored polarizing or shuttering glasses or on light manipulation via a parallax barrier or lenticular lens. The mind of the viewer combines the left eye view and the right eye view to perceive a series of three dimensional images.

As noted above a variety of different technologies are currently being used to present three dimensional video content to viewers each of which may require the content to be represented using different formats. Conventional televisions and display devices that are only capable of presenting images in two dimensions will not be able to consume such three dimensional content since such televisions and display devices will not be able to handle the associated formats. Furthermore televisions and displays that can support the viewing of one type of three dimensional video content will not necessarily able to support the viewing of a different type of three dimensional content.

Set top box circuitry and methods of operating the same are described herein that support the delivery of media content between one or more media content sources and a screen assembly of a display system. The set top box circuitry is configured to process media content having display requirements that exceed constraints associated with a viewing environment that includes the screen assembly to produce processed media content having display requirements that do not exceed the constraints. The set top box circuitry may also be configured to obtain substitute media content that replaces requested media content when the requested media content has display requirements exceeding constraints associated with a media content source a communication path from the media content source and or the viewing environment. The set top box circuitry and methods of operating the same are substantially as shown in and or described herein in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

The present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. Additionally the left most digit s of a reference number identifies the drawing in which the reference number first appears.

The present specification discloses one or more embodiments that incorporate the features of the invention. The disclosed embodiment s merely exemplify the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiment s . The invention is defined by the claims appended hereto.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Furthermore it should be understood that spatial descriptions e.g. above below up left right down top bottom vertical horizontal etc. used herein are for purposes of illustration only and that practical implementations of the structures described herein can be spatially arranged in any orientation or manner.

The remote media content sources shown in include a cable fiber infrastructure a satellite infrastructure a broadcast media server and an on demand media server . Each of these sources is capable of transferring media content such as video audio images and the like to set top box circuitry . In the case of cable fiber infrastructure such media content is transmitted over a cable fiber or hybrid fiber cable HFC network. In the case of satellite infrastructure such media content is transmitted via one or more satellites to a satellite dish that is connected to set top box circuitry .

Broadcast media server is intended to broadly represent any system or device that is capable of broadcasting media content to a plurality of entities that includes set top box circuitry . As shown in broadcast media server is capable of broadcasting such media content over an Internet Protocol IP network for receipt by set top box circuitry . IP network is intended to represent one or more computer networks that utilize IP based technologies to facilitate the transfer of data between entities in a packetized form. IP network may comprise for example a public IP network such as the Internet a private IP network or a combination of public and private IP networks. IP network may be implemented using wired communication mediums wireless communication mediums or a combination of wired and wireless communication mediums. Broadcast media server may additionally or alternatively transfer media content to set top box circuitry via cable fiber infrastructure or satellite infrastructure .

 On demand media server is intended to broadly represent any system or device that is capable of selectively transferring media content to entities that have requested such content wherein the requesting entity may comprise set top box circuitry . Like broadcast media server on demand media server is capable of transferring such media content over IP network cable fiber infrastructure and or satellite infrastructure . When set top box circuitry is the requesting entity the request for the media content may be transferred from set top box circuitry to on demand media server via IP network via satellite infrastructure via cable fiber infrastructure or via some other communication path.

Remote media content sources other than those shown in may also be used to transfer media content to set top box circuitry . For example a terrestrial broadcaster may broadcast media content over one or more radio frequency RF channels such as the well known VHF and UHF channels to set top box circuitry . Still other remote media content sources not shown in may be used.

Local external device may also transfer media content to set top box circuitry and thus may also be considered a media content source. In contrast to the remote media content sources discussed above local external device is typically located on the same premises as set top box circuitry . Local external device may comprise for example and without limitation a computer e.g. a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a Digital Versatile Disc DVD player a Blu ray disc player a video gaming console a personal media player e.g. an Ipod a telephone e.g. a cellular phone smart phone or a personal digital assistant PDA . Local external device is connected to set top box circuitry via at least one interface suitable for transferring media content thereto. Such interface may comprise for example a wired or wireless interface.

Depending upon the implementation local external device may store and retrieve media content from local media storage . Local media storage may comprise for example and without limitation a hard disk or solid state drive integrated with or connected to local external device or a storage system comprising one or more storage devices connected to local external device e.g. network attached storage NAS a storage area network SAN or the like . Local external device may also be configured to retrieve media content from removable media storage . Such removable media storage may comprise for example and without limitation a DVD a Blu ray disc a smart card a USB flash drive or any other portable device or recording medium capable of storing media content in a manner that allows for access thereto by local external device .

As further shown in set top box circuitry includes local media storage and removable media storage . These elements may also act as sources of media content and may be implemented in a like manner to local media storage and removable media storage respectively as described above in reference to local external device .

Display system is intended to represent a system that can receive media content received from set top box circuitry and present such content to one or more viewers via a screen assembly . Display system may represent for example and without limitation a television a projection system a monitor a computing device e.g. desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer or handheld device e.g. a cellular phone smart phone personal media player personal digital assistant wherein the computing or handheld device has at least one attached or integrated display. Display system is connected to set top box circuitry via at least one interface suitable for receiving media content therefrom. Display system may also be able to display content received from other sources in addition to set top box circuitry .

In certain implementations screen assembly is capable of producing visual presentations in i full screen 2D ii full screen 3Dx wherein x denotes the number of perspective views that are simultaneously presented iii combined regional 2D and 3D areas of the display and iv combined regional 3Dx and 3Dx n areas of the display. For example in certain implementations screen assembly can be configured to simultaneously produce a visual display of a a single sequence of frames underlying a two dimensional video presentation within a first screen region and b both a second and third sequence of frames underlying two views that together comprise a three dimensional video presentation within a second screen region.

Various examples of screen assemblies that can support such two dimensional and three dimensional viewing modes are described in the following commonly owned co pending U.S. patent applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display with Adaptable Parallax Barrier U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views. The entirety of each of these applications is incorporated by reference herein. Screen assembly may be implemented in accordance with descriptions provided in the above referenced applications. However screen assembly may be implemented using other approaches as well.

Depending upon the implementation then display system may be capable of displaying media content of the following types 1 media content that represents a single view of certain subject matter which may be referred to herein as two dimensional 2D media content 2 media content that represents two views of the same subject matter that when displayed provide a single three dimensional view thereof which may be referred to herein as 3D 2 media content and 3 media content that represents some multiple of two views of the same subject matter that when displayed provides multiple three dimensional views thereof wherein the particular three dimensional view that is perceived by a viewer is dependent at least in part on the viewer s position relative to screen assembly of display system . The last type of media content may be referred to herein as 3D x media content wherein x is a multiple of 2. Thus for example when an implementation of display system is displaying 3D4 media content via screen assembly it is simultaneously displaying four different views of the same subject matter that are perceivable as two different three dimensional views. Both 3D 2 media content and 3D x media content may be generally referred to herein as three dimensional media content. 

In addition to the foregoing capabilities screen assembly may also be capable of simultaneously displaying different types of media content in different regions of the same screen. By way of example screen assembly may be capable of simultaneously displaying 2D media content in a first region of a screen 3D 2 media content in a second region of the screen and 3D 8 media content in a third region of the screen. A wide variety of other combined regional two dimensional and three dimensional display schemes may be supported by screen assembly . Screen assemblies having such capabilities are described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions. 

Set top box circuitry performs a variety of functions related to obtaining media content from one or more of the media content sources shown in and providing such media content or a substitute therefor to display system in a manner and format suitable for display by screen assembly . These functions which will be described in more detail herein are generally performed by processing circuitry .

With respect to obtaining media content from the one or more media content sources processing circuitry is configured to receive signals from a remote control device and or one or more other user input devices operated by a viewer of display system wherein such signals may indicate which media content should be obtained and from which source. Based on such signals processing circuitry may tune to a selected broadcast channel associated with a particular media content source send a request for content to a particular on demand media content source or the like. Such media content is then received by set top box circuitry via an appropriate interface not shown in .

With respect to providing received media content or a substitute therefor to display system in a manner and format suitable for display by screen assembly processing circuitry is configured to perform a variety of functions. The functions performed by processing circuitry in this regard may depend on one or more factors including a current viewing environment that is defined by one or more of the inherent capabilities of screen assembly a current operating mode of screen assembly the implementation of the element or elements that comprise the communication path between set top box circuitry and screen assembly and the current state of such element s .

Media content received from a media content source may have one or more display requirements associated therewith. For example such media content may comprise three dimensional media content that is formatted for display in a three dimensional viewing mode only. However the current viewing environment as defined above may not support the viewing of such three dimensional media content. For example the design and or current operating mode of screen assembly may render it incapable of displaying such three dimensional media content. Additionally the implementation and or state of the element s that comprise the communication path between set top box circuitry and display system may render the communication path incapable of carrying such three dimensional media content to display system at all or at a suitable data rate. Thus the current viewing environment may have limitations associated therewith that will not allow the display requirements associated with the media content to be met.

As will be described in more detail herein in situations where the current viewing environment comprises limitations that will not allow the display requirements associated with the media content to be met processing circuitry may process the media content to yield processed media content having display requirements that can be met by the current viewing environment which is then delivered to display system . Thus in further accordance with the previous example in which the viewing environment is incapable of displaying three dimensional media content processing circuitry may process the three dimensional media content to produce two dimensional media content that is viewable in two dimensions and then deliver the two dimensional media content to display system for display thereby.

Additionally in situations where the current viewing environment comprises limitations that will not allow the display requirements associated with the media content to be met processing circuitry may also obtain substitute media content which is then delivered to display system instead of the original media content. Thus in further accordance with the previous example in which the viewing environment is incapable of displaying three dimensional media content processing circuitry may obtain a two dimensional version of the same media content from a media content source and deliver the two dimensional version to display system instead of the three dimensional version.

Certain constraints associated with the current viewing environment may arise from having insufficient viewing environment resources to accommodate the simultaneous display of different media content by display system . For example in an embodiment in which display system includes a television screen that is capable of displaying high definition 3D content such television screen may display first media content in the form of a high definition 3D movie retrieved by set top box circuitry from a local media source. The high definition 3D movie may be displayed using the full display area of the television screen and the delivery of such high definition 3D movie may utilize the full capability of the communication link between set top box circuitry and the screen. This may prove manageable until a viewer requests a picture in picture window presentation of second media content such as a broadcast television channel. In order to accommodate this request both the first and second media content would need to be delivered to and displayed by the television screen simultaneously. However this would exceed the limitations of the viewing environment. As the viewer adds other media content requests the problem is exacerbated. To accommodate the requests of the viewer set top box circuitry in accordance with an embodiment will i reduce a resource requirement of the first media content to accommodate the second media content or ii reduce a resource requirement of the second media content to minimize its impact on the first media content. Performing one or the other of such reductions may suffice depending on the specific circumstances.

Such resource requirement reductions may take many forms including a reducing media content resolution b removing data from the first media content that corresponds to the area that is overlapped by the second media content c combining the second media content with the first media content to yield third media content that is delivered in substitution for the first and second media content d discarding in either or both of the first and second media content one or more perspective view frame sequences of a 3D presentation e changing the frame rate of either or both of the first and second media content including discarding frames in the process f retrieving or requesting a reduced version of either or both the first and second media content from the source of such media content or from an alternate source or the like. For many of these reduction processes set top box circuitry first performs decoding of some or all incoming media content to extract raw video frame sequences there from before performing reduction processing thereon. Thereafter set top box circuitry may deliver to display system the resulting reduction as one or more substitute raw video frame sequence s . The substitute raw video frame sequence s may also be re encoded by set top box circuitry before making such delivery.

The foregoing provides only a few examples of display requirements associated with media content limitations associated with the viewing environment and operations performed by processing circuitry to ensure that the display requirements associated with media content delivered to display system are within the limitations of the viewing environment. Additional examples and details associated therewith will be provided in subsequent sections herein.

Furthermore processing circuitry may perform functions relating to obtaining and providing media content to display system that are based on information concerning characteristics of a media content source and or a communication path over which media content is received from a media content source. For example as will be described in more detail herein in situations in which a media content source is overloaded or unavailable or in which there are bandwidth or other constraints on a communication path over which media content is to be received processing circuitry may perform operations such as but not limited to selectively reducing a number of views that are included in media content to be delivered to display system .

In certain implementations of system set top box circuitry is enclosed in a housing that is separate from local external device and display system . In alternate implementations set top box circuitry is integrated into a component of display system . For example set top box circuitry may be integrated into a television that comprises all or a portion of display system . In still further embodiments set top box circuitry may be integrated into local external device . For example depending upon the implementation set top box circuitry may be integrated within a DVD player a Blu ray disc player a video gaming console or other device. Thus it is to be understood that although processing circuitry local media storage and removable media storage are collectively referred to collectively as set top box circuitry in those components need not be housed in a set top box.

As shown in set top box circuitry includes processing circuitry that is communicatively connected to a plurality of remote media content source interfaces a plurality of additional interfaces a memory media player circuitry personal video recorder PVR circuitry a plurality of display interfaces and a plurality of user control interfaces .

Remote media content source interfaces comprise interfaces that allow set top box circuitry to be connected to and communicate with remote media content sources. For example set top box circuitry can be connected to and receive media content from one or more remote media content sources via any of remote media content source interfaces . Remote media content source interfaces include IP network interface circuitry a UHF VHF tuner demodulator a satellite tuner demodulator and a cable fiber tuner demodulator .

IP network interface circuitry comprises circuitry that enables set top box circuitry to be connected to and communicate with remote media content sources via an IP network such as IP network described above in reference to . As shown in IP network interface circuitry may comprise a wired transceiver for communicating with an IP network over a wired communication medium and a wireless transceiver for communicating with an IP network over a wireless communication medium. Wired transceiver may comprise for example and without limitation an Ethernet transceiver an ISDN transceiver a DSL transceiver an ADSL transceiver or the like. Wireless transceiver may comprise for example and without limitation an IEEE 802.11 transceiver a WiMax transceiver or the like. Set top box circuitry may include still other interfaces not shown in that enable it to be connected to and communicate with remote media content sources via an IP network.

UHF VHF tuner demodulator comprises a tuner that can be controlled to selectively receive modulated carrier signals via any of a plurality of VHF and UHF RF channels and a demodulator that operates to recover baseband signals from the modulated carrier signals. The baseband signals may represent media content broadcast by any of a variety of UHF VHF terrestrial broadcasting sources. UHF VHF tuner demodulator may be connected to an external UHF VHF antenna to enable the reception of the modulated carrier signals.

Satellite tuner demodulator comprises a tuner that can be controlled to selectively receive modulated carrier signals via any of a plurality of satellite television channels and a demodulator that operates to recover baseband signals from the modulated carrier signals. The baseband signals may represent media content broadcast by a satellite service provider via equipment such as that generally represented by satellite infrastructure shown in . Satellite tuner demodulator may be connected to an external satellite dish such as satellite dish shown in to enable the reception of the modulated carrier signals.

Cable fiber tuner demodulator comprises a tuner that can be controlled to selectively receive modulated carrier signals from any of a plurality of cable television channels and a demodulator that operates to recover baseband signals from the modulated carrier signals. The baseband signals may represent media content broadcast by a cable service provider via equipment links such as that generally represented by cable fiber infrastructure shown in . Cable fiber tuner demodulator may be connected to a coaxial or fiber optic cable that comprises a part of such infrastructure to enable the reception of the modulated carrier signals.

Additional interfaces include storage interfaces a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN dialup interface and local device interfaces .

Storage interfaces comprise interfaces that enable set top box circuitry to access one or more storage devices or systems. Such storage devices and systems may be accessed by way of example and without limitation for the purpose of recording media content e.g. for the purpose of recording media content received from a remote media content source and for retrieving stored media content. Storage interfaces may comprise for example a Serial Advanced Technology Attachment SATA interface for connecting to a hard disk drive a smart card interface for accepting and interacting with a smart card a USB interface for connecting to a USB flash drive or the like. Storage interfaces may also comprise interfaces suitable for communicating with a storage system such as NAS SAN or the like.

PSTN dialup interface comprises an interface that allows modems and phones to interact with set top box circuitry e.g. via a direct connection or via twisted pair home phone wiring . Such interaction may enable set top box circuitry to communicate with remote entities such as remote media content sources for the purposes of transmitting media requests or payment information thereto and or for the purposes of receiving low bandwidth media content therefrom. Such interaction may enable set top box circuitry to perform other functions as well.

Local device interfaces comprise other interfaces that allow set top box circuitry to connect to and communicate with locally situated devices. Such locally situated devices may be capable of delivering media content to set top box circuitry and or storing or playing media content received from set top box circuitry . Local device interfaces comprise wired interfaces and wireless interfaces . Wired interfaces comprise interfaces for connecting to a local device via a wired communication medium and may comprise for example and without limitation a USB interface an Ethernet interface a Firewire interface a fiber interface or the like. Wireless interfaces comprise interfaces for connecting to a local device via a wireless communication medium and may comprise for example and without limitation an IEEE 802.11 WiFi interface a Bluetooth interface a Zigbee interface an infrared FR interface or the like.

Media player circuitry comprises circuitry that may either be internal or external with respect to set top box circuitry and that is configured to play media content stored on a recording medium associated therewith. For example media player circuitry may comprise an internal or external DVD player Blu ray disc player or the like. Media content played by media player circuitry may be streamed by processing circuitry to a display via one of display interfaces .

PVR circuitry comprises circuitry that performs the functions of a PVR which include allowing users to select media content made available by a media content source recording such content when it is broadcast or otherwise delivered to set top box circuitry by the remote media content source and then allowing such content to be played back via a display system connected to one of display interfaces at a time of the user s choosing. PVR circuitry may be internal to set top box circuitry or may comprise an external PVR device that connects to and operates in conjunction with set top box circuitry .

Memory is intended to represent one or more internal memory devices that are configured to store data and instructions necessary to allow processing circuitry to perform functions to be described herein. Memory may comprise any suitable type of memory device including but not limited to non volatile memory devices such as read only memory ROM and flash memory devices and volatile memory devices such as random access memory RAM devices. As shown in memory includes a multi source media queue which as will be described herein enables processing circuitry to combine media content from different media content sources for delivery to a single display.

Display interfaces comprise interfaces for connecting set top box circuitry to a display system such as display system of . Display interfaces enable set top box circuitry to deliver media content to a display system for presentation thereon. As discussed above in reference to such display systems may include for example and without limitation a television a projection system a monitor a computing device or handheld device wherein the computing or handheld device has at least one attached or integrated display. As shown in display interfaces may include wired display interfaces and wireless display interfaces .

User control interfaces comprise interfaces that enable communication between set top box circuitry and one or more user control devices or mechanisms. User control devices that may connect to set top box circuitry via user control interfaces may comprise for example a remote control device such as remote control device of or any other user input device that is suitable for sending commands and other information to set top box circuitry . To support such devices user control interfaces may comprise wireless interfaces such as infrared I R or RF interfaces as well as wired interfaces such as wired serial interfaces. User control interfaces may also enable communication with buttons or other control mechanisms provided on a housing that encloses set top box circuitry .

As shown in processing circuitry is connected to all the foregoing components of set top box circuitry and comprises at least user control processing logic media content retrieval logic media content processing substitution logic and media content delivery logic . Depending upon the implementation each of these elements may be implemented in hardware i.e. using suitably configured analog and or digital circuits software e.g. through the execution of appropriate instructions by one or more general purpose or special purpose processors or as a combination of hardware and software. In certain implementations operations performed by these elements on video and audio content may be handled by dedicated video and audio processing circuitry. Each of these elements will now be described.

User control processing logic represents logic that interprets commands and other information received from one or more control devices or mechanisms via user control interfaces so that processing circuitry can perform operations based thereon. In one embodiment user control processing logic may utilize a control application programming interface API that facilitates the mapping of each of a predefined set of controller commands associated with the API to the underlying functionality necessary to execute the commands.

Media content retrieval logic represents logic that is capable of retrieving media content from any of the various media sources that can be connected to set top box circuitry . Media content retrieval logic may be invoked for example by user control processing logic in response to the processing of commands or other information received from a control device or mechanism. Media content retrieval logic may also be invoked to carry out other functionality implemented by processing circuitry .

For example in response to the processing of certain commands by user control processing logic media content retrieval logic may cause any of UHF VHF tuner demodulator satellite tuner demodulator or cable fiber tuner demodulator to tune to a particular broadcast channel to obtain media content therefrom. As another example in response to the processing of certain commands by user control processing logic media content retrieval logic may issue a request for media content to a remote media content source and then retrieve such media content when the request is serviced. As discussed above such media content may be delivered via any of remote media content source interfaces . By way of further example in response to the processing of certain commands by user control processing logic media content retrieval logic may retrieve media content from a storage device or system connected to any of storage interfaces from media player circuitry from PVR circuitry or from a local device connected to local device interfaces .

In one embodiment media content retrieval logic is configured to retrieve content from multiple content sources when necessary in order to satisfy a request for media content. This functionality will now be further described in reference to flowchart of which represents one method by which set top box circuitry may retrieve requested media content in accordance with an embodiment. Although the method of flowchart will be described herein in reference to certain elements of set top box circuitry of persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that the method is not limited to that implementation.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which set top box circuitry receives a request for media content. Such request may be received for example from a user operated control device or mechanism via any one of user control interfaces and interpreted by user control processing logic . User control processing logic may then invoke media content retrieval logic to service the request.

At decision step media content retrieval logic determines if the requested media content can be obtained from a single content source. As discussed in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 053 filed on even date herewith and entitled Hierarchical Video Compression Supporting Selective Delivery of Two Dimensional and Three Dimensional Video Content the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein three dimensional media content may be obtained by combining different digital video streams corresponding to different views of the same subject matter. Thus the performance of step may include determining whether or not a single media content source can deliver a single digital video stream or multiple digital video streams that when combined provide sufficient views to enable a desired three dimensional viewing mode.

If it is determined during decision step that the requested media content can be obtained from a single content source then media content retrieval logic obtains the requested media content from the single content source as shown at step . Thus for example if the request received during step comprised a request for two dimensional media content and media content retrieval logic determines that the requested two dimensional media content can be obtained from a single media content source then media content retrieval logic will obtain the requested two dimensional media content from the single media content source. As another example if the request received during step comprised a request for 3D2 media content and media content retrieval logic determines that the requested 3D2 media content can be obtained from a single media content source then media content retrieval logic will obtain the requested 3D2 media content from the single media content source. As a still further example if the request received during step comprises a request for 3D2 media content and media content retrieval logic determines that the requested 3D2 media content can be obtained by combining two digital video streams that can be obtained from a single media content source each digital video stream representing a different view of the same subject matter then media content retrieval logic will obtain the two digital video streams from the same single media content source and invoke media content processing substitution logic to combine the streams.

However if it is determined at decision step that that the requested media content cannot be obtained from a single content source then control flows to decision step . During decision step media content retrieval logic determines whether the requested media content can be obtained by combining media content from multiple sources. For example the performance of step may include determining whether or not there are multiple content sources that can each deliver one or more digital video streams the delivered video streams when combined providing sufficient views to enable a desired three dimensional viewing mode.

If it is determined during decision step that the requested media content can be obtained by combining media content from multiple sources then media content is obtained from the multiple sources and provided to media content processing substitution logic for combination thereby. Thus for example if the requested media content comprises 3D2 media content and it is determined that media player circuitry can deliver a first digital video stream representing a first view and a remote media content source connected to one of interfaces can deliver a second digital video stream representing a second view the first and second digital video streams being combinable into the requested 3D2 media content then media content retrieval logic will obtain the first and second digital video streams from media player circuitry and the remote media content source respectively and provide the streams to media content processing substitution logic for combination thereby. This is only one example and persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that any number of digital video streams may be obtained from different media content sources and combined to provide a desired form of three dimensional media content in accordance with embodiments.

However if it is determined during decision step that the requested media content also cannot be obtained by combining media content from multiple sources then media content retrieval logic may obtain substitute media content. For example if requisite digital video streams cannot be obtained to generate requested 3D2 media content media content retrieval logic may obtain a two dimensional version of the requested 3D2 media content instead. Alternatively media content retrieval logic may simply fail to retrieve any media content. In accordance with such an event a message may be displayed to a viewer via a display system connected to one of display interfaces that the requested media content is not available.

In accordance with a further embodiment media content retrieval logic is configured to obtain supplemental media content from a content source responsive to receiving a request for media content the supplemental media content intended to be combined with the requested media content. This functionality will now be further described in reference to flowchart of which represents one method by which set top box circuitry may retrieve requested media content and supplemental media content for combination therewith in accordance with an embodiment. Although the method of flowchart will be described herein in reference to certain elements of set top box circuitry of persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that the method is not limited to that implementation.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which set top box circuitry receives a request for media content. Such request may be received for example from a user operated control device or mechanism via any one of user control interfaces and interpreted by user control processing logic . User control processing logic may then invoke media content retrieval logic to service the request.

At decision step media content retrieval logic determines if supplemental media content is available for combination with the requested media content. Such supplemental media content may include but is not limited to related supplemental media content or unrelated supplemental media content. Related supplemental media content may include for example and without limitation additional digital video streams that can be combined with the requested media content to provide additional views e.g. to convert two dimensional media content to 3D2 media content to convert 3D2 media content to 3D4 media content or the like or graphics or textual content that can be combined with the requested media content to provide an enhanced or modified viewing experience e.g. graphics or textual overlays that provide a viewer with supplemental information about the media content they are viewing or providing commercial offers relating to the media content they are viewing . Unrelated supplemental media content may include for example and without limitation graphical or textual content that provide the viewer with information e.g. the weather local time news headlines etc. commercial offers e.g. advertisements or the like or other media content that bears no special relation to the subject matter of the requested media content. Such supplemental media content may be made available by the same media content source from which the media content is being requested or from a different media source.

If it is determined during decision step that no supplemental media content is available then only the requested media content is obtained as shown at step . However if it is determined during decision step that supplemental media content is available then control flows to decision step .

During decision step media content retrieval logic determines if a viewer that requested the media content is eligible to receive the supplemental media content or has opted into receiving such supplemental media content. Viewer eligibility may be determined by requiring the viewer to perform steps necessary to purchase the supplemental media content. Such a purchase may be carried out for example by providing appropriate instructions and license information via the display system to which the media content is to be delivered and by accepting certain user inputs via a control device or mechanism connected to one of user control interfaces . Viewer eligibility may also be determined based on a service plan to which the viewer has subscribed or in some other manner. In other embodiments the determination of whether the viewer should receive supplemental content may be based on viewer preference information received and stored by set top box circuitry or by an entity to which set top box circuitry can communicate. For example a viewer may opt in or out of receiving such supplemental media content.

If it is determined during decision step that the viewer is not eligible to receive supplemental media content or has opted out of receiving supplemental media content then only the requested media content is obtained as shown at step . However if it is determined during decision step that the viewer is eligible to receive supplemental media content then media content retrieval logic obtains both the requested media content and the supplemental media content and provides both to media content processing substitution logic for combination thereby. The media content and the supplemental media content may be obtained from the same media source or from different media sources. It is also noted that the media content and the supplemental media content may each be generated by combining media content from the same or different media content sources.

In accordance with a still further embodiment media content retrieval logic is configured to obtain substitute media content instead of requested media content if certain constraints are exceeded by a display or delivery requirement associated with the requested media content. This functionality will now be further described in reference to flowchart of which represents one method by which set top box circuitry may selectively retrieve substitute media content instead of requested media content in accordance with an embodiment. Although the method of flowchart will be described herein in reference to certain elements of set top box circuitry of persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that the method is not limited to that implementation.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which set top box circuitry receives a request for media content. Such request may be received for example from a user operated control device or mechanism via any one of user control interfaces and interpreted by user control processing logic . User control processing logic may then invoke media content retrieval logic to service the request.

At step media content retrieval logic determines constraints associated with one or more of the following a media content source from which the requested media content is to be obtained a communication path over which the requested media content is to be delivered from the media content source to set top box circuitry and or a viewing environment associated with the display of the requested media content the viewing environment including at least the display system that is intended to present the requested media content including a screen assembly thereof a communication path over which the requested media content will be delivered from set top box circuitry to the display system and the particular display interface used to connect set top box circuitry to the display system.

Example constraints that may be associated with the media content source from which the requested media content is to be obtained may include for example media content items and types provided by the media content source encoding formats used by the media content source whether or not the media content source is available on line or in an operational state a current degree of loading of the media content source or the like. Where the constraints associated with a particular media content source are fixed set top box circuitry may be preconfigured to include knowledge of such constraints. Where the constraints associated with a particular media content source are varying set top box circuitry may attempt determine the constraints by for example communicating or attempting to communicate with the media content source or by some other means.

Example constraints that may be associated with the communication path over which the requested media content is to be delivered from the media content source to set top box circuitry may include a connection speed as measured in kilobits per second kbps or using some other metric or bandwidth associated with the communication path a connection quality e.g. as measured for example by a signal to noise ratio a bit error rate or some other metric associated with the communication path or the like. Such constraints may be inherent in the implementation of the communication path and or due to current operating conditions associated with the communication path. Where the constraints associated with the communication path are fixed set top box circuitry may be preconfigured to include knowledge of such constraints. Where the constraints associated with the communication path are varying set top box circuitry may attempt determine the constraints by for example testing the current capabilities of the communication path or by some other means.

Example constraints that may be associated with a screen assembly of the display system may include for example the resolutions supported by the screen assembly whether the screen assembly can display three dimensional media content and if so what types e.g. 3D2 media content 3D4 media content 3D8 media content 3D16 media content etc. whether the screen assembly can support the simultaneous regional display of both two dimensional and three dimensional content or some other screen sharing limitation or the like. Such constraints may comprise factory constraints in that the constraints are inherent in the design of the screen assembly and or real time constraints in that the constraints are due to a current operating condition or mode of the screen assembly. The constraints associated with the screen assembly may be retrieved by processing circuitry from the display system by evaluating the performance of the screen assembly or by some other means. Such communication may occur at power up and or periodically during simultaneous operation of both components.

Example constraints that may be associated with the communication path over which the requested media content will be delivered from set top box circuitry to the display system may include a connection speed or bandwidth associated with the communication path a connection quality associated with the communication path or the like. Such constraints may be inherent in the implementation of the communication path and or due to current operating conditions associated with the communication path. Where the constraints associated with the communication path are fixed set top box circuitry may be preconfigured to include knowledge of such constraints. Where the constraints associated with the communication path are varying set top box circuitry may attempt determine the constraints by for example testing the current capabilities of the communication path or by some other means.

Example constraints that may be associated with the particular display interface used to connect set top box circuitry to the display system may include the particular data formats supported by the display interface the bandwidth supported by the display interface or the like. Since such constraints are typically fixed set top box circuitry may be preconfigured to include knowledge thereof

At decision step media content retrieval logic determines if certain display and or delivery requirements associated with the requested media content exceeds any of the constraints determined during step . If it is determined during decision step that the display and or delivery requirements do not exceed the constraints then media content retrieval logic will obtain the requested media content as shown at step . However if it is determined during decision step that at least one of the display and or delivery requirements exceeds at least one of the constraints then media content retrieval logic will obtain substitute media content as shown at step . The substitute media content may be obtained from the same media content source that was to provide the requested media content or from a different media content source entirely.

For example assume that the requested media content comprises 3D2 media content that is to be streamed to set top box circuitry at a 1080p resolution. If it is determined during decision step that a media content source that is going to provide the 3D2 media content is too overloaded or that the connection to such media content source is currently not fast enough to support the streaming of such content at some minimum bit rate media content retrieval logic may obtain substitute media content instead. Such substitute media content may comprise for example a 2D version of the media content or a lower resolution version of the 3D2 media content. This substitute media content will instead be processed by set top box circuitry and delivered to the requesting display system. The substitute media content may be obtained by media content retrieval logic from the same media content source that was to provide the 3D2 media content or from an entirely different media content source.

In further accordance with the foregoing example media content retrieval logic may determine during decision step that the requesting display system is not capable of displaying the 3D2 media content that the display interface cannot support the video format used to represent such 3D2 media content or that the communication path between set top box circuitry and the requesting display system is not fast enough to support the streaming of the requested 3D2 media content. For any of these reasons as well media content retrieval logic may obtain substitute media content instead.

As seen from the foregoing substitute media content may differ from requested media content in a variety of ways including the number of different views encompassed by the media content e.g. 2D 3D2 or 3Dx where x is a multiple of 2 and or the resolution of the media content. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art s the substitute media content may also differ in other ways including but not limited to video format encoding type and the like.

Example constraints that may be associated with a viewing environment may arise from having insufficient viewing environment resources to accommodate the simultaneous display of different media content by a display system. For example in an embodiment in which the display system includes a screen assembly that is capable of displaying high definition 3D content such screen assembly may display first media content in the form of a high definition 3D movie retrieved by set top box circuitry from a local media source. The high definition 3D movie may be displayed using the full display area of the screen assembly and the delivery of such high definition 3D movie may utilize the full capability of the communication link between set top box circuitry and the screen assembly. This may prove manageable until a viewer requests a picture in picture window presentation of second media content such as a broadcast television channel. In order to accommodate this request both the first and second media content would need to be delivered to and displayed by the screen assembly simultaneously. However this would exceed the limitations of the viewing environment. As the viewer adds other media content requests the problem is exacerbated. To accommodate the requests of the viewer during step set top box circuitry may obtain substitute media content by i reducing a resource requirement of the first media content to accommodate the second media content or ii reducing a resource requirement of the second media content to minimize its impact on the first media content. Performing one or the other of such reductions may suffice depending on the specific circumstances.

Such resource requirement reductions may take many forms including a reducing media content resolution b removing data from the first media content that corresponds to the area that is overlapped by the second media content c combining the second media content with the first media content to yield third media content that is delivered in substitution for the first and second media content d discarding in either or both of the first and second media content one or more perspective view frame sequences of a 3D presentation e changing the frame rate of either or both of the first and second media content including discarding frames in the process f retrieving or requesting a reduced version of either or both the first and second media content from the source of such media content or from an alternate source or the like. For many of these reduction processes set top box circuitry first performs decoding of some or all incoming media content to extract raw video frame sequences there from before performing reduction processing thereon. Thereafter set top box circuitry may deliver to the display system the resulting reduction as one or more substitute raw video frame sequence s . The substitute raw video frame sequence s may also be re encoded by set top box circuitry before making such delivery.

The foregoing provides merely a few examples of display delivery requirements that may be associated with media content and constraints that may be associated with a viewing environment media content source and or a communication path between a set top box and a media content source. Still other display delivery requirements and other constraints may be considered by media content retrieval logic in determining whether or not to obtain substitute media content instead of requested media content in accordance with further embodiments.

Media content processing substitution logic represents logic that processes media content obtained by media content retrieval logic to ensure that it is in a form that is suitable for delivery and display to a display system connected to one of display interfaces . is a block diagram that shows various elements of media content processing substitution logic in accordance with one embodiment. As shown in media content processing substitution logic may include descrambling and decoding logic multi source 3Dx weaving logic 3Dx n to 3Dx stream interpolation logic encoder directed frame interpolation logic 3Dx n to 3Dx conversion logic and viewing environment compensation logic . Each of these elements will now be described.

Descrambling and decoding logic comprises logic that is configured to apply descrambling and or decoding operations to media content received from any of the media content sources communicatively connected to set top box circuitry when necessary to facilitate delivery and display of such media content. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art s some media content sources provide media content in the form of scrambled or encrypted signals that must be processed by appropriate descrambling logic in order to place them into a form that is suitable for viewing. As will also be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art s much of the media content that is distributed today is encoded in accordance with one or more encoding standards e.g. video and image encoding standards to achieve a compressed representation that facilitates more efficient transmission and storage thereof Descrambling and decoding logic may be configured to perform descrambling and or decoding operations responsive to receiving media content that is in a particular scrambled and or encoded state so as to provide it to a display system in a descrambled and or decoded state. In accordance with certain implementations descrambling and decoding logic may be configured to perform descrambling and or decoding operations only if a display system to which the media content is to be delivered is not capable of performing the necessary descrambling and or decoding operations.

Multi source 3Dx weaving logic comprises logic that is configured to receive media content in the form of multiple digital video streams each digital video stream representing one or more different perspective view of the same subject matter and to combine the multiple digital video streams to generate a new digital video stream that includes all of the different perspective views of the original digital video streams. Thus for example multi source 3Dx weaving logic may receive two different two dimensional digital video streams each representing a different perspective view of the same subject matter and combine them to generate a 3D2 digital video stream that includes both perspective views of the subject matter. As another example multi source 3Dx weaving logic may receive a 3D2 digital video stream that provides two perspective views of certain subject matter and a 3D4 digital video stream that provides four additional perspective views of the same subject matter and combine them to generate a single 3D6 digital video stream that includes 6 perspective views of the subject matter. To perform the combining operations multi source 3Dx weaving logic may store the different digital video streams in a synchronized manner in a multi source media queue such as multi source media queue shown in .

Multi source 3Dx weaving logic advantageously enables set top box circuitry to satisfy requests for certain types of three dimensional media content by combining two dimensional and or three dimensional media content obtained from the same or different sources. Such 3Dx weaving logic also advantageously enables set top box circuitry to provide three dimensional media content to advanced display systems in a manner that leverages the availability of legacy media content e.g. to serve three dimensional media content by combining two dimensional media content with other media content . Techniques that facilitate the assembling of three dimensional media content from a series of separate encoded digital video streams are further described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 053 filed on even date herewith and entitled Hierarchical Video Compression Supporting Selective Delivery of Two Dimensional and Three Dimensional Video Content. 

3Dx n to 3Dx stream interpolation logic comprises logic that is configured to process two or more digital video streams representing different perspective views of the same subject matter to generate one or more new digital video streams that represent additional perspective views of the same subject matter. The streams may then be combined e.g. by multi source 3Dx weaving logic to produce a single three dimensional video stream having additional views. For example 3Dx n to 3Dx stream interpolation logic may receive two digital video streams representing two different perspective views of the same subject matter which together comprise 3D2 media content and process those streams to generate two new interpolated digital video streams representing two additional perspective views of the same subject matter. The two original digital video streams may then be combined with the two new interpolated digital video streams to produce 3D4 media content.

3Dx n to 3Dx stream interpolation logic advantageously enables set top box circuitry to satisfy requests for three dimensional media content that includes a certain number of views by processing existing or available media content that provides only a lesser number of views. Additional details concerning such interpolation operations are provided in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 248 filed on even date herewith and entitled Interpolation of Three Dimensional Video Content the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Encoder directed frame interpolation logic comprises logic that is configured to generate a frame of a particular digital video stream based on the content of frames from one or more other digital video streams wherein the digital video streams each represent different perspective views of the same subject matter and are combinable to form a single three dimensional video stream. Such interpolation operation may be performed by logic in response to receiving an appropriate indicator included the encoded representation of one of the digital video stream s or in response to some other event. This functionality enables an encoder of such digital video streams to selectively opt not to include representations of frames of a digital video stream in the encoded data when such frames can be adequately generated via interpolation on the decoder side. This functionality thus enables bandwidth to be conserved when the encoded representation is transmitted over a communication path or storage space to be conserved when the encoded representation is stored on a recording medium. Additional details regarding encoder directed frame interpolation may be found in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 248 filed on even date herewith and entitled Interpolation of Three Dimensional Video Content. 

3Dx n to 3Dx conversion logic comprises logic that is configured to process three dimensional media content that includes a first number of different perspective views of the same subject matter to produce two dimensional or three dimensional media content that includes a lesser number of views of the same subject matter. Such operation may be necessary for example when a screen assembly of a display system attached to set top box circuitry is incapable of displaying the requisite number of views. In one embodiment 3Dx n to 3Dx conversion logic operates by decoding the three dimensional media content and extracting digital video streams therefrom that represent the first number of different perspective views removing some number of the digital video streams and then combining the remaining digital video streams to produce processed media content for delivery to a display system. This is in essence a transcoding operation. In another embodiment in which certain methods described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 248 filed on even date herewith and entitled Hierarchical Video Compression Supporting Selective Delivery of Two Dimensional and Three Dimensional Video Content are used to encode the three dimensional media content this operation may simply involve selectively discarding certain encoded digital video streams.

Viewing environment compensation logic comprises logic that is configured to determine limitations or constraints associated with a viewing environment via which media content will be delivered and displayed and that selectively causes certain operations to be performed on such media content if display requirements associated therewith exceed the limitations or constraints. The manner in which viewing environment compensation logic operates will now be further described in reference to flowchart of . Although the method of flowchart will be described herein in reference to elements of example set top box circuitry persons skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the method may be performed by other embodiments.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which media content processing substitution logic receives media content for delivery to a display system connected to any one of display interfaces . Such media content may be obtained for example by media content retrieval logic in accordance with any of the methods or techniques described above. In certain implementations or operating modes the media content received during step may already been descrambled and or decoded by descrambling and decoding logic .

At step viewing environment compensation logic determines constraints associated with a viewing environment that may include at least the display system that is intended to present the media content including a screen assembly thereof a communication path over which the requested media content will be delivered from set top box circuitry to the display system and the particular display interface used to connect set top box circuitry to the display system.

Example constraints that may be associated with a screen assembly of the display system may include for example the resolutions supported by the screen assembly whether the screen assembly can display three dimensional media content and if so what types e.g. 3D2 media content 3D4 media content 3D8 media content 3D16 media content etc. whether the screen assembly can support the simultaneous regional display of both two dimensional and three dimensional content or some other screen sharing limitation or the like. Such constraints may comprise factory constraints in that the constraints are inherent in the design of the screen assembly and or real time constraints in that the constraints are due to a current operating condition or mode of the screen assembly. The constraints associated with the screen assembly may be retrieved by processing circuitry from the display system by evaluating the performance of the screen assembly or by some other means. Such communication may occur at power up and or periodically during simultaneous operation of both components.

Example constraints that may be associated with the communication path over which the requested media content will be delivered from set top box circuitry to the display system may include a connection speed or bandwidth associated with the communication path a connection quality associated with the communication path or the like. Such constraints may be inherent in the implementation of the communication path and or due to current operating conditions associated with the communication path. Where the constraints associated with the communication path are fixed set top box circuitry may be preconfigured to include knowledge of such constraints. Where the constraints associated with the communication path are varying set top box circuitry may attempt determine the constraints by for example testing the current capabilities of the communication path or by some other means.

Example constraints that may be associated with the particular display interface used to connect set top box circuitry to the display system may include the particular data formats supported by the display interface the bandwidth supported by the display interface or the like. Since such constraints are typically fixed set top box circuitry may be preconfigured to include knowledge thereof.

At decision step viewing environment compensation logic determines if certain display requirements associated with the media content exceed any of the constraints determined during step . If it is determined during decision step that the display requirements do not exceed the constraints then media content processing substitution logic will provide the media content to the display system via the appropriate display interface as shown at step . However if it is determined during decision step that at least one of the display requirements exceeds at least one of the constraints then viewing environment compensation logic will cause the media content to be processed in a manner that produces processed media content having display requirements that do not exceed the constraints as shown at step .

For example assume that the media content comprises three dimensional media content. If it is determined during decision step that the screen assembly is not capable of displaying three dimensional media content at all then viewing environment compensation logic may cause the three dimensional media content to be processed to produce a two dimensional version thereof As another example assume that the media content comprises 3D8 media content and it is determined during step that the screen assembly is only capable of displaying 2D 3D2 and 3D4 media content. In this case viewing environment compensation logic may cause the 3D8 media content to be processed to produce a 3D4 version thereof. Such processing may be performed for example by 3Dx n to 3Dx conversion logic as described above.

Other processing that may be performed during step to ensure that constraints of the viewing environment are not exceeded may include but are not limited to reducing a resolution of two dimensional and three dimensional media content modifying media content configured for full screen display on a screen assembly to produce processed media content configured for display within a region of the screen assembly modifying a video format associated with media content modifying a bit rate associated with media content and the like.

In still further embodiments viewing environment compensation logic may send control signals to the display system to proactively change a configuration of a screen assembly associated therewith to ensure that the processed media content can be displayed. For example viewing environment compensation logic may alter an operating mode of the screen assembly so that the operating mode can accommodate the presentation of a certain type of media content. Altering the operating mode may comprise for example changing the operating mode from a two dimensional mode to a three dimensional mode changing the operating mode from a first three dimensional mode e.g. 3D2 to a second three dimensional mode e.g. 3D4 reconfiguring a region of the screen assembly or the like.

The foregoing provides merely a few examples of display requirements that may be associated with media content and constraints that may be associated with a viewing environment. Still other display requirements and other constraints may be considered by viewing environment compensation logic in determining whether or not to process media content prior to delivery to a display system in accordance with further embodiments.

Although the foregoing describes cases in which display requirements associated with certain media content exceed constraints or limitations associated with a viewing environment there may be cases where the capabilities of the viewing environment exceed the display requirements associated with the media content. For example a display system may include a screen assembly that is capable of presenting 3D8 media content at 720p resolution while the media content obtained by set top box circuitry is 3D4 media content at 480i. In such cases processing circuitry may process the media content to produce processed media content that more fully utilizes the capabilities of the screen assembly. For example processing circuitry may process the media content to produce 3D8 media content at 720p resolution.

Media content delivery logic comprises logic that is configured to deliver media content from set top box circuitry to a display system via any of display interfaces . The media content that is delivered may comprise media content obtained by set top box circuitry from one or more media content sources and that is processed to some degree by processing circuitry . As discussed above such processing may include descrambling decoding and or modifying the media content to accord with constraints or capabilities of a particular viewing environment. As also discussed above the media content delivered to the display may comprise substitute media content obtained by media content retrieval logic .

Example implementations of display system will now be described. Such example implementations may include display elements that enable multiple two dimensional and three dimensional viewing configurations. For example as will be discussed below such example implementations may include an adaptable light manipulator and pixel array or an adaptable light manipulator pixel array and non uniform light generator.

Pixel array comprises a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged as a grid or other distribution . Pixel array is a self illuminating or light generating pixel array such that the pixels of pixel array each emit light included in light . Each pixel may be a separately addressable light source e.g. a pixel of a plasma display an LCD display an LED display such as an OLED display or of other type of display . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary color and intensity. In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Adaptable parallax barrier is positioned proximate to a surface of pixel array . Barrier element array is a layer of adaptable parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Combinations of barrier elements may be configured to be selectively opaque or transparent to enable various effects. For example the states of the barrier elements of barrier element array may be configured such that light emanating from pixel array is filtered to produce filtered light wherein filtered light includes one or more two dimensional and or three dimensional images that may be viewed by viewers in a viewing space .

Depending upon the implementation each barrier element may have a round square or rectangular shape and barrier element array may have any number of rows of barrier elements that extend a vertical length of barrier element array . In another embodiment each barrier element may have a band shape that extends a vertical length of barrier element array such that barrier element array includes a single horizontal row of barrier elements. Each barrier element may include one or more of such bands and different regions of barrier element array may include barrier elements that include different numbers of such bands.

It is noted that in some embodiments barrier elements may be capable of being completely transparent or opaque and in other embodiments barrier elements may not be capable of being fully transparent or opaque. For instance such barrier elements may be capable of being 95 transparent when considered to be transparent and may be capable of being 5 transparent when considered to be opaque. Transparent and opaque as used herein are intended to encompass barrier elements being substantially transparent e.g. greater than 75 transparent including completely transparent and substantially opaque e.g. less than 25 transparent including completely opaque respectively.

Driver circuitry receives control signals from control circuitry not shown in . The control signals cause driver circuitry to place screen in a selected one of a plurality of different viewing configurations. In particular based on control signals adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry transmits drive signals that cause barrier element array to be placed in a state that supports the selected viewing configuration. The selected viewing configuration may be a particular two dimensional viewing configuration a particular three dimensional viewing configuration or a viewing configuration that supports the display of different types of two dimensional and or three dimensional content in corresponding display regions.

For example shows an arrangement of an adaptable parallax barrier that supports a particular three dimensional viewing configuration. Adaptable parallax barrier is an example of adaptable parallax barrier of . As shown in adaptable parallax barrier includes a barrier element array which includes a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. Furthermore as shown in barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a plurality of parallel non blocking strips or slits . As shown in parallel non blocking strips non blocking slits are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements that are selected to be blocking. In the example of non blocking strips and blocking strips each have a width along the x dimension of two barrier elements and have lengths that extend along the entire y dimension twenty barrier elements of barrier element array although in other embodiments may have alternative dimensions. Non blocking strips and blocking strips form a parallax barrier configuration for adaptable parallax barrier . The spacing and number of parallel non blocking strips in barrier element array may be selectable by choosing any number and combination of particular strips of barrier elements in barrier element array to be non blocking to be alternated with blocking strips as desired. For example hundreds thousands or even larger numbers of non blocking strips and blocking strips may be present in adaptable parallax barrier .

Each of adaptable parallax barriers and configured in the manner shown in respectively filter light produced by a pixel array to form one or more three dimensional views in a viewing space thus supporting a three dimensional viewing configuration. To achieve a two dimensional viewing configuration all of the barrier elements of either adaptable parallax barrier or can simply be placed in a non blocking state. Additional details concerning how the adaptable parallax barriers operate to support such three dimensional viewing may be found for example in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions. 

In the adaptable parallax barrier configurations shown in the entirety of the barrier element array is filled with parallel non blocking strips to support three dimensional viewing. In further embodiments one or more regions of an adaptable parallax barrier may be filled with parallel non blocking strips to deliver three dimensional images and one or more other regions of the adaptable parallax barrier may be rendered transparent to deliver two dimensional images. Thus a viewing configuration that mixes two dimensional and three dimensional viewing regions may be supported.

For instance shows an arrangement of an adaptable parallax barrier that supports a viewing configuration that mixes two dimensional and three dimensional viewing regions according to example embodiments. Adaptable parallax barrier is similar to adaptable parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. In a first region of barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips that together fill first region . A second region of barrier element array is surrounded by first region . Second region is a rectangular shaped region of barrier element array that includes a two dimensional array of barrier elements that are non blocking. Thus in barrier element array is configured to enable a three dimensional image to be generated by pixels of a pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements of first region and to enable a two dimensional image to be generated by pixels of the pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements inside of second region . Note that alternatively first region may include all non blocking barrier elements to pass a two dimensional image and second region may include parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips to pass a three dimensional image. In further embodiments adaptable parallax barrier may have additional numbers sizes and arrangements of regions configured to pass different combinations of two dimensional images and three dimensional images.

In still further embodiments different regions of an adaptable parallax barrier that have parallel non blocking strips may have the parallel non blocking strips oriented at different angles to deliver three dimensional images to viewers that are oriented differently. Thus a viewing configuration that mixes three dimensional viewing regions having different viewing orientations may be supported.

For example shows an arrangement of an adaptable parallax barrier in which transparent slits have different orientations according to an example embodiment. Adaptable parallax barrier is similar to adaptable parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. A first region e.g. a bottom half of barrier element array includes a first plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a first plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of two barrier elements . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of three barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a first direction e.g. along a vertical axis .

Furthermore as shown in a second region e.g. a top half of barrier element array includes a second plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a second plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of one barrier element . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of two barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a second direction e.g. along a horizontal axis .

As such in first and second pluralities of parallel non blocking strips and are present in barrier element array that are oriented perpendicularly to each other. The region of barrier element array that includes first plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented vertically e.g. sitting upright or standing up . The region of barrier element array that includes second plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented horizontally e.g. laying down . In this manner users who are oriented differently relative to each other can still each be provided with a corresponding three dimensional image that accommodates their position.

The foregoing adaptable parallax barriers and arrangements thereof have been described herein by way of example only. Additional adaptable parallax barriers and arrangements thereof may be used to support additional viewing configurations. For example additional adaptable parallax barrier implementations and arrangements thereof are described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions and in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Returning now to the description of display system of since a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier can be dynamically modified to support a particular viewing configuration pixel array must also be controlled to support the same viewing configuration. In particular the rendering of pixels of an image also referred to herein as image pixels among the pixels of pixel array also referred to herein as display pixels must be handled in a manner that is consistent with a current configuration of adaptable parallax barrier . This may entail for example changing a number of display pixels that represents each image pixel i.e. changing the resolution of a displayed image and or changing which display pixels or groups thereof correspond to the respective image pixels i.e. changing the locations at which the image pixels are displayed in response to modification of a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier . Such changes may be implemented by a controller not shown in via delivery of appropriate control signals to pixel array driver circuitry .

For example in one embodiment when a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier supports a first viewing configuration responsive to control signals pixel array driver circuitry sends drive signals in conformance with control signals such that the rendering of images to pixel array occurs in a manner that also supports the first viewing configuration. Furthermore when the configuration of adaptable parallax barrier is modified to support a second viewing configuration responsive to control signals pixel array driver circuitry sends drive signals in conformance with the control signals such that the rendering of images to pixel array occurs in a manner that also supports the second viewing configuration.

Numerous other methods may be used to control the rendering of image pixels to display pixels in support of a desired two dimensional and or three dimensional viewing configuration implemented by an adaptable parallax barrier or other adaptable light manipulator. Additional details concerning such control of a pixel array may be found in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 225 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Controlling a Pixel Array to Support an Adaptable Light Manipulator the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Light generator emits light . Adaptable parallax barrier is positioned proximate to light generator . Barrier element array is a layer of adaptable parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Barrier element array filters light received from light generator to generate filtered light . Filtered light is configured to enable a two dimensional image or a three dimensional image e.g. formed by a pair of two dimensional images in filtered light to be formed based on images subsequently imposed on filtered light by pixel array .

Pixel array includes a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged in a grid or other distribution like pixel array of . However pixel array is not self illuminating and instead is a light filter that imposes images e.g. in the form of color grayscale etc. on filtered light from adaptable parallax barrier to generate filtered light to include one or more images. Each pixel of pixel array may be a separately addressable filter e.g. a pixel of a plasma display an LCD display an LED display or of other type of display . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary the color imposed on the corresponding light passing through and or to vary the intensity of the passed light in filtered light . In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Driver circuitry receives control signals from control circuitry not shown in . The control signals cause driver circuitry to place screen in a selected one of a plurality of different viewing configurations. In particular based on control signals adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry transmits drive signals that cause barrier element array to be placed in a state that supports the selected viewing configuration. Likewise based on control signals pixel array driver circuitry transmits drive signals to cause pixels of one or more images also referred to herein as image pixels to be rendered among the pixels of pixel array also referred to herein as display pixels in a manner that is consistent with a current configuration of adaptable parallax barrier . The selected viewing configuration may be a particular two dimensional viewing configuration a particular three dimensional viewing configuration or a viewing configuration that supports the display of different types of two dimensional and or three dimensional content in different display regions.

As discussed in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 filed on even date herewith and entitled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein conventional LCD displays typically include a backlight and a display panel that includes an array of LCD pixels. The backlight is designed to produce a sheet of light of uniform luminosity for illuminating the LCD pixels. When simultaneously displaying two dimensional three dimensional and multi view three dimensional regions using an adaptable parallax barrier such as that described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions the use of a conventional backlight will result in a disparity in perceived brightness between the different simultaneously displayed regions. This is because the number of visible pixels per unit area associated with a two dimensional dimensional region will generally exceed the number of visible pixels per unit area associated with a particular three dimensional or multi view three dimensional region in which the pixels must be partitioned among different eyes views .

To address this issue light generator includes a backlight array which is a two dimensional array of light sources. Such light sources may be arranged for example in a rectangular grid. Each light source in backlight array is individually addressable and controllable to select an amount of light emitted thereby. A single light source may comprise one or more light emitting elements depending upon the implementation. In one embodiment each light source in backlight array comprises a single light emitting diode LED although this example is not intended to be limiting.

The amount of light emitted by the individual light sources that make up backlight array can selectively controlled by drive signals generated by light generator driver circuitry so that the brightness associated with each of a plurality of display regions of screen can also be controlled. This enables display system to provide a desired brightness level for each display region automatically and or in response to user input. For example backlight array can be controlled such that a uniform level of brightness is achieved across different simultaneously displayed display regions even though the number of perceptible pixels per unit area varies from display region to display region. As another example backlight array can be controlled such that the level of brightness associated with a particular display region is increased or reduced without impacting or without substantially impacting the brightness of other simultaneously displayed display regions.

To help illustrate this provides an exploded view of a display system that implements a controllable backlight array as described immediately above. Display system comprises one implementation of display system . As shown in display system includes a light generator that includes a backlight array an adaptable parallax barrier that includes a barrier element array and a display panel that includes a pixel array . These elements may be aligned with and positioned proximate to each other to create an integrated display screen.

In accordance with the example configuration shown in a first portion of pixel array and a first portion of barrier element array have been manipulated to create a first display region that displays multi view three dimensional content a second portion of pixel array and a second portion of barrier element array have been manipulated to create a second display region that displays a three dimensional image and a third portion of of pixel array and a third portion of barrier element array have been manipulated to create a third display region that displays a two dimensional image. To independently control the brightness of each of the first second and third display regions the amount of light emitted by light sources included within a first portion a second portion and a third portion of backlight array can respectively be controlled. For example the light sources within first portion may be controlled to provide greater luminosity than the light sources within second portion and third portion as the number of perceivable pixels per unit area will be smallest in the first display region with which first portion is aligned. In further accordance with this example the light sources within second portion may be controlled to provide greater luminosity than the light sources within third portion since the number of perceivable pixels per unit area will be smaller in the second display region with which second portion is aligned than the third display region with which third portion is aligned. Of course if uniform luminosity is not desired across the various display regions then other control schemes may be used.

Of course the arrangement shown in provides only a single teaching example. It should be noted that a display system in accordance with an embodiment can dynamically manipulate pixel array and barrier element array in a coordinated fashion to dynamically and simultaneously create any number of display regions of different sizes and in different locations wherein each of the created display regions can display one of two dimensional three dimensional or multi view three dimensional content. To accommodate this backlight array can also be dynamically manipulated in a coordinated fashion with pixel array and barrier element array to ensure that each display region is perceived at a desired level of brightness.

In the arrangement shown in there is a one to one correspondence between each light source in backlight array and every display pixel in pixel array . However this need not be the case to achieve regional brightness control. For example in certain embodiments the number of light sources provided in backlight array is less than the number of pixels provided in pixel array . For instance in one embodiment a single light source may be provided in backlight array for every N pixels provided in pixel array wherein N is an integer greater than 1. In an embodiment in which the number of light sources in backlight array is less than the number of pixels in pixel array each light source may be arranged so that it provides backlighting for a particular group of pixels in pixel array although this is only an example. In alternate embodiments the number of light sources provided in backlight array is greater than the number of pixels provided in pixel array .

Also in the examples described above light sources in backlight array are described as being individually controllable. However in alternate embodiments light sources in backlight array may only be controllable in groups. This may facilitate a reduction in the complexity of the control infrastructure associated with backlight array . In still further embodiments light sources in backlight array may be controllable both individually and in groups.

It is also noted that although show display system configurations in which a barrier element array of an adaptable parallax barrier is disposed between a backlight array of individually addressable and controllable light sources and a pixel array in alternate implementations the pixel array may be disposed between the backlight array and the barrier element array. Such an alternate implementation is shown in . In particular is a block diagram of a display system that includes a pixel array disposed between a light generator that includes a backlight array and an adaptable parallax barrier that includes a barrier element array to support the generation of two dimensional and or three dimensional images perceivable in a viewing space . In such alternate implementations selective control of the luminosity of groups or individual ones of the light sources in backlight array may also be used to vary the backlighting luminosity associated with different display regions created by the interaction of backlight array pixel array and barrier element array .

Other example display system implementations that utilize a backlight array of independently controllable light sources are described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 filed on even date herewith and entitled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier. That application also describes other approaches for controlling the brightness of different simultaneously displayed display regions of a display system. Some of these approaches will be described below.

For example to achieve independent region by region brightness control in a display system that includes a conventional backlight panel designed to produce a sheet of light of uniform luminosity the amount of light passed by the individual pixels that make up a pixel array can be selectively controlled so that the brightness associated with each of a plurality of display regions can also be controlled. To help illustrate this provides an exploded view of a display system that implements a regional brightness control scheme based on pixel intensity as described immediately above. As shown in display system includes a display panel and an adaptable parallax barrier . Display system also includes a backlight panel although this element is not shown in . These elements may be aligned with and positioned proximate to each other to create an integrated display screen.

As further shown in display panel includes a pixel array . Each of the pixels in a first portion of pixel array is individually controlled by pixel array driver circuitry to pass a selected amount of light produced by a backlight panel not shown in thereby producing display generated light representative of a single two dimensional image. Each of the pixels in a second portion of pixel array is individually controlled by the pixel array driver circuitry to pass a selected amount of light produced by the backlight panel thereby producing display generated light representative of two two dimensional images that when combined by the brain of a viewer positioned in an appropriate location relative to display system will be perceived as a single three dimensional image.

Adaptable parallax barrier includes barrier element array that includes a first portion and a second portion . Barrier element array is aligned with pixel array such that first portion of blocking region array overlays first portion of pixel array and second portion of blocking region array overlays second portion of pixel array . Adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry causes all the barrier elements within first portion of barrier element array to be transparent. Thus the two dimensional image generated by the pixels of first portion of pixel array will simply be passed through to a viewer in a viewing space in front of display system . Furthermore the adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry manipulates the barrier elements within second portion of blocking region array to form a plurality of parallel transparent strips alternated with parallel opaque strips thereby creating a parallax effect that enables the two two dimensional images generated by the pixels of second portion of pixel array to be perceived as a three dimensional image by a viewer in the viewing space in front of display system .

Assume that a viewer is positioned such that he she can perceive both the two dimensional image passed by first portion of barrier element array and the three dimensional image formed through parallax by second portion of barrier element . As discussed above the pixels per unit area perceived by this viewer with respect to the two dimensional image will be greater than the pixels per unit area perceived by this viewer with respect to the three dimensional image. Thus the two dimensional image will appear brighter to the viewer than the three dimensional image when backlighting of constant luminosity is provided behind pixel array .

To address this issue drive signals may be transmitted to display panel that selectively cause the pixels included in first portion of pixel array to pass less light from the backlight panel i.e. become less intense thereby reducing the brightness of the two dimensional image produced from the pixels in first portion of pixel array . Alternatively or additionally drive signals may be transmitted to display panel that selectively cause the pixels included in second portion of pixel array to pass more light from the backlight panel i.e. become more intense thereby increasing the brightness of the three dimensional image produced from the pixels in second portion of pixel array . By controlling the intensity of the pixels in portions and of pixel array in this manner the brightness of the two dimensional image produced from the pixels in first portion of pixel array and the brightness of the three dimensional image produced from the pixels in second portion of pixel array can be kept consistent. Additionally by providing independent control over the intensity of the pixels in portions and of pixel array independent control over the brightness of the two dimensional and three dimensional images generated therefrom can also be achieved.

Of course the arrangement shown in provides only a single teaching example. It should be noted that a display system in accordance with an embodiment can dynamically manipulate pixel array and blocking element array in a coordinated fashion to dynamically and simultaneously create any number of display regions of different sizes and in different locations wherein each of the created display regions can display one of two dimensional three dimensional or multi view three dimensional content. To accommodate this the intensity of the pixels in pixel array can also be dynamically manipulated in a coordinated fashion to ensure that each display region is perceived at a desired level of brightness.

In one embodiment a regional brightness control scheme combines the use of a backlight array of independently controllable light sources as previously described with regional pixel intensity control. The advantages of such a control scheme will now be described with reference to . illustrates a front perspective view of a display panel . Display panel includes a pixel array that includes a first portion and a second portion wherein each of first portion and second portion includes a different subset of the pixels in pixel array . It is to be assumed that first portion of pixel array is illuminated by backlighting provided by an aligned first portion of a backlight array not shown in wherein the backlight array is similar to backlight array described above in reference to . Second portion of pixel array is illuminated by backlighting provided by an aligned second portion of the backlight array. In one example the amount of light emitted by each light source in the second portion of the backlight array to illuminate second portion of pixel array is controlled such that it is greater than the amount of light emitted by each light source in the first portion of the backlight array to illuminate first portion of pixel array . This control scheme may be applied for example to cause a three dimensional image formed by interaction between the pixels in second portion of pixel array and an adaptable parallax barrier to appear to have a uniform brightness level with respect to a two dimensional image formed by interaction between the pixels in first portion of pixel array and the adaptable parallax barrier.

However the difference in the amount of light emitted by each light source in the first and second portions of the backlight array to illuminate corresponding first and second portions and of pixel array may also give rise to undesired visual artifacts. In particular the difference may cause pixels in boundary areas immediately outside of second portion of pixel array to appear brighter than desired in relation to other pixels in first portion of pixel array . For example as shown in the pixels in boundary area immediately outside of second portion of pixel array may appear brighter than desired in relation to other pixels in first portion of pixel array . This may be due to the fact that the increased luminosity provided by the light sources in the second portion of the backlight array has spilled over to impact the pixels in boundary area causing those pixels to be brighter than desired. Conversely the difference may cause pixels in boundary areas immediately inside of second portion of pixel array to appear dimmer than desired in relation to other pixels in second portion of pixel array . For example as shown in the pixels in boundary area immediately inside of second portion of pixel array may appear dimmer than desired in relation to other pixels in second portion of pixel array . This may be due to the fact that the reduced luminosity of the light sources in the first portion of the backlight array has spilled over to impact the pixels in boundary area causing those pixels to be dimmer than desired.

To address this issue an embodiment may selectively control the amount of light passed by the pixels located in boundary region or boundary region to compensate for the undesired visual effects. For example driver circuitry associated with pixel array may selectively cause the pixels included in boundary area of pixel array to pass less light from the backlight panel i.e. become less intense thereby reducing the brightness of the pixels in boundary area thus compensating for an undesired increase in brightness due to spill over from light sources in the second portion of the backlight array. Alternatively or additionally driver circuitry associated with pixel array may selectively cause the pixels included in boundary area of pixel array to pass more light from the backlight panel i.e. become more intense thereby increasing the brightness of the pixels in boundary area thus compensating for an undesired reduction in brightness due to spill over from light sources in the first portion of the backlight array. By controlling the intensity of the pixels in boundary areas and in this manner the undesired visual effects described above that can arise from the use of a backlight array to provide regional brightness control can be mitigated or avoided entirely.

The illustration provided in provides only one example of undesired visual effects that can arise from the use of a backlight array to provide regional brightness control. Persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that many different display regions having many different brightness characteristics can be simultaneously generated by a display system in accordance with embodiments thereby giving rise to different undesired visual effects relating to the brightness of boundary areas inside and outside of the different display regions. In each case the intensity of pixels located in such boundaries areas can be selectively increased or reduced to mitigate or avoid such undesired visual effects.

In additional embodiments a regional brightness control scheme is implemented in a display system that does not include a backlight panel at all but instead utilizes a display panel comprising an array of organic light emitting diodes OLEDs or polymer light emitting diodes PLEDs which function as display pixels and also provide their own illumination. Display system described above in reference to may be representative of such a system provided that pixel array comprises an array of OLEDs or PLEDs. In accordance with such an implementation the amount of light emitted by the individual OLED PLED pixels that make up the OLED PLED pixel array can be selectively controlled so that the brightness associated with each of a plurality of display regions of display system can also be controlled. This enables display system to provide a desired brightness level for each display region automatically and or in response to user input. For example the OLED PLED pixel array can be controlled such that a uniform level of brightness is achieved across different simultaneously displayed display regions even though the number of perceptible pixels per unit area varies from display region to display region. As another example the OLED PLED pixel array can be controlled such that the level of brightness associated with a particular display region is increased or reduced without impacting or without substantially impacting the brightness of other simultaneously displayed display regions.

Where OLED PLED pixel regions such as those described above are adjacent to each other it is possible that the brightness characteristics of one pixel region can impact the perceived brightness of an adjacent pixel region having different brightness characteristics creating an undesired visual effect. For example a first OLED PLED pixel region having a relatively high level of brightness to support the viewing of multi view three dimensional content may be adjacent to a second OLED PLED pixel region having a relatively low level of brightness to support the viewing of two dimensional content. In this scenario light from pixels in a perimeter area of the first OLED PLED pixel region that are close to the boundary between the two pixel regions may spill over into a perimeter area of the second OLED PLED pixel region. This may cause pixels in the perimeter area of the second OLED PLED pixel region to appear brighter than desired in relation to other pixels in the second OLED PLED pixel region. Conversely pixels in the perimeter area of the first OLED PLED pixel array may appear dimmer than desired in relation to other pixels in the first OLED PLED pixel region because of the adjacency to the second OLED PLED pixel region. To address this issue it is possible to selectively increase or reduce the brightness of one or more OLED PLED pixels in either perimeter area to reduce the spill over effect arising from the different brightness characteristics between the regions.

In still further embodiments a regional brightness control scheme is implemented in a display system that includes an adaptable parallax barrier that also supports brightness regulation via an overlay approach. Such an approach involves the use of a brightness regulation overlay that is either independent of or integrated with an adaptable parallax barrier. The brightness regulation overlay is used to help achieve the aforementioned goals of maintaining standard brightness across various regional screen configurations and compensating for or minimizing backlighting dispersion.

The brightness regulation overlay comprises an element that allows regional dimming through various tones of grey pixels. In one example embodiment an adaptable parallax barrier and the brightness regulation overlay are implemented as a non color i.e. black white and grayscale LCD sandwich although other implementations may be used. The combined adaptable parallax barrier and brightness regulation overlay provide full transparent or opaque states for each pixel as well as a grayscale alternative that can be used to balance out brightness variations caused by the parallax barrier itself.

Control over the individual barrier elements of the parallax barrier and the individual grayscale pixels of the brightness regulation overlay may be provided by using coordinated driver circuitry signaling. Such coordinate signaling may cause the pixels of the adaptable parallax barrier and the brightness regulation overlay collectively referred to below as the manipulator pixels to create opaque and transparent barrier elements associated with a particular parallax barrier configuration and a grayscale support there between to allow creation of overlays.

A first exemplary configuration of adaptable light manipulator is shown above the section line denoted with reference numeral . In accordance with the first exemplary configuration a three dimensional region is created with fully transparent or fully opaque manipulator pixels that provide parallax barrier functionality and a two dimensional region is created having continuous medium gray manipulator pixels. The medium gray manipulator pixels operate to reduce the perceived brightness of two dimensional region to better match that of three dimensional region . It is noted that in other example configurations two dimensional region could instead comprise a three dimensional region having a number of views that is different than three dimensional region thus also requiring brightness regulation.

In the first exemplary configuration no boundary region compensation is performed. In the second exemplary configuration which is shown below section line boundary region compensation is performed. For example a boundary region within two dimensional region may be lightened to a light gray to compensate for any diminution of light that might occur near the boundary with three dimensional region . In contrast the grayscale level of an inner portion of two dimensional region is maintained at the same medium gray level as in the portion of two dimensional region above section line . As a further example a first boundary region and a second boundary region within three dimensional region comprise darker and lighter gray transitional areas respectively to account for light dispersion from two dimensional region . In contrast an inner portion of three dimensional region includes only fully transparent or fully opaque manipulator pixels consistent with a parallax barrier configuration and no brightness regulation.

In one embodiment the configuration of adaptable light manipulator is achieved by first creating a white through various grayscale areas that correspond to the regions and boundary areas to be formed. Once established the manipulator pixels in these areas that comprise the opaque portions of the parallax barrier are overwritten to turn them black. Of course this two stage approach is conceptual only and no overwriting need be performed.

In certain embodiments adaptable light manipulator comprises the only component used in a display system for performing brightness regulation and or boundary region compensation. In alternate embodiments the display system further utilizes any one or more of the following aforementioned techniques for performing brightness regulation and or boundary region compensation a backlight array with independently controllable light sources and or a pixel array and associated control logic for selectively increasing or decreasing the intensity of display pixels e.g. either LCD pixels or OLED PLED pixels . Note that in certain embodiments such as the one described above in reference to adaptable light manipulator is implemented as an integrated adaptable parallax barrier and brightness regulation overlay. However in alternate embodiments adaptable light manipulator is implemented using an adaptable parallax barrier panel and an independent brightness regulation overlay panel.

In display systems in accordance with further embodiments rather than using an adaptable parallax barrier to perform light manipulation in support of multiple viewing configurations an adaptable lenticular lens may be used. For example with respect to example display system of adaptable parallax barrier may be replaced with an adaptable lenticular lens. Likewise with respect to example display system of adaptable parallax barrier may be replaced with an adaptable lenticular lens.

Further description regarding the use of an adaptable lenticular lens to deliver three dimensional views is provided in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Display systems in accordance with further embodiments may include multiple layers of light manipulators. Such display systems may enable multiple three dimensional images to be displayed in a viewing space. The multiple light manipulating layers may enable spatial separation of the images. For instance in accordance with one embodiment a display device that includes multiple light manipulator layers may be configured to display a first three dimensional image in a first region of a viewing space e.g. a left side area a second three dimensional image in a second region of the viewing space e.g. a central area a third three dimensional image in a third region of the viewing space e.g. a right side area etc. In fact a display device that includes multiple light manipulator layers may be configured to display any number of spatially separated three dimensional images as desired for a particular application e.g. according to a number and spacing of viewers in the viewing space etc. .

Light is received at first light manipulator from pixel array . Pixel array driver circuitry may generate drive signals based on a control signal received from control circuitry not shown in and drive signals may be received by pixel array to generate light . Each pixel of pixel array may generate light that is received at first light manipulator . In an embodiment pixel array driver circuitry may generate drive signals to cause pixel array to emit light containing a plurality of images corresponding to the sets of pixels.

First light manipulator may be configured to manipulate light received from pixel array . As shown in first light manipulator includes light manipulator elements configured to perform manipulating e.g. filtering diverting etc. of light to generate manipulated light . Light manipulator elements may optionally be configurable to adjust the manipulating performed by first light manipulator . First light manipulator may perform filtering in a similar manner as an adaptable parallax barrier described above or in other manner. In another embodiment first light manipulator may include a lenticular lens that diverts light to perform light manipulating generating manipulated light . In an embodiment light manipulator driver circuitry may generate drive signals based on control signal received by driver circuitry to cause light manipulator elements to manipulate light as desired.

Manipulated light is received by second light manipulator to generate manipulated light that includes a plurality of three dimensional images formed in a viewing space . As shown in second light manipulator includes light manipulator elements configured to perform manipulating of manipulated light to generate manipulated light . Light manipulator elements may optionally be configurable to adjust the manipulating performed by second light manipulator . In an embodiment light manipulator driver circuitry may generate drive signals based on control signal to cause light manipulator elements to manipulate manipulated light to generate manipulated light including three dimensional images as desired. In embodiments second light manipulator may include an adaptable parallax barrier or lenticular lens configured to manipulate manipulated light to generate manipulated light .

As such screen of display system supports multiple viewers with media content in the form of three dimensional images or views. Screen may provide a first three dimensional view based on first three dimensional media content to a first viewer a second three dimensional view based on second three dimensional media content to a second viewer and optionally further three dimensional views based on further three dimensional media content to further viewers. First and second light manipulators and each cause three dimensional media content to be presented to a corresponding viewer via a corresponding area of screen with each viewer being enabled to view corresponding media content without viewing media content directed to other viewers. Furthermore the areas of screen that provide the various three dimensional views of media content overlap each other at least in part. In the embodiment of the areas may be the same area. As such multiple three dimensional views that are each viewable by a corresponding viewer may be delivered by a single screen. Embodiments of display system may also be configured to generate two dimensional views as well as any combination of one or more two dimensional views simultaneously with one or more three dimensional views.

As shown in control circuitry includes a processing unit which may comprise one or more general purpose or special purpose processors or one or more processing cores. Processing unit is connected to a communication infrastructure such as a communication bus. Control circuitry may also include a primary or main memory not shown in such as random access memory RAM that is connected to communication infrastructure . The main memory may have control logic stored thereon for execution by processing unit as well as data stored thereon that may be input to or output by processing unit during execution of such control logic.

Control circuitry may also include one or more secondary storage devices not shown in that are connected to communication infrastructure including but not limited to a hard disk drive a removable storage drive such as an optical disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive or the like or an interface for communicating with a removable storage unit such as an interface for communicating with a memory card memory stick or the like. Each of these secondary storage devices provide an additional means for storing control logic for execution by processing unit as well as data that may be input to or output by processing unit during execution of such control logic.

Control circuitry further includes a set top box circuitry interface a user input interface and a viewer tracking unit . Set top box circuitry interface comprises an interface by which control circuitry can communicate with set top box circuitry such as set top box circuitry described above in reference to or set top box circuitry described above in reference to . Control circuitry may receive media content from a set top box via set top box circuitry interface provide constraint or capability information to set top box circuitry via set top box circuitry interface and also receive signals for controlling a configuration of screen assembly via set top box circuitry interface .

User input interface is intended to generally represent any type of interface that may be used to receive user input including but not limited to a remote control device a traditional computer input device such as a keyboard or mouse a touch screen a gamepad or other type of gaming console input device or one or more sensors including but not limited to video cameras microphones and motion sensors.

Viewer tracking unit is intended to generally represent any type of functionality for determining or estimating a location of one or more viewers of display system and or a head orientation of one or more viewers of display system . Viewer tracking unit may perform such functions using different types of sensors e.g. cameras motion sensors microphones or the like or by using tracking systems such as those that wirelessly track an object e.g. headset remote control or the like currently being held or worn by a viewer.

Control circuitry further includes a communication interface . Communication interface enables control circuitry to send control signals via a communication medium to another communication interface within driver circuitry thereby enabling control circuitry to control the operation of driver circuitry . Communication medium may comprise any kind of wired or wireless communication medium suitable for transmitting such control signals.

As shown in driver circuitry includes the aforementioned communication interface as well as pixel array driver circuitry and adaptable light manipulator driver circuitry . Driver circuitry also optionally includes light generator driver circuitry . Each of these driver circuitry elements is configured to receive control signals from control circuitry via the link between communication interface and communication interface and responsive thereto to send selected drive signals to a corresponding hardware element within screen assembly the drive signals causing the corresponding hardware element to operate in a particular manner. In particular pixel array driver circuitry is configured to send selected drive signals to a pixel array within screen assembly adaptable light manipulator driver circuitry is configured to send selected drive signals to an adaptable light manipulator within screen assembly and optional light generator driver circuitry is configured to send selected drive signals to an optional light generator within screen assembly .

In one example mode of operation processing unit operates pursuant to control logic to receive media content via set top box circuitry interface and to generate control signals necessary to cause driver circuitry to render such video content to screen assembly in accordance with a selected viewing configuration. The control logic that is executed by processing unit may be retrieved for example from a primary memory or a secondary storage device connected to processing unit via communication infrastructure as discussed above. The control logic may also be retrieved from some other local or remote source.

Among other features driver circuitry may be controlled in a manner described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 031 filed on even date herewith and entitled Coordinated Driving of Adaptable Light Manipulator Backlighting and Pixel Array in Support of Adaptable 2D and 3D Displays the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein to send coordinated drive signals necessary for displaying two dimensional media content 3D2 media content and 3Dx media content wherein x is a multiple of 2 via the screen. In certain operating modes such content may be simultaneously displayed via different display regions of the screen. The manner in which pixel array adaptable light manipulator e.g. an adaptable parallax barrier and light generator may be manipulated in a coordinated fashion to perform this function was described in the patent application referenced immediately above. Note that in accordance with certain implementations e.g. implementations in which pixel array comprises a OLED PLED pixel array screen assembly need not include light generator .

In one embodiment at least part of the function of generating control signals necessary to cause pixel array adaptable light manipulator and light generator to render media content to screen assembly in accordance with a selected viewing configuration is performed by drive signal processing circuitry which is integrated within driver circuitry . Such circuitry may operate for example in conjunction with and or under the control of processing unit to generate the necessary control signals.

In certain implementations control circuitry driver circuitry and screen elements are all included within a single housing. For example and without limitation all these elements may exist within a television a laptop computer a tablet computer or a telephone. In accordance with such an implementation link formed between communication interfaces and may be replaced by a direct connection between driver circuitry and communication infrastructure . In accordance with further implementations the single housing may also include the set top box circuitry that is connected to set top box circuitry interface .

In an alternate implementation control circuitry is disposed within a first housing and driver circuitry and screen are disposed within a second housing. In accordance with further implementations the first housing may also include the set top box circuitry that is connected to set top box circuitry interface .

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

