---

title: Communication ranking and organization
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are disclosed herein for organizing communication information. Data received associated with a communication is recorded at the communication device. An identifier is associated with the communication. The identifier indicates a unique identity. A call score is calculated for the identifier at the communication device based on the communication. The particular identifier is ranked in a list in accordance with the calculated call score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08619958&OS=08619958&RS=08619958
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08619958
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100209
---
The embodiments generally relate towards managing data on a communication device and more specifically to organizing a communication lists by sorting IDs based on the number of communications made and how recently they were made.

Conventional communication systems may or may not support storage and display of callers and or call lists. However most modern devices support some ability to display callers and or call lists. For example a fixed terminal e.g. a land line phone in an office may have a large display that can show many entries and even multiple keys for accessing entries based on categories name etc. However in mobile terminals the displays and display options are not normally as extensive.

Smaller and more powerful mobile personal computing devices are typically severely resource constrained. For example the screen size amount of available memory and file system space input and output capabilities and processing capability may each be limited by the small size of the device.

Because of the small screen size it is often inconvenient to scroll through a long list of phone numbers in order to access a particular phone number that is desired. This can be quite inconvenient if the numbers that are most relevant to a user are at the end of the list and or if the amount of phone calls that are received are relatively large.

Accordingly it would be beneficial to allow more options for organizing data including a calling list.

Exemplary embodiments disclosed herein are directed towards methods for organizing communications information.

Accordingly an embodiment can include a method for organizing communications at a communication device comprising recording data associated with a communication at the communication device associating an identifier with the communication wherein the identifier indicates a unique identity calculating a call score for the identifier at the communication device based on the communication and ranking the identifier in a list in accordance with the calculated call score.

Another embodiment can include a communication device including a communications organizer comprising means for recording data associated with a communication at the communication device means for associating an identifier with the communication wherein the identifier indicates a unique identity means for calculating a call score for the identifier at the communication device based on the communication and means for ranking the identifier in a list in accordance with the calculated call score.

Another embodiment can include a method for organizing communications at a communication device comprising a step for recording data associated with a communication at the communication device a step for associating an identifier with the communication based on the recorded data wherein the identifier indicates a unique identity a step for calculating a call score for the identifier at the communication device based on the communication and a step for ranking the identifier in a list in accordance with the calculated call score.

Another embodiment can include a communication device including a communications organizer comprising logic configured to record data associated with a communication at the communication device logic configured to associate an identifier with the communication wherein the identifier indicates a unique identity logic configured to calculate a call score for the identifier at the communication device based on the communication and logic configured to rank the identifier in a list in accordance with the calculated call score.

Aspects of the various embodiments are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the described embodiments.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments does not require that all embodiments include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the embodiments disclosed. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller and or mobile switching center MSC . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network can transport data packets to from and between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Embodiments can thus be realized on any form of access terminal including a wireless communication portal or having wireless communication capabilities including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof. Further as used herein the terms subscriber terminal access terminal wireless device client device mobile terminal and variations thereof may be used interchangeably.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation wireless network carrier the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages conventionally sent as data packets sent to a MPC MSC . The carrier network may communicate with the MPC MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the MPC MSC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Conventionally the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MPC MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MPC MSC is conventionally connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast voice and data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS MPC MSC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the various embodiments are not limited to the configuration illustrated.

Referring to the access terminal such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is conventionally a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display keypad push to talk button audio input and audio output among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The following description of the disclosed embodiments is directed mainly to voice calls and pre programmed messages in response thereto. However the embodiments are not limited to these examples. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments can include audio data video data text messaging Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP calls push to talk PTT calls and the like. Accordingly the examples provided herein are solely for purposes of illustration of the embodiments and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments.

As used herein access terminal client device wireless device or client computing device includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein. Some examples of access terminals or wireless devices which may be used in accordance with various embodiments includes cellular telephones or other wireless communication units PDAs laptops paging devices navigation devices e.g. GPS based systems handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the client device and the BTS can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the global system for mobile communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device BTS and MSC . The MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the client device access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing in addition to voice transmission data can be transmitted to the client device via SMS data channels broadcast channels or other over the air methods known in the art.

As discussed in the background section conventional systems provide limited alternatives for organizing communications e.g. incoming outgoing calls . Conventional systems merely record the calls in the temporal order that they were received.

In general cellular phones have small displays viewing screens. When a user accesses a phone directory or list of calls it is often necessary to inconveniently scroll through a long list of phone numbers in order to access the particular phone number that is desired. This can be a considerable inconvenience to the user as well as causing unwanted delays.

Referring to a flowchart illustrating aspects of at least one embodiment is provided. A communication is received sent and organized at a communication device . The organization process is any type of organization that maintains the identity and integrity of the incoming outgoing data in a convenient manner or in a manner desired by the user. The following description will describe one exemplary method of organizing the data e.g. caller ID IP addresses time of day duration type of communication etc. obtained from the communication. As mentioned earlier those skilled in the art will appreciate that the data received at the communication device can exist in many different forms such as telephone calls text messages multimedia messages audio data video data and the like.

The data is recorded at the communication device . The data can be recorded in total partially or in any combination thereof. Additionally the data can be in the form of one large data set a plurality of data sets that make up a larger data set or any combination thereof. Further it will be appreciated that all or a portion of the data may only be recorded temporarily for processing and then discarded.

The communication or data is identified . For example the identification process can include extracting a caller ID phone number or name. In the alternative the identification can involve determining the type of communication e.g. voice call text message PTT VoIP and identify data e.g. caller ID phone number name email address Internet Protocol IP address . Still further it will be appreciated that multiple levels of ranking can be employed. For example a specific identifier can be ranked by itself but it may also be aggregated to combination ranking such as an individual who has multiple identifiers associated e.g. work home mobile email . Accordingly ranking may be aggregated so that the total number of monitored communications with a party of interest may be determined.

An identifier is associated with a particular data set residing within the received data wherein the origination identifier is used to identify pertinent characteristics relating to the data set. For example the origination identifier indicates a unique source of origin and an identification mechanism for the particular data set within the received data. For example if an incoming call includes the data of interest then the origination identifier is the phone number associated with the incoming call.

A call score is calculated to denote at least a time the particular data set was received and a frequency of occurrence for the particular data set in a plurality of transmissions to the communication device . In one embodiment the call score can be thought of as a set of data including the raw score itself and other information associated e.g. time type of call etc. with each listed identifier e.g. number . This could be represented by a structure such as 

The lastCallTime and lastAgedTime can be represented any of several standard ways for instance but not limited to separate fields for month day year hour minutes and seconds or the number of seconds minutes days and or months elapsed since a reference time e.g. Jan. 1 1970 .

In at least one embodiment a score calculation can be performed in a manner similar to that illustrated by the pseudo code provided below and further discussed in .

Once the SCOREFACTOR is determined in the call score can be determined and checked in comparison to a maximum value e.g. MAXINT . If the call score plus the SCOREFACTOR is not greater than the maximum value the call score is incremented by the SCOREFACTOR. If the call score plus the SCOREFACTOR is greater than the maximum value the call score is set to the maximum value. Establishing a maximum value for the call score can prevent short time actions such as a series of calls to one party for a given transaction from overwhelming consistently called numbers. For example the aging function described below in combination with a maximum call score can reduce the long term impact of a single set of transactions.

Referring back to the particular data set is ranked in a list in accordance with the calculated call score . Optionally in an ignoreNumber flag can be set for certain numbers so they are masked from the ranked data that is displayed. The ranked data set e.g. call list directory etc. is then displayed to the user less any numbers with the ignoreNumber set . The process may continuously update itself and may return to receiving data when new data such as a new phone call is received.

For example phone numbers can be sorted based on the number of calls made and how recently they were made. This would allow a number that was called once a week ago to appear higher in the list than a number that was called once a month ago. Therefore by having a listing sorted by frequency and time since the calls were made highest ranked numbers can appear in the phone directory in the beginning so that a user does not have to scroll inconveniently to get to the numbers.

In another embodiment the communication may be a phone call. In the phone call is received made at a communication device . If this is a phone call that a user is not interested in tracking or maintaining a record of then this particular phone call number is not logged and nothing is done . If the phone call is one that a user is interested in tracking or maintaining a record of then the particular phone call number is logged and a previous call score associated with that particular phone call is incremented or manipulated in some other manner to change the call score and the information including the phone number call score and current date time is collected .

The user can indicate if they are interested not interested in the call in various ways e.g. only those in the phone book a separate set of numbers selected by the user particular area code s etc. In additional embodiments the list of interested calls numbers can also include other possibilities such as all incoming calls all outgoing calls incoming text picture messages outgoing text picture messages etc. Each of these lists can be configured as being of interest or not of interest and can be combined in different orders and priorities. For example a list can be subject to a set of filtering rules that are applied in a specific order to further refine combination filters e.g. text messages from a particular area code .

Alternatively all calls can be tracked in some embodiments e.g. the decision in is skipped . The user may specifying an ignore option the in the address book or directly in the sorted list. This could set the ignoreNumber flag in CallScore. In some embodiments even if with ignoreNumber set these numbers could be sorted tracked but not displayed e.g. as discussed above in relation to . It will be appreciated that the foregoing examples are provided for discussion and to aid in understanding the various embodiments and do not limit embodiments to the listed examples. A current date time associated with the incremented call score is stored . Based upon their respective scores the received calls are ranked .

In another embodiment a recalculation function can be provided. The recalculation function can process stored call information e.g. in a call log for numbers that are changed from the ignore status. For example once the ignoreNumber flag is changed so the number is no longer ignored the routine can be processed only for the changed number looking at stored call records. Accordingly any calls that were previously logged can be used to preload the CallScore value so the rankings will be reflective of the recent activity instead of the number just being initialized to a zero state.

An aging interval can be applied to the process by which phone numbers that have not been used recently are reduced in priority and the list can be resorted. The aging process could be performed after each call on demand for example immediately before the calling list is to be displayed or in the background at regular intervals such as once a day once an hour etc depending on considerations such as user experience performance and or battery level.

The aging function calculation can be designed to slowly move numbers further down the list when they have not been used for a while. An example of how this calculation could be performed is provided in the pseudo code below 

An example of an aging process flowchart is provided in . As noted above based on some action or interval the rankings are updated . The rankings can be determined in a variety of manners as discussed above in relation to B and . The date time last used is examined and this information is then compared to when the last rank was updated . An aging interval refers to how old or in the alternative how fresh a specific data set is.

If the aging interval is not greater than a threshold value the call score is not adjusted and the process moves on to the next record and increment through each record until all are updated. Each record e.g. entry in directory list can be evaluated each time a change in the call score rank is detected or on some other interval as discussed above. For purposes of the description when a call score is incremented or increased in value it means that it has a higher priority rank than a lower valued score. In the foregoing examples it was assumed that a higher score has a higher priority. However it will also be appreciated that any ranking scheme can be used in various embodiments e.g. a lower score could have a higher priority .

If the aging interval is greater than a threshold value in then the call score can be adjusted based on an aging factor . For example the call score could be adjusted as illustrated in the foregoing pseudo code. Alternatively the call score could be adjusted in any other way e.g. a simple decrement of a counter etc. and it will be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited to the specific examples provided herein.

In another embodiment the numbers list can additionally be updated based on the number of calls received from that number. In this embodiment the most used numbers appear higher in the list.

In another embodiment numbers could be marked to be ignored by the sorting process. Conventional systems have typically addressed this problem by using assigned speed dial numbers or by dividing numbers into groups such as VIP Work or Family . For example numbers on speed dial need not appear high in the list.

In another embodiment a hysteresis function could be implemented so that two numbers called frequently would not continually swap places in the list. This function could be a mathematical algorithm that would dampen or control the oscillation of two entries that are so close in rankings that they continue to swap into and out of the lead position in the list. This oscillation back and forth could be potentially distracting and irritating to an end user. A weighting factor could be used to dampen the oscillation and not change until a certain amount of calls or data entries have been registered. Until a certain level or value of weighting is attained the position in the list would not change until a threshold value is reached.

For example to implement a hysteresis function when sorting the call score can be compared between records but only changed when the call score is greater than the current rank and thus the ordering of the list when the difference between two records exceeds a given threshold. To be useful that is to prevent the constant swapping of two equally frequently called numbers the hysteresis threshold should be larger than the SCOREFACTOR.

Further the arrangement of the logic elements is merely for the convenience of illustration and should not be construed as limiting the embodiments. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the functionality of the logic elements described herein may be integrated into one element or distributed as desired among various hardware and software elements.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there is no particular order of performing and executing the method functional blocks intended or implied in the preceding description. The foregoing methods discussed above can be used by themselves or in any combination thereof to achieve the same objective.

Also as will be appreciated from the foregoing examples embodiments can include apparatuses and systems for performing the functions discussed herein. For example an embodiment can include an apparatus such as the access terminal in including logic configured to receive a communication logic configured to identify the communication logic configured to associate the communication with a pre programmed response and logic configured to respond to the communication using the pre programmed response. However in other embodiments as discussed herein the logic may reside on a server or a combination of both an access terminal and a server in communication with the access terminal. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the functionalities described herein may be embodied in may forms and may be integrated into a single device or separated over many devices in communication with one another. Accordingly the illustrated embodiments are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any of the functions described herein can be embodied as various logic elements whether hardware software computer readable media or combinations of each in the apparatus. For example embodiments can include among other functions described herein communication device further having a communications organizer comprising logic configured to record data associated with a communication at the communication device logic configured to associate an identifier with the communication wherein the identifier indicates a unique identity logic configured to calculate a call score for the identifier at the communication device based on the communication and logic configured to rank the identifier in a list in accordance with the calculated call score. Accordingly embodiments are not limited to the logical elements expressly discussed herein.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the embodiments.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. The logic may also be implemented using a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in an access terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in the access terminal.

Accordingly at least one embodiment can include a computer readable media embodying a method for pre programmed subscriber responses as discussed herein. Accordingly the various embodiments are not limited to the illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in the various embodiments.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

