---

title: Call center call parker
abstract: A call parker monitors calls between callers and a call center to determine the number of active calls to the call center. A maximum call center capacity is identified and compared to the number of active calls to determine if the maximum call center capacity is being met. If the maximum call center capacity has been met, new calls are intercepted and placed on hold until the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met (i.e., an agent completes a call). Once the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met, the new call(s) are transferred to the call center.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08761362&OS=08761362&RS=08761362
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 08761362
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101210
---
The system and method relates to call centers and more specifically to systems and methods for handling high call volumes in call centers.

Typically when a caller calls into a call center the caller will be directed through an Interactive Voice Response IVR system and then be placed in a waiting queue until the caller is serviced by an agent. This works well when the call volume does not exceed the maximum capacity of the call center. However call centers can experience peak call volume periods where the capacity of the call center is exceeded. When a caller calls in during these peak periods the caller will be unable to connect to the call center and will only get a busy signal. This can result in lost calls and reduced customer satisfaction.

One option is to upgrade the call center so that the call center can handle these peak periods. Upgrading the call center with new hardware software and additional agents can solve this problem. Upgrades to the call center to handle additional calls are typically very expensive due to the expense of upgrading the capability of IVR systems and other hardware software for processing the higher volume of calls. Moreover in many cases it requires the call center to completely replace existing systems which can be cost prohibitive. In many cases the excessive cost cannot be justified in situations where these peak periods occur infrequently. What is needed is a cost effective solution that will handle these higher peak call periods while preserving the existing call center hardware software.

The system and method are directed to solving these and other problems and disadvantages of the prior art. A call parker monitors calls between callers and a call center to determine the number of active calls to the call center. A maximum call center capacity is identified and compared to the number of active calls to determine if the maximum call center capacity is being met. If the maximum call center capacity has been met new calls are intercepted and placed on hold until the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met i.e. an agent completes a call . Once the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met the new call s are transferred to the call center.

The process of determining that the call center is at maximum capacity can be determined in a variety of ways such as looking for SIP BUSY messages from the call center by monitoring the number of active calls by user administered parameters by querying the call center and the like. The monitored calls can be audio and or video calls.

Some embodiments will be illustrated below in conjunction with an exemplary communication system. Although well suited for use with e.g. a system using switch es server s and or database s communications endpoints etc. the embodiments are not limited to use with any particular type of communication system or configuration of system elements. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed techniques may be used in any communication application in which it is desirable to provide enhanced monitoring of a call center. These variations shall be discussed herein as the various embodiments are set forth.

Call parker can be any device or combination of devices that can monitor audio and or video calls such as a server a router a network analyzer a switch and the like. Call parker further comprises call processor call monitor and media streamer . Call processor can be any hardware software that can process audio and or video calls. Call processor can process a variety of protocols such as Session Initiation Protocol SIP H.323 video protocols Plain Old Telephone Service POTS Integrated Digital Services Network ISDN Internet Protocol IP and the like. Call monitor can be any hardware software that can monitor audio and or video calls such as a protocol analyzer a packet monitor and the like. Media streamer can be any device that can stream a media signal such as an Interactive Voice Response IVR system an audio server a video server and the like.

Call center can be any call center that can process calls to or from callers such as a contact center. Call center can support various types of calls such as audio calls video calls emails Instant Messages and the like. Call center typically has agents that handle the calls as they come in to call center . Calls can be processed by call center in various ways such as with IVRs placing calls into call queues routing calls based on caller information and the like. Incoming calls to call center are typically processed by agents when the agents become available to process calls that have been placed in waiting queues. Call center can also comprise Application Programming Interface API . Application Programming Interface is an interface that can be called programmatically to get information from call center .

Call monitor identifies a maximum call center capacity. The maximum call center capacity is the number of active calls that call center can support without responding that call center is busy or has reached call capacity and cannot handle any more incoming calls. An active call can be any type of call that has not been dropped or terminated such as a call that is being handled by an agent a call that is placed in a queue a call that is on hold and the like. The maximum call center capacity can be based on a number of audio calls a number of video calls or a combination of both. The maximum call center capacity can be based on the number of calls into call center the number of calls placed from call center or a combination of both.

The maximum call center capacity can be identified in various ways. For example call monitor can identify the maximum call center capacity by getting the maximum call center capacity from an administrated parameter the administered parameter tells call monitor how many calls call center can support. Call monitor can then monitor the number of active calls into call center to determine when the maximum call center capacity has been met by determining how many calls are active and comparing that number to the maximum call center capacity. If the number of active calls is equal to the maximum call center capacity then the maximum call center capacity has been met. Call monitor is constantly monitoring the active calls to call center to determine if the maximum call center capacity is still being met.

In response to determining that the maximum call center capacity has been met call processor intercepts a new call request to call center . A new call request can be for example a SIP INVITE. One skilled in the art will recognize that the type and format of a new call request will vary depending on the protocol s that are used to make the call. Intercepting a call request can be done various ways. For example call processor can respond to a SIP INVITE instead of passing the SIP invite to call center . Call processor places the new call on hold. While the call is placed on hold media streamer can optionally stream a message to the caller indicating that call center is experiencing heavy call volumes.

Call monitor determines that the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met. For example call monitor can determine that the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met by detecting that an agent or a caller has dropped a call to call center . In response to the maximum call center capacity no longer being met call processor transfers the new call to call center . Call center can now process the new call using traditional methods.

Call monitor identifies the maximum call center capacity. Call monitor monitors calls to call center to determine a number of active calls to call center . If it is determined that the number of calls into call center is not at equal to the maximum call center capacity in step the process goes to step . Otherwise if it is determined that the number of active calls into call center is at the maximum call center capacity in step the process goes to step . Call processor looks for a new call into call center in step . If there is not a new call to call center in step the process goes to step . Otherwise if there is a new call to call center in step call processor intercepts the new call and places the new call on hold. The process then goes to step .

Call monitor determines if the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met in step . Call monitor can determine this by monitoring the call signaling messages to determine that a call into call center has been completed e.g. by seeing a SIP BYE message from call center based on this call monitor will know that the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met because the number of active calls will now be one call below the maximum call center capacity. If the call center capacity is still at maximum in step the process goes to step to look for a new call. Otherwise if the call center capacity is no longer at maximum in step call processor determines in step if any calls are on hold. If no calls are on hold in step the process goes to step . Otherwise if there is a call s on hold in step call processor transfers the call s on hold to call center and the process goes to step . The actual number of calls that are transferred to call center depends on whether the transferred call s brings the total number of calls up to the maximum call center capacity.

For example assume that the maximum call center capacity is one hundred calls and that two new calls had been placed on hold while waiting for call center to complete a call drop below the maximum call center capacity at this point call processor will only transfer a single call to call center because transferring the single call brings the number of active calls back up to the maximum call center capacity 100 calls . If call processor tried to transfer the second new call call center would not be able to process the additional call because it would be above the maximum call center capacity.

In step call monitor determines if the number of active calls including the transferred calls is at the maximum call center capacity. If the number of active calls is at the maximum call center capacity in step the process goes to step to look for any new calls. Otherwise if the number of active calls is not at the maximum call center capacity in step the process goes to step .

An old caller s call is dropped. For example an agent in call center has hung up resulting in the SIP BYE being sent in step to the old caller s communication device A. The old caller s communication device A responds to the SIP BYE by sending a SIP OK in step to call center . By monitoring the messages sent in steps and call monitor can determine that the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met because there is one less call being handled by call center . Based on the maximum call center capacity no longer being met call processor sends a SIP BYE in step to media streamer . Media streamer responds to the SIP BYE in step with a SIP OK. Call processor sends a SIP INVITE in step to call center . Call center responds to the SIP INVITE with a SIP RINGING message in step . When the call is answered by call center a SIP OK is sent in step .

Call processor also sends a SIP RE INVITE to the new caller s communication device B in step . The new caller s communication device B responds to the SIP RE INVITE with a SIP OK in step . Call processor sends a SIP ACK in step to call center and a SIP ACK to the new caller s communication device B in step . This effectively transfers the new call from call parker to call center . An RTP media stream can now be sent between the new caller s communication device B and call center in step . The information sent in step can be for example the video of a user interacting with a video Interactive Voice Response IVR system or the user talking to an agent in call center .

Call processor sends a SIP INVITE to media streamer in step . Media streamer answers in step the SIP INVITE by responding with a SIP RINGING message and a SIP OK in step . New caller s communication device B responds to the SIP OK by sending a SIP ACK to media streamer in step . The result is that the new call is placed on hold by media streamer instead of going to call center . Media streamer can now stream in step via a Real time Transport Protocol RTP media stream various messages to the new caller such as call center is experiencing heavy call volumes to new caller s communication device B.

An old caller s call is dropped. In this example the old caller has hung up resulting in the SIP BYE being sent in step to call center . Call center responds to the SIP BYE by sending a SIP OK in step to the old caller s communication device A. Based on steps and call monitor can determine that the maximum call center capacity is no longer being met because there is one less call being handled by call center . Based on the maximum call center capacity no longer being met call processor sends a SIP BYE in step to media streamer . Media streamer responds to the SIP BYE in step with a SIP OK. Call processor sends a SIP INVITE in step to call center . Call center responds to the SIP INVITE with a SIP RINGING message in step . When the call is answered by call center a SIP OK is sent in step .

Call processor also sends a SIP RE INVITE to the new caller s communication device B in step . The new caller s communication device B responds to the SIP RE INVITE with a SIP OK in step . Call processor sends a SIP ACK in step to call center and a SIP ACK to the new caller s communication device B in step . This effectively transfers the new call from call parker to call center . An RTP media stream can now be sent between the new caller s communication device B and call center in step . The information sent in step can be for example the audio of a user interacting with an Interactive Voice Response IVR system or the user talking to an agent in call center .

Herein the phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

Herein the term a an or another entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

Of course various changes and modifications to the illustrative embodiment described above will be apparent to those skilled in the art. These changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and the scope of the system and method and without diminishing its attendant advantages. The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

