---

title: System and method for automatic semantic labeling of natural language texts
abstract: Systems and methods for automatic semantic labeling of natural language documents provided in electronic or digital form include a semantic processor that performs a basic linguistic analysis of text, including recognizing in the text semantic relationships of the type objects and/or classes of objects, facts and cause-effect relationships; matching linguistically analyzed text against target semantic relationship patterns, created by generalization of particular cases of target semantic relationships; and generating semantic relationship labels based on linguistically analyzed text and a result of the matching.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583422&OS=08583422&RS=08583422
owner: Invention Machine Corporation
number: 08583422
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100312
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 159 972 filed Mar. 13 2009 entitled System and method for automatic semantic labeling of natural language texts and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 159 959 filed Mar. 13 2009 entitled Question Answering System And Method Based On Semantic Labeling Of Text Documents And User Questions each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present application is related to U.S. Pat. No. 6 167 370 entitled Document semantic analysis selection with knowledge creativity capability utilizing subject action object SAO structures issued Dec. 26 2000 to Tsourikov et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 251 781 Computer based summarization of natural language documents issued Jul. 31 2007 to Batchilo et al. each incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application relates to systems and methods for the automatic semantic labeling of natural language texts and to the technology pertaining to the creation of linguistic patterns that provide the basis for performing this labeling.

The following U.S. Patent documents provide descriptions of art related to the present application U.S. Pat. No. 5 418 889 issued May 1995 to Ito hereinafter Ito U.S. Pat. No. 5 696 916 issued December 1997 to Hitachi hereinafter Hitachi U.S. Pat. No. 6 026 388 issued February 2000 to Liddy et al. hereinafter Liddy U.S. Pat. No. 6 185 592 issued February 2001 to Boguraev et al. hereinafter Boguraev 1 U.S. Pat. No. 6 212 494 issued April 2001 to Boguraev hereinafter Boguraev 2 U.S. Pat. No. 6 246 977 issued June 2001 to Messerly et al. hereinafter Messerly U.S. Pat. No. 6 263 335 issued July 2001 to Paik et al. hereinafter Paik and U.S. Pat. No. 7 421 645 issued September 2008 to Reynar hereinafter Reynar .

Automatic text processing which can include the tasks of information retrieval knowledge engineering machine translation summarization etc. requires a certain linguistic analysis to be performed.

This analysis especially as the depth and complexity of the analysis increases from the primary lexical level to the semantic level is based on the traditional knowledge of the language e.g. vocabulary morphology etc. and on the so called recognizing linguistic models or patterns that to a certain extent can model cognitive functions of a person performing text apprehension and that make use of concrete lexical units of the language as well as their part of speech classes and elements of syntactical and semantic relationships. The two abovementioned types of knowledge together with statistical methods provide the basis for the algorithms of automatic recognition of various semantic components relationships and their attributes in text e.g. keywords objects and their parameters agents actions facts cause effect relationships and others. In other words they provide an automatic semantic labeling of natural language text in accordance with a previously specified classifier for example semantically labeling strings of text. The latter in turn is defined based on the final goal of the text processing task.

Some existing methods are aimed at databases having a strict structure and are manually compiled or aimed at text having strictly defined fields. A shallow linguistic analysis of text is usually performed which does not produce high accuracy. In particular the semantic labeling of strings of text boils down to a recognition of only several special types of semantic components or relationships. In this manner Reynar provides application program interfaces for labeling strings of text with a semantic category or list while a user is creating a document and provides user e commerce actions based on the category or list. A list may include for example a type label Person Name or Microsoft Employee. 

Hitachi describes a system that uses a predefined concept dictionary with high low relationships namely is a relations and part whole relations between concepts.

Ito describes the use of a knowledge base including a causal model base and a device model base. The device model base has sets of device knowledge describing the hierarchy of devices of the target machine. The causal model base is formed on the basis of the device model base and has sets of causal relations of fault events in the target machine. Thus the possible cause of failure in each element of a device is guessed on the basis of information about its structural connections with other elements of the device. Usually these are the most connected elements which are determined as the cause.

Boguraev 1 describes the performance of a deep text analysis where for text segments the most significant noun groups are marked on the basis of their usage frequency in weighted semantic roles.

Boguraev 2 describes the use of computer mediated linguistic analysis to create a catalog of key terms in technical fields and also determine doers solvers of technical functions verb object .

Paik describes an information extraction system that is domain independent and automatically builds its own subject knowledge base. The basis of this knowledge base is composed of concept relation concept triples CRCs where the first concept is usually a proper name. This is an example of a quite deep semantic labeling of text that relies on recognition of dyadic relations that link pairs of concepts and monadic relations that are associated with a single concept. The system extracts semantic relationships from the previously part of speech tagged and syntactically parsed text by looking for specialized types of concepts and linguistic clues including some prepositions punctuation or specialized phrases.

Of course the procedure of semantic labeling is restricted in this case by the framework of CRC relations. For example recognition of cause effect relationships can be performed only for objects occurring together with certain types of verbs. Although such recognition often requires a wider context and it turns out that in the general case it should be based on a set of automatically recognized semantic components in texts the so called facts. For example one of the components of such facts is a semantic notion of an action in contrast to merely a verb . Taking into account the restriction inherent in the imposed framework of CRC relations semantic labeling in this case requires the development of a large number of patterns which is very labor consuming. Finally such semantic labeling actually deals only with topical content of the text and does not take into account its logical content.

Messerly performs semantic labeling of text in the logical foam deep subject verb deep object. However the abovementioned logical faun is purely a grammatical notion deep subject and deep object are each only a noun and a verb is only a principle verb .

In accordance with aspects of the present invention provided is a unique semantic processor SP where labor intensiveness is decreased the quality of produced results is increased and the sphere of applications using related semantic processing is extended. Such a semantic processor performs a deeper basic linguistic analysis of text which is oriented on some universal semantic structures and performs its semantic labeling according to a technological approach that utilizes those semantic structures and is responsive to user requirements and or inputs.

Also accordance with aspects of the present invention provided are a system and a method for automatic semantic labeling of natural language texts. The system and method include or use a semantic processor that performs the basic linguistic analysis of text including its preformatting lexical part of speech syntactic and semantic analysis of a certain type. Such analysis itself is a part of semantic labeling of text that recognizes the most important semantic components and relationships. Additionally results of such analysis can also be used for the effective creation of specialized linguistic patterns aimed at additional semantic labeling. These patterns are responsive to an indicated goal of the text processing.

The depth of the linguistic analysis of text performed by the semantic processor is determined by what it should provide in terms of achieving semantic labeling goals. From these goals a set of criteria can be determined which can include 

A semantic processor in accordance with aspects of the present invention as achieves such depth with a level of basic types of knowledge as follows objects classes of objects facts and a set of rules reflecting regularities of external domains for example the outside world and or the knowledge domain in the form of cause effect relationships. This deep level of linguistic analysis satisfies the above mentioned criteria.

Accordingly labeling of input text at the stage of its basic linguistic processing by the semantic processor yields a automatic recognition of objects classes of objects b further recognition of facts over the plurality of objects i.e. S A O subject action object type relationships and attributes of components of these relationships and c further recognition of cause effect relationships over the plurality of facts. Such relationships their components and attributes together with part of speech and syntactical tags can comprise a set of labels that can be assigned by the semantic processor. In the aggregate these labels cover practically all lexical units of the input text processed at the stage of its basic linguistic analysis. These labels can also ensure effective technological development of linguistic patterns aimed at further text semantic labeling that can depend on the requirements of the specific application.

In accordance with some aspects of the present invention once an expert has found in the input text processed at the stage of basic linguistic analysis and processing a specific example of a new semantic relation also referred to as a relationship of interest for example whole part location time etc the expert can instantly see labels of all the constituent components at all the important levels of NL from part of speech and syntactic tags to semantic labels. Therefore an expert can formulate with the maximum possible degree of generalization a prototype of a linguistic pattern that is aimed at automatic recognition of a new semantic relationship found in the form of an example in any text using the same semantic processor.

In some embodiments generalization of linguistic patterns can be performed manually by an expert through interaction with the semantic processor or automatically by the semantic processor. This becomes possible because of the basic linguistic analysis of text that provides an efficient context for those purposes. Those linguistic pattern prototypes that have passed a testing stage can be stored in a pattern database which can be a part of a linguistic knowledge base for use by the semantic processor.

In accordance with one aspect of the inventive concepts provided is a method for automatic labeling of natural language text. The method includes providing at least one computer processor coupled to at least one non transitory storage medium. The at least one computer processor performs the method including receiving text from at least one natural language document in electronic form performing a basic linguistic analysis of the text matching the linguistically analyzed text against stored target semantic relationship patterns producing semantically labeled text by generating semantic relationship labels based on the linguistically analyzed text and a result of the matching of the linguistically analyzed text against the target semantic relationship patterns wherein the semantic relationship labels are associated with words or phrases from sentences within the text and indicate components of predetermined types of semantic relationships and storing the semantically labeled text in a database.

The method can further include applying parts of speech tags to at least portions of the text to generate tagged portions of the text parsing the tagged portions of the text to generate parsed and tagged portions of the text and semantically analyzing the parsed and tagged portions of the text to generate semantically analyzed parsed and tagged portions of the text.

Applying the parts of speech tags can be performed on preformatted portions of the text whereby the preformatted portions of the text comprise the text with non natural language symbols removed.

Semantically analyzing the parsed and tagged portions of the text can include recognizing one or more facts in the form of at least one expanded Subject Action Object eSAO set in the text wherein each eSAO set has at least one eSAO component and recognizing in the text a set of rules that reflect regularities of at least one of an external domain and a knowledge domain in the form of cause effect relationships in at least one eSAO set wherein at least one cause effect relationship of the cause effect relationships comprises a cause eSAO and an effect eSAO.

The at least one eSAO component can include text related to one or more elements selected from the group consisting of subjects objects actions adjectives prepositions indirect objects and adverbs.

Recognizing one or more expanded Subject Action Object eSAO sets in the text can include recognizing one or more subjects objects actions adjectives prepositions indirect objects and adverbs in at least one sentence of the text.

Recognizing one or more expanded Subject Action Object eSAO sets and cause effect relationships in the text can include accessing a linguistic knowledge base having a database of patterns defining eSAO and cause effect components.

The cause eSAO can include at least one eSAO component of the at least one eSAO set and the effect eSAO can include at least one other eSAO component of the at least one eSAO set.

The at least one cause effect relationship can include a sequential operator relating the at least one eSAO component of the cause eSAO to the at least one other eSAO component of the effect eSAO with lexical grammatical and or semantic language means.

Matching the linguistically analyzed text against target semantic relationship patterns can further include accessing a pattern database that is a part of a linguistic knowledge database wherein the pattern database is generated by performing a basic linguistic analysis of a corpus of text documents recognizing in the linguistically analyzed corpus particular cases of target semantic relationships generalizing the particular cases of target semantic relationships into linguistic patterns using lexical language units and their semantic classes part of speech and syntactic tags eSAO and cause effect labels from the recognized particular cases of target semantic relationships and storing the linguistic patterns.

Generalizing the particular cases of target semantic relationships into linguistic patterns can use an eSAO format as a context and can include generalizing constituent components of the particular cases of target semantic relationships by searching in the linguistically analyzed corpus of text documents using lexical grammatical syntactic eSAO and cause effect labels obtained for the components from the basic linguistic analysis.

Matching the linguistically analyzed text against the target semantic relationship patterns can include matching words part of speech tags syntactic tags eSAO and cause effect sets wherein generating the semantic relationship labels can include generating eSAO and cause effect labels.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions that perform a method for semantic labeling of natural language texts when executed by at least one processor. The method includes receiving text from at least one natural language document performing a basic linguistic analysis of the text matching the linguistically analyzed text against stored target semantic relationship patterns producing semantically labeled text by generating semantic relationship labels based on the linguistically analyzed text and a result of the matching of the linguistically analyzed text against the target semantic relationship patterns wherein the semantic relationship labels are associated with words or phrases from sentences within the text and indicate components of predetermined types of semantic relationships and storing the semantically labeled text in a database.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a semantic processor for automatically semantic labeling of natural language text in electronic or digital form. The semantic processor includes a preformatter that preformats received electronic text a linguistic analyzer that performs basic linguistic analysis of the preformatted text a labeler that matches the linguistically analyzed text against stored target semantic relationship patterns to produce semantically labeled text wherein the semantically labeled text includes semantic relationship labels associated with words or phrases from sentences within the text that indicate components of predetermined types of semantic relationships.

The linguistic analyzer can comprise a semantic analyzer that produces semantically analyzed text. The semantic analyzer can include an expanded Subject Action Object eSAO recognizer that recognizes eSAOs sets in the text and a cause effect C E recognizer that recognizes a cause effect relationship wherein eSAO and C E recognition is based on linguistic patterns stored in a linguistic knowledge base.

The semantic relationship labels generated by the labeler can include eSAO labels and cause effect labels.

The eSAO cause effect relationship can comprise a cause eSAO an effect eSAO and at least one sequential operator relating the cause eSAO to the effect eSAO.

Each eSAO set can include eSAO components and the cause eSAO can include at least one eSAO component of the eSAO components and the effect eSAO can include at least one eSAO component of the eSAO components that is different from the at least one eSAO component of the cause eSAO.

The eSAO components can include text related to one or more elements selected from the group consisting of subjects objects actions adjectives prepositions indirect objects and adverbs.

The linguistic analyzer can further include a part of speech POS tagger that receives the preformatted text and produces POS tagged text and a parser that receives the POS tagged text produces parsed text and provides the parsed text to the semantic analyzer wherein the parts of speech tagger and the parser operate with data stored in the linguistic knowledge base.

The preformatter can perform at least one of a removal of any symbols in a digital or electronic presentation of the text that do not form part of natural language text a detection and correction of any mismatches or mistakes in the text and partitioning the text into structures of sentences and words.

The target semantic relationship patterns can be created by a pattern generator comprising a corpus linguistic analyzer that performs basic linguistic analysis of a corpus of text documents a labeled text corpus generator that generates a labeled text corpus having part of speech tags syntactic tags eSAO labels and cause effect labels a relation generator that recognizes in the labeled text corpus particular cases of target semantic relationships a pattern generator that generalizes the particular cases of semantic relationships by using their labels to generate more general linguistic patterns wherein the labels include lexical language units their semantic classes part of speech and syntactic tags and eSAO and cause effect labels and a pattern tester for testing the general linguistic patterns by the pattern generator.

When generalizing the particular cases of target semantic relationships into linguistic patterns the pattern generator can use an eSAO format as a context to generalize constituent components as a result of searching in the linguistically analyzed corpus of text documents using of part of speech syntactic and eSAO and cause effect labels obtained for the components at a level of the basic linguistic analysis.

The labeler can match the linguistically analyzed text against target semantic relationship patterns by matching words part of speech tags syntactic tags eSAO and cause effect sets.

Hereinafter aspects of the present invention will be described by explaining illustrative embodiments in accordance therewith with reference to the attached drawings. While describing these embodiments detailed descriptions of well known items functions or configurations are typically omitted for conciseness.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. are be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In accordance with aspects of the present invention provided is a unique semantic processor SP where labor intensiveness is decreased the quality of produced results is increased and the sphere of applications using related semantic processing is extended. Such a semantic processor performs a deeper basic linguistic analysis of text which is oriented on a set of semantic structures and performs its semantic labeling according to a technological approach that utilizes those semantic structures and further on user requirements.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for automatic semantic labeling of natural language text in electronic form. The system includes a semantic processor which performs basic linguistic analysis of the input text recognition of objects object classes recognition of facts from a set of objects and recognition of cause effect relationships from a set of facts. The abovementioned semantic relationships are independent of a subject domain and language and represent three major types of knowledge about external domains such as the outside world and or the subject domain.

These semantic relationships together with their components and attributes determine a set of semantic labels also referred to as semantic relationship labels wherein the semantic processor performs semantic text labeling on the input text during the basic linguistic analysis stage and thereby helps develop linguistic patterns for further target semantic labeling depending on the needs of the specific application.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention the semantic processing for labeling text in electronic or digital form comprises preformatting the text performing linguistic analysis and text labeling.

Semantic Processor is structured adapted or configured to process an Original Text to produce a Labeled Text Database . In this embodiment the Semantic Processor includes a Preformatter that preformats the Original Text a Linguistic Analyzer that performs linguistic analysis of the preformatted text and a Labeler that performs semantic labeling of the linguistically analyzed text and produces the Labeled Text Database . In an embodiment the Labeler also referred to as a semantic labeler matches or compares the semantically analyzed text to target semantic relationship patterns or linguistic patterns stored in or accessible by the Linguistic Knowledge Base and generates semantic relationship labels based on the semantically analyzed text and the matching results. The semantic labels can include labels of words or phrases in the analyzed text that correspond to certain types of semantic relationships e.g. cause effect and or whole part.

The functionality of the modules of the Semantic Processor may be embodied in computer program code that is executable by at least one processor and is maintained in a Linguistic Knowledge Base . The semantic processing functionality could alternatively or additionally be embodied in hardware firmware or a combination of the foregoing which is also true of other functional modules or processors described herein. The Linguistic Knowledge Base can include various databases such as dictionaries classifiers statistical data etc. and databases of recognizing linguistic models or linguistic patterns used for text to words splitting recognition of noun and verb phrases subject object action and their attributes cause effect relationship recognition etc. The Linguistic Analyzer and the Labeler are described in additional detail below. The text preformatting performed by the Preformatter is preferably performed according to the techniques described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 251 781 incorporated by reference above. Preferably in the present embodiment preformatting the text includes removing non natural language symbols e.g. punctuation from the text.

The Linguistic Analyzer processes preformatted text received from a preformatter for example Preformatter described above with regard to to produce semantically analyzed text . The Preformatted Text is received by a Parts of Speech POS Tagger which determines and applies parts of speech tags to the Preformatted Text . A Parser then parses the POS tagged text for processing by a Semantic Analyzer . In this embodiment the functions performed by the POS Tagger and the Parser are preferably performed in accordance with the techniques described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 251 781.

In this embodiment Semantic Analyzer receives Parsed Text from a parser and produces the semantically analyzed text from the Parsed Text . Semantic Analyzer has an extended Subject Action Object eSAO Recognizer that performs eSAO semantic relationship recognition and a C E Recognizer that performs cause effect semantic relationship recognition within and or between eSAOs. In addition to the semantic elements or components of the type Subject S Action A Object O semantic elements or components of the type Preposition Indirect Object Adjective Adverbial are also recognized as eSAOs in the present embodiment. As described above other semantic relationships can be recognized such as cause effect relationships.

In the present embodiment eSAO relationship recognition is preferably performed in accordance with the techniques described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 251 781. And also in the present embodiment the cause effect relationship recognition can be performed in accordance with the techniques described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20060041424 incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In the eSAO components corresponding to Subject Action Object and Adverbial have been determined from the input sentence by eSAO Recognizer .

In the eSAO components Subject Action Preposition Indirect Object and Adjective have been determined for the input sentence by eSAO Recognizer .

In the present embodiment eSAO components Subject Object and Indirect Object have an inner structure i.e. the components proper and their attributes which correspond to a semantic relationship. For example a Subject Object or Indirect Object determined from a sentence can be a parameter of a whole part or mereological relationship i.e. correspond to a whole or a part of such a relationship or can be a parameter in other functional relationships.

Cause effect relationships according to the present embodiment comprise pairing one or more complete and or incomplete eSAOs as causes with one or more complete and or incomplete eSAOs as corresponding effects. Note that a single eSAO can spawn both a cause eSAO and an effect eSAO. Also from the point of view of knowledge engineering and natural language particularities cause effect relationships can be found in separate eSAOs.

The C E Recognizer uses linguistic patterns which can be stored in the Linguistic Knowledge Database for detecting cause effect relationships in text sentences inside a single eSAO and between different eSAOs. For example patterns of the type The cause of construction in Subject arises inside a single eSAO if the Subject has a CAUSE OF sense and the Action links the Subject to the Object with a BE sense. In this pattern CAUSE OF subject sense is a non terminal symbol denoting a noun phrase which preferably conforms to the following pattern a number of words the word cause or causes the preposition of followed by a number of words. The CAUSE OF sense can be represented by the equation CAUSE OF . cause causes of . 

In particular illustrates the eSAO type relationship recognized by eSAO Recognizer for the input sentence The cause of water evaporation is heat. And the cause effect relationship recognized by C E Recognizer in this single eSAO in accordance with the described above linguistic pattern is shown where the Effect water evaporation has the Cause heat. Note that the symbol mentioned in the examples above means that the corresponding component can have any meaning or refer to no symbol or be empty.

Unlike the previous linguistic pattern the pattern of the type Adverbial Modifier of Purpose TO VB DO HV arises between two eSAOs if a first eSAO considered to be a Cause has an Action having the ACTIVE sense and a second eSAO considered to be an Effect has an Action having the TO VB DO HV sense. The ACTIVE Action sense is a non terminal symbol that denotes an Action extracted from an active voice verb group. The TO VB DO HV Action sense is a non terminal symbol that denotes an Action extracted from a verb group including any infinitive verb VB infinitive have HV or infinitive do DO with the article to preceding the verb.

Semantic labels produced by Semantic Processor for the input text during basic semantic analysis together with lexical grammatical and syntactic tags cover practically all lexical units of the input text see . In the present embodiment the Semantic Processor enables efficient development of linguistic patterns useful for further text semantic labeling. For example Semantic Processor gives an expert the ability to wrap any particular example of a new target semantic relationship with labels for different levels of language analysis such as lexical grammatical syntactical and semantic analyses which can be independent of the language and knowledge domain. A user can specify the new target semantic relationship by highlighting corresponding words in a text fragment e.g. on a computer display. Thus the Semantic Processor provides the ability on the one hand to generalize a linguistic pattern for recognizing semantic relationships in text and on the other hand to functionally support the automatic recognition of the semantic relationships in any text on the basis of the generalized linguistic pattern since the Semantic Processor can have access to the level or amount of text analysis needed for processing text using the linguistic pattern. This recognition can be performed in topical content as well as in logical content.

As shown in a sufficiently large corpus of natural language text documents Text Corpus is preferably used to establish and form a Pattern Database comprised of a plurality of linguistic patterns. In other embodiments any amount of text can be used but may yield fewer linguistic patterns than a large corpus of text. A Corpus Linguistic Analyzer performs a basic linguistic analysis on the Text Corpus as described above. To accomplish the foregoing the Semantic Processor of could for example perform these functions as or in conjunction with the Corpus Linguistic Analyzer . A Labeled Text Corpus Generator generates a corpus of sentences containing part of speech tags syntactical tags and semantic labels based on the output of the Corpus Linguistic Analyzer or Semantic Processor during basic linguistic analysis of the Text Corpus .

The Relation Recognizer performs the process of recognition of some particular cases of semantic relationships e.g. C E relationships which may be indicated in a list of labeled sentences containing the particular semantic relationships. For example an expert can indicate specific semantic relationships of interest by indicating e.g. via a computer display labeled sentences output by the Labeled Text Corpus Generator having the semantic relationships of interest. The Pattern Generator generalizes particular cases of semantic relationships by using their labels to generate more general linguistic patterns or target semantic relationship patterns. The Pattern Tester then tests the generated patterns with the use of the Labeled Text Corpus and places approved patterns into the Pattern Database .

The functions of the Relation Recognizer can be performed manually by an expert i.e. he or she can look through the Labeled Text Corpus and find a fragment of text containing target semantic relationships or it can be done automatically by the computer adapted to search of fragments of text containing target semantic relationships or some combination thereof may be used. A user can for example specify a number of concepts that are definitely to be found in the target semantic relationship and Relation Recognizer can automatically search the Labeled Text Corpus for fragments of text containing these concepts. For example if the user is interested in a whole part semantic relationship the Relation Recognizer would find in the Labeled Text Corpus the sentence The engine is located inside the car. which contains the specified whole part i.e. car engine semantic relationship. Upon finding this sentence the Corpus Linguistic Analyzer performs part of speech tagging parsing and semantic analysis for this sentence and sets corresponding semantic labels.

Table 1 illustrates the results of such an analysis for the above sentence where short lexical grammatical and syntactic tags are omitted for clarity 

The Pattern Generator performs analysis and generalization of the whole part relationship to the level of the pattern. The function of the Pattern Generator can be performed manually by one or more experts or automatically by a properly configured computer. In the former case an expert can take into consideration his or her own experience and knowledge as well as the knowledge contained in linguistic knowledge base in making the appropriate analysis and generalizations.

Returning to the previous example an expert should come to a conclusion that whole part roles distribution obtained in this example results from the sense of the preposition inside and the preposition within has a meaning similar to the preposition inside and at least verbs situate contain position dispose fix mount house have a meaning similar to that of the verb locate. Therefore an expert or properly configured computer can register the generic form of the pattern prototype in the way represented in Table 2.

This pattern arises if the Action field has a POSITION sense and is expressed in the original sentence by a verb in passive mode and the Preposition field has an INSIDE sense. Here the POSITION Action sense is a non terminal symbol at least matching words or phrases including locate situate contain position dispose fix install mount house. The INSIDE preposition sense is a non terminal symbol that at least matches words or phrases including inside within. 

Retrieval of values of non terminal symbols which itself represents generalization of linguistic patterns may also be conducted in an automatic mode using a large enough Labeled Text Corpus based on the eSAO format. Such corpus provides an efficient context for those purposes. For example the Pattern Generator will retrieve all the values of the non terminal symbol INSIDE by fixing only the values of Action Object and Indirect Object fields see Table 1 and then performing an automatic search in the Labeled Text Corpus of all the sentences that have eSAOs with same values as the fixed ones in the corresponding fields. Similarly the Pattern Generator will retrieve all the values of the non terminal symbol POSITION by fixing values of Object Preposition and Indirect Object fields.

Below is another example of a sentence containing whole part semantic relationships. This relationship describes a technical process and as a result is extracted from the set of eSAOs determined from the sentence 

Based on this example the Pattern Generator will build the following linguistic pattern according with the above described disclosure 

In this pattern the PERFORM Action sense is a non terminal symbol at least matching words or phrases follow complete do perform take .

Detailed description of the linguistic patterns for automatic recognition of Whole Part semantic relationships in text documents is given in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20070156393 incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Another sentence gives an example of semantic relationship of PREVENTION type namely Aluminum should be isolated in order to prevent corrosion. A linguistic pattern for recognition of that relationship built according with the above described embodiments will have the possibility to operate even with the semantic label of cause effect type. In this case the subject of the pattern of PREVENT semantic relationship in this pattern will be eSAO Cause isolate aluminum and object of this relationship object including attributes if any of eSAO Effect corrosion provided that action of eSAO Effect has PREVENT sense i.e. at least match words prevent avoid hamper preclude eliminate inhibit. 

The Pattern Tester using prototypical linguistic patterns built by the Pattern Generator looks for the examples of the described semantic relationship in the Labeled Text Corpus . An expert can analyze the retrieved examples and approve the pattern possibly with some corrections. The computer could also be programmed or configured to perform this task. Either way the Pattern Tester then puts the approved pattern into the Pattern Database which is a part of the Linguistic Knowledge Base in the present embodiment.

The Labeler shown in in addition to the labels set in the input text by the Linguistic Analyzer provides further semantic text labeling and or target semantic labeling according to linguistic patterns generated by the Pattern Generator approved by the Pattern Tester and included in the Linguistic Knowledge Base .

For example the labels provided Labeler of are determined by applying patterns from the Pattern Database which can be included in the Linguistic Knowledge base to semantically analyzed text . The labels provided by Labeler can include labels indicating the types of semantic relationships discussed herein or other types of semantic relationships e.g. cause effect and or whole part semantic relationships.

System functionality and databases may actually be co located or distributed across many systems subsystems processors and storage devices which may collocated or remote to each other including user devices and data sources. When remote to each other communications between various systems subsystems processors and storage devices can be accomplished using wired or wireless communications over one or more of a variety of types of networks including the Internet World Wide Web local area network wide area network virtual private network and the like. Such networks can include a variety of computer systems servers and data storage devices satellites cellular networks cable networks telephone networks and the like. Similarly functionality and data of other relevant entities may be embodied in program code resident in any of a variety of storage devices or systems and executed or accessed by any of a variety of processors.

For example embodiments in accordance with aspects of the present invention may be implemented in specially configured computer systems such as the computer system shown in . The computer system may include at least one processing element a display an input device and a link to databases or other computer readable storage media that provide the necessary information to accomplish the described semantic labeling.

In various embodiments applications functional modules and or processors described herein can include hardware software firmware or some combination thereof. To the extent that functions are wholly or partly embodied in program code those functions are executed by one or more processors that taken together are adapted to perform the particular functions of the inventive concepts as one or more particular machines. And to the extent software or computer program code or instructions sometimes referred to as an application are used in various embodiments it may be stored on or in any of a variety of non transitory storage devices or media and executed by one or more processors microprocessors microcontrollers or other processing devices to achieve explicit implicit and or inherent functions of the systems and methods described herein. For example the computer program code may be resident in memory in the processing devices or may be provided to the processing devices by floppy disks hard disks compact disk CDs digital versatile disks DVDs read only memory ROM or any other non transitory storage medium. Such storage devices or media and such processors can be collocated or remote to each other whether logically or physically. For instance a system in accordance with the inventive concepts may access one or more other computers database systems etc. over a network such as one or more of the Internet and World Wide Web intranets extranets virtual private networks or other networks.

As used herein unless otherwise indicated a computer can take the form of any known or hereafter developed device that includes at least one processor and storage media. For example referring to a computer or computer system can include a server personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer portable music device personal computer cell phone workstation not shown mainframe not shown or the like or some combination thereof. Such devices may include one or more input devices which may include a keypad or keyboard microphone video camera touch screen and the like as examples. Such devices may also include one or more output devices which may include a video screen e.g. computer cell phone or PDA screen touch screen image projection system speaker printer and the like as examples. In some embodiments a data port may also be considered an input device output device or both. In some embodiments a variety of user devices may interact with a knowledge search and mapping system hosted on computer which can be accessible via the Internet as an example.

To the extent any elements described herein are remote to each other they may communicate and or exchange information over any of a variety of known or hereafter developed networks e.g. local area networks wide area networks virtual private networks intranets computer based social networks cable networks cellular networks the Internet the World Wide Web or some combination thereof.

The foregoing Detailed Description of exemplary and preferred embodiments is presented for purposes of illustration. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form s described but only to enable others skilled in the art to understand how the invention may be suited for a particular use or implementation. The possibility of modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art having understood the disclosure herein. No limitation is intended by the description of exemplary embodiments which may have included tolerances feature dimensions specific operating conditions engineering specifications or the like and which may vary between implementations or with changes to the state of the art and no limitation should be implied therefrom.

This disclosure has been made with respect to the current state of the art but also contemplates advancements and that adaptations in the future may take into consideration those advancements namely in accordance with the then current state of the art. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the Claims as written and equivalents as applicable. Moreover no element component nor method or process step in this disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or step is explicitly recited in the Claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. Sec. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for . . . and no method or process step herein is to be construed under those provisions unless the step or steps are expressly recited using the phrase step s for . . . 

It is therefore understood that various modifications may be made and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

