---

title: Method and system for providing a fixed rate annuity with a lock-in interest rate feature
abstract: A data processing method and system administers a deferred annuity product during the accumulation phase of a contract term. The annuity product permits the client to select both an interest rate which is reset periodically (reset rate) and an interest rate which is guaranteed for multiple years (MYG rate), during the same contract term. The client may elect to automatically switch from the reset rate to the MYG rate, for the remainder of the contract term, when the reset rate falls below the MYG rate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07873554&OS=07873554&RS=07873554
owner: Hartford Fire Insurance Company
number: 07873554
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100208
---
This application is a continuation application of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 787 493 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A FIXED RATE ANNUITY WITH A LOCK IN INTEREST RATE FEATURE filed Apr. 16 2007 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The present invention relates to a method and system for providing a client with the benefit of a fixed rate annuity offering both a static guaranteed rate for a multi year period as well as a rate which fluctuates periodically reset rate more particularly to a method and system wherein a client initially selects the reset rate while retaining a one time option exercised manually or automatically to switch to or lock in the guaranteed interest rate for the remainder of the contract term when the reset rate falls below the guaranteed rate.

A deferred annuity is typically used to provide accumulation and potentially a future stream of annuity income. The deferred annuity comprises an accumulation period during which the account value will vary with the underlying investments. Deferred annuities typically provide guaranteed income for life which transfers some portion or all of the risk of outliving ones accumulated assets to the insurer.

One basis for distinguishing commonly available deferred annuities is whether the annuity is classified as a fixed annuity or a variable annuity. In a fixed annuity the insurer guarantees a fixed rate of interest applicable to each annuity deposit. Therefore a fixed annuity is desirable for those seeking a safe investment. The guaranteed interest may apply for a specified period of time often one year or more. Often a rate guaranteed for more than one year is called a multi year guarantee MYG rate . The rate credited on a fixed annuity is reset periodically moving in an amount and a direction that correlates with the yields available on fixed income investments available to the insurer. The rate may also be adjusted based upon an external index. For a given term fixed annuities typically only offer clients the fore mentioned guaranteed rate of interest for multi years MYG rate or alternatively an initial rate that can be reset periodically typically annually . The MYG rate is often lower than the reset rate because the insurer has less flexibility. A client must select only one of these options during a contract term.

Thus typically a client seeking a high rate of return who selects a fixed annuity elects to receive rates that can be reset periodically and faces the risk that the issuing company may significantly lower rates at the end of each period within the life of the contract. This exposure to risk reduces the attractiveness of the annuity as an investment. Potential clients who require a certain level of income in retirement and will be depending upon the annuity to supply that income may seek other investments outside of the annuity market without that potential exposure.

Thus there remains a need in the art for a data processing method for administering an annuity product for a contract term wherein the annuity product has a lock in feature that provides a guarantee that the interest payable will not fall below a guaranteed interest rate should adjustable rates be significantly reset downwards. In addition there is needed an annuity product wherein a guaranteed interest rate is automatically applied to the account balance of the annuity when an adjustable interest rate payable falls below the guaranteed interest rate so that the client need not concern himself or herself with the fluctuations in the adjustable rate.

The present invention provides a data processing method and system for administering a deferred annuity product during the accumulation phase of a contract term wherein the annuity product permits the client to select both an interest rate which is reset periodically reset rate and an interest rate guaranteed for multiple years MYG rate during the same contract term. If the consumer selects the reset rate initially typically the consumer is earning a higher rate of interest on the consumers premiums than that which is provided by the MYG rate but is also assuming a risk that the reset rate will decrease.

The insurer adjusts the reset rate at its discretion or based upon an external index. The insurer declares the reset rate in advance of its effective date and at any point in time it may be lower than the MYG rate which is applied on the day the annuity contract is issued. In the event the reset rate is lower than the MYG rate the client has the option of electing that the MYG rate be applied from that point forward to the clients account balance. In another embodiment of the invention the election may be made automatic such that once the reset rate falls below the MYG rate no action on the clients part is required to change the interest rate to the guaranteed MYG rate. The election of the MYG rate subsequent to the election of the reset rate is a one time option and applies until the end of the contract term regardless of whether the election is automatic or initiated by the client.

The present invention solves several of the problems associated with conventional administration of annuity products. It provides an annuity product system and method which will reduce the risk of annuitants who elect to receive adjustable rates that can be reset periodically. Specifically it provides an annuity product system and method containing a lock in feature providing a guarantee that the adjustable interest rate payable to the client will not fall below a declared guaranteed interest rate should the adjustable interest rate be significantly reset downwards. It also provides an annuity product system and method including this lock in feature as an option for the annuitant to exercise at will or as an automatic feature elected upon issue of the annuity.

The present invention comprises a data processing system and method for administering an annuity product containing a lock in interest rate feature. The system method and product provide the client with both the benefit of an adjustable interest rate which reflects the movement of an external measure or insurer discretion as well as a guaranteed interest rate. According to the invention the lock in feature insures that the interest rate payable to the client will not fall below a declared guaranteed interest rate should the adjustable rate be significantly reset downwards. The client may select the lock in as an automatic feature elected upon issue of the annuity or return the right to pick and choose if and when the guaranteed interest rate feature will be applied. The unique combination of these two capabilities makes the present invention a superior investment choice for clients who wish to insure that their annuity accumulates enough to provide an adequate payout stream but at the same time do not wish to absorb the significant risk that the interest rate they receive falls below a declared minimum level.

In step the client may also select to have an adjustable rate reset rate applied to the clients premiums during the accumulation phase. The insurer declares this rate periodically typically annually. The rate declared may be higher lower or equal to the MYG rate and is typically based upon an external index however the insurer may use its own discretion in selecting the rate percent. The client may also select a third choice unique to this product to have the insurer automatically apply the reset rate to the clients premium until such time as the reset rate falls below the MYG rate. Should this event occur the clients accumulated account balance earns interest at the MYG rate until the end of the contract term. This automatic transfer is a one time event. In accordance with this third option the reset rate is no longer available as an option for the client once the client has transferred to the MYG rate. In an alternate embodiment this automatic option is not available to the client and the client must manually request the transfer of funds and the application of the MYG rate for the remainder of the contract term.

In step the insurer calculates the interest credits the client has accumulated at the end of each period by multiplying the account value by the selected rate. The insurer adds the interest credits to the existing account value to generate a new accumulated account value. In step periodically the insurer checks to see whether the reset rate has been selected if it has the insurer proceeds with step . In step the insurer compares the reset rate with the MYG rate to see if the reset rate is the lower of the two rates. If not the insurer applies the rate selected i.e. the reset rate. If the reset rate is now lower than the MYG rate the insurer proceeds to step .

In step the insurer checks to see whether the client has selected the automatic option. If yes the insurer applies the MYG rate to the clients premium and the account balance is earmarked for application of the MYG rate for the remainder of the contract term. If the client has not selected the automatic option the insurer proceeds to step . In step the client has the option of continuing to have the reset rate applied to the clients premiurrand account balance or changing to the MYG rate. If the client decides to select the MYG rate this is a one time only change which will be applied to the clients account balance for the remainder of the contract term.

Table 1 set forth below further illustrates how the lock in feature would work in accordance with the present invention when applied to a 7 year fixed annuity issued in this instance on Dec. 31 2006.

The system deposits client funds in the annual reset bucket to earn the initial rate reset rate of 4.2 as of Dec. 31 2006. At this point in time the reset rate of 4.2 exceeds the MYG rate. On the first anniversary Dec. 31 2007 the reset rate rises to 4.4 while the MYG rate remains static at 4.0 . The client at this point has earned 4 200 interest credits generated by multiplying the reset rate of 4.2 by the account value of 100 000. The interest credits or 4 200 are added to the amount in the annual reset bucket 100 000 yielding 104 200 the account value as of Dec. 31 2007.

On the second anniversary Dec. 31 2008 the reset rate is raised once again to 4.6 . By this time 4 585 interest credits have been earned by multiplying 4.4 the year 2007 interest rate by the year 2007 account balance of 104 200. The interest credits are added to the account value yielding an account value of 108 785 as of Dec. 31 2008. This process is repeated in years 2008 2009 and 2010.

In year 2011 the lock in feature of the present invention takes effect. As of Dec. 31 2011 the reset rate falls to 3.0 which is lower than the MYG rate of 4.0 . At this point if the automatic option has been selected by the client or if the client manually elects the lock in option the clients interest rate switches to the MYG rate. Accordingly for the following year year 2012 the interest applied is not the reset rate of 3.0 but rather the MYG rate of 4.0 . Instead of earning 3 739 which would correspond to an interest rate of 3.0 the account value earns 5 366 which corresponds to an interest rate of 4.0 . Furthermore the account value from this date forward until the end of the contract in this case year 7 earns interest credits corresponding to the credits earned using the MYG rate as a multiplier.

A data processing method for administering a deferred annuity product for an annuitant during the accumulation phase of a contract term the annuity product having a contract value a guaranteed interest rate and a reset interest rate includes the steps of a. during the accumulation phase i. declaring a guaranteed interest rate for a guaranteed period ii. at predetermined intervals determining a reset interest rate wherein the reset interest rate may be equal to the guaranteed interest rate higher than the guaranteed interest rate or lower than the guaranteed interest rate iii. applying the guaranteed interest rate to premiums deposited into a guaranteed account for accumulating an account value iv. applying the reset interest rate to premiums deposited into a reset account for accumulating an account value b. in the event that the reset interest rate falls below the guaranteed interest rate i. providing the annuitant with an option to request a transfer of the account value from the guaranteed account to the reset account whereby the account value is calculated according to the guaranteed interest rate for the remainder of the contract term.

In an embodiment of the method the annuitant exercises the option to request a transfer of the account balance at the start of the contract term and the transfer takes place automatically when the reset interest rate falls below the guaranteed interest rate.

A data processing method for administering a deferred annuity account with a declared contract period has an interest rate earned by premiums deposited by an annuitant set to a guaranteed interest rate declared at the time the annuity is issued and the annuitant has the option of selecting the guaranteed rate or a reset interest rate which is declared annually and the annuitant has the further option of selecting the reset interest rate initially and transferring the annuitant s account balance to an account earning the guaranteed interest rate when the guaranteed rate is higher than the reset interest rate such transfer being a one time irrevocable transfer lasting until expiration of the contract period.

A deferred annuity product includes a. means for calculating and paying a guaranteed interest rate on deposited premiums to generate an account value in a first account b. means for calculating a reset interest rate on an annual basis and paying the reset interest rate on deposited premiums to generate an account value in a second account c. means for identifying when the guaranteed interest rate has a value lower than the reset interest rate and d. means for transferring the account value from the first account to the second account for the duration of a contract term whereby the account value earns interest at the guaranteed interest rate.

A system for administering a deferred annuity product having a predefined term and an account value during the accumulation phase includes a. first interest rate means for establishing a guaranteed interest rate b. second interest rate means for establishing a reset interest rate which is updated at predefined periods c. first selection means for selecting the guaranteed interest rate or the reset interest rate d. calculation means for calculating interest credits and incrementing the account value with interest credits based upon the selected interest rate e. second selection means for providing the annuitant with an option to request a transfer from the reset interest rate to the guaranteed interest rate in the event that the reset interest rate is the selected interest rate and the reset interest rate falls below the guaranteed interest rate.

In an embodiment of the system the second selection means operates automatically and the request to transfer the reset interest rate to the guaranteed interest rate in the event that the reset interest rate falls below the guaranteed interest rate is selected upon issuance of the annuity.

In an embodiment of the system as claimed in claim wherein the reset interest rate is updated annually.

A data processing method is for administering a deferred annuity product during the accumulation phase for a contract term wherein the annuity product permits the consumer to select successively a first interest rate which is reset periodically and a second interest rate guaranteed for multiple years during the same contract term.

The detailed illustrative embodiment here presented is directed at providing a more complete understanding of the invention. The specific techniques systems and operating structures set forth to illustrate the principles and practice of the invention may be embodied in a wide variety of sizes shapes forms and modes some of which may be quite different from those in the disclosed embodiment. Consequently the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are exemplary. They are deemed to afford the best embodiment for purposes of disclosure but should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention.

