---

title: Course content and assignment distribution
abstract: An electronic content distribution system may include functionality for defining and tracking instructional classes. Assignments may be created for an instructional class, defining electronic content that is to be consumed as part of the assignment. Assignments may be presented to students on devices that the students use for consuming electronic content, such as handheld eBook readers. In addition, the listed assignments may allow the students to easily open the electronic content specified by the assignments, for consumption and study using the same device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09269274&OS=09269274&RS=09269274
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09269274
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100922
---
A large and growing population of users is consuming increasing amounts of digital content such as music movies audio books electronic books executables and so on. This is particularly true in academic environments which are often dominated by younger people who are very comfortable with electronic media.

The widespread adoption of handheld computing devices such as smartphones notebook computers tablet slate computers and dedicated electronic book reading devices has further encouraged the electronic distribution and consumption of media. Increasingly academic textbooks are available electronically for viewing on handheld readers or other devices.

This disclosure describes systems devices and techniques in which an instructor can define a class by identifying students electronic content and assignments regarding the electronic content. Students having electronic readers such as electronic book reader devices can receive the assignments and any electronic content specified by the assignments. The assignments can be presented on the students electronic readers in a calendar format that lists assignments and associated electronic content. Students can refer to the calendar to determine which electronic content they should be reading or studying at any particular time and can interact with the calendar to open any desired electronic content.

Students may be asked for permission to monitor their progress through assigned content. Assuming such permission is granted the electronic readers may monitor and report activities of the students with regard to the assigned electronic content. For example an electronic reader may log navigation by the student such as opening content turning pages and so forth. This information may be reported and used to determine assignment status for individual students. Assignment status may indicate whether students have started and or finished assignments. Assignment status may also indicate various other metrics about a student s engagement with assigned content such as reading speed reading thoroughness annotations highlighting comprehension and so forth. Information from multiple students can be compiled and reported to the class instructor. Selected information may also be shared among students in some implementations.

The instructor has access to a computer or other computer like device such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer terminal etc. In the embodiment shown the computer has network capabilities and a network browser for accessing a data communications network such as the Internet illustrated in by a cloud . Note that the network may be any type of communication network including a local area network a wide area network a wireless wide area network WWAN a cable television network a wireless network a telephone network combinations of the foregoing etc.

The students each have an electronic reader having a display upon which electronic content such as electronic books eBooks may be rendered. The term eBooks may include any sort of textual materials such as books periodicals documents papers instructional materials and the like. Other content may also be consumed on electronic readers such as movies audio and audio books.

The electronic readers may be handheld devices such as dedicated eBook reader devices or other small light weight portable devices upon which eBooks and other content can be rendered and conveniently viewed in a manner similar to viewing a paper book. Examples of other handheld electronic readers include flat form factor devices such as tablets smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs etc.

In the example of the electronic readers have networking capabilities. For example the electronic readers may have wireless communication interfaces that allow communication though the network . The wireless communications interfaces may utilize WiFi cellular or other wireless data technologies.

Note that in some embodiments the electronic readers may comprise dedicated purpose eBook reader devices having flat panel displays and other characteristics that mimic the look feel and experience offered by paper based books. For example such eBook reader devices may have high contrast black and white flat panel displays that appear similar to a printed page and that persist without frequent refreshing. Such displays may consume very negligible amounts of power so that the eBook reader devices may be used for long periods without recharging or replacing batteries. In some instances these readers employ electrophoretic displays.

Each electronic reader may be configured with account information corresponding to a particular student . Each student may have multiple electronic readers which may synchronize with each other so that a student may stop reading on a first device and continue reading on a second device at the same location that the student left off in the first device.

Electronic readers may be configured to allow students to conveniently browse for content and content items and to purchase and download selected content items. A content item may be essentially any form of electronic data that may be consumed on a device such as digital books electronic magazines journals periodicals documents instructional materials course content music movies and so on. A content item may also be composed of multiple portions such as units chapters sections pages tracks episodes parts subdivisions scenes intervals periods modules and so forth.

In the configuration illustrated by content items may be obtained from an online content service . The content service may be accessed using the networking capabilities of the electronic readers . The content service may be accessible through other means as well such as by connection to intermediary devices like personal computers different types of mobile devices and so forth.

Various applications and user interfaces may be used in conjunction with the electronic readers to interact with the content service such as various Internet browser programs that allow a user to interactively engage various online services. In addition the content service may expose various lower level interfaces or APIs application programming interfaces through the network through which devices and programs can access the underlying functionality of the content service without direct user interaction. For example a student may interactively purchase an eBook or other content item using a personal computer or some device other than the electronic reader device . Electronic reader may periodically communicate with the content service to perform background synchronization or other housekeeping and may automatically without specific user intervention download any content that has been purchased.

The online environment may also include a class schedule and assignment service CSAS . The CSAS may be associated with the content service or may be independent. In the illustrated embodiment the CSAS is an online or cloud based service that is accessible to both instructors and students through the network . Appropriate security techniques may be utilized to authenticate users and to protect against unauthorized access.

The CSAS may be accessible to both instructors and students by way of conventional web browsing technologies including various types of Internet browsers. In addition the CSAS may expose programmatic interfaces or APIs intended for use by remote devices independently of specific user navigation. For example as will be described below the electronic readers may be configured to connect autonomously to the CSAS to obtain class assignments and to report assignment status.

Note that both the content service and the CSAS may be configured to use cloud based online storage services for both content items and assignments. The cloud based storage services may be hosted apart from the content service and the CSAS .

The CSAS interacts with the instructor to define classes in terms of students content or content items and assignments relating to the content items. More specifically the instructor may use a web browser to access the CSAS and to define an instructional class or study course. The instructor may utilize the computer for this purpose or may utilize an electronic reader of his or her own. Furthermore in some situations the instructor may use an electronic reader belonging to or being used by one of the students .

The instructor may define a class by specifying or identifying a list of students who are members of the class. The students may be identified by a unique identifier such as a user ID. In some cases the students may be identified by selecting them from a list of students who are known to be attending a specific institution. In other cases the instructor may specify email addresses or other online identifiers associated with the students or may specify addresses or identifiers associated with the electronic readers of the students.

A class may also be defined by one or more assignments that are to be completed by the class students . The assignments may relate to various tasks but in particular may specify reading assignments in terms of textual or other electronic content that the class students are to read and or study. The assignments may also have associated dates such as start dates target dates and or due dates. In some embodiments the assignments may comprise a schedule of assignments in which each assignment is associated with a due date or other date. Furthermore estimated activity times may be associated with each assignment indicating the estimated time it will take a student to complete the assignment.

The schedule of assignments may be defined by the instructor at the beginning of a class and may thus include multiple future assignments. Additional assignments may also be added later as the class progresses.

Each of the assignments potentially identifies electronic content that is the subject of the assignment. In the illustrated assignment identifies or references content which may be a content item a plurality of content items a portion of a content item or multiple portions of one or more content items. In this example it is assumed that the content comprises electronic content that is available from the content service . However specified content might be available from many sources including various Internet sources. The content may be specified in terms of an Internet URL uniform resource locator or by some other identifier such as a product ID.

The electronic readers are configured to interact with the CSAS to receive assignments for the students . In the described embodiment each student within a particular class receives the same schedule of assignments . The electronic readers can be configured to present the assignments in one of various calendar formats according to the dates associated with the assignments . For example some electronic readers might maintain internal calendar or appointment applications. In these cases assignments can be integrated with the internal calendar or appointment applications and shown along with other tasks events and appointments. In other cases a special purpose calendar or scheduling application might be configured to be loaded onto the electronic readers and executed by the readers to show assignments .

The electronic readers may be configured to give alerts in conjunction with assignments . Alerts may be given upon approaching due dates or deadlines or when assignments become current. Alerts may comprise visual or audible notifications or may be implemented using some type of messaging technique such as email.

Assignments when displayed by electronic readers may be associated with links or pointers to the content associated with the assignments so that selecting a graphical representation of an assignment directs the user to the linked content . In certain implementations the assignment may be selected by moving a cursor to it and activating a selection input such as a mouse button or input key. In touch screen implementations an assignment may be selected by simply touching its graphical representation. Upon selecting an assignment its associated content can be automatically opened and displayed by electronic reader .

In a simplified example of an assignment calendar is shown as being displayed on the flat panel display . In this example the assignment calendar is formatted linearly from top to bottom showing a schedule of assignments for several upcoming days. On February 8 for example the assignment calendar shows an assignment Guide to Writing chapter 5 indicating that the student is to read chapter 5 of the content item entitled Guide to Writing . The assignment also indicates an estimated reading time Estimated Time 50 minutes . Similarly formatted assignments for later days follow the assignment .

Assignments can be identified within the assignment calendar in various ways. Content items can be identified by title author and or other descriptive terms. Portions of content items that the students are to read can be indicated by chapters sections pages columns lines etc.

Depending on the specific embodiment the CSAS or the assignment calendar may generate alerts and or notifications upon receiving new assignments or assigning new assignments to users. Alerts or notifications may include sounds visual displays vibrations or other types of alerts that are implemented on the eBook reader device itself Alternatively alerts or notifications might be through some other means such as by text messages or email.

Within each assignment the assigned content is underlined or annotated in some other way to indicate that it can be selected by the user. Selecting an assignment opens the assigned content item to the indicated portion. Selecting the assignment for February 8 for example opens the content item Guide to Writing and moves to the beginning of chapter 5 within that content item. This is indicated by in which the content is indicated by reference numeral . Thus in the embodiment illustrated by content is rendered in response to interaction by the student with the assignment calendar .

The assigned content can be downloaded or streamed to electronic readers . In some implementations the assigned content is identified downloaded and cached by electronic readers automatically upon receiving the assignments . In other implementations downloading and caching may be deferred until the user selects an assignment or content may be streamed or downloaded on demand upon selection of an assignment or upon navigation through a content item. In some cases assignments may refer to online resources such as web pages. In these cases selecting an assignment may open a browser that is directed to the web page or other online resource.

Referring again to the CSAS may be configured to monitor interaction of individual students with assigned content . Assuming the students have given permission the CSAS may receive device usage notifications or reports from individual electronic readers that indicate various different types of actions and interactions by the students with respect to the assigned content . For example device usage notifications might indicate which content item a user views time periods when a user views a particular content item navigation from one page to another page turns particular portions of a content item that are viewed length of time viewing individual pages and so forth. The CSAS may monitor this information to determine activities of the students with respect to the assignments . For example the CSAS may determine based on the received usage reports that a student has started reading the content associated with the assignment or that the student has completed the content . Assignment status corresponding to different students and assignments be summarized and reported to the instructor .

At the instructor sets up a class by identifying the class students the class assignments and any content associated with the assignments. This action may be performed once at the beginning of a class or iteratively over time as a class progresses and the instructor identifies more assignments and content.

Assignments may be specified by class instructors in terms of content items and portions of those content items. Content items may comprise published content items such as eBooks that are available from online merchants and other sources. Content items may also comprise materials generated or provided by the instructor that are not necessarily publicly available. Instructor provided materials may include textual materials such as notes comments outlines etc. as well as illustrations figures graphics and other materials.

Furthermore content may comprise surveys or questions that accompany assigned reading materials such as comprehension questions designed to be answered by students after completing the assigned reading materials.

At activities times are estimated for each assignment indicating the estimated time to perform or complete each assignment. Estimated times may be provided by the instructor during setup or may be estimated by the CSAS based on length and other characteristics of the content items associated with the assignments. In some embodiments the usage notifications and reports may allow the CSAS to estimate reading speeds of individual users so that individual activity time estimates for each student may be provided based on the actual monitored or observed reading speeds of those students.

At the assignments are delivered to the students via their electronic readers . At the assignments are received by the respective electronic readers . In some embodiments the assignments may form a schedule of assignments being associated respectively with start dates activity time estimates and or due dates.

In the embodiments described herein the assignments are transferred over the network to the electronic readers which are equipped for wireless reception of various data and communications. In other embodiments the transfer of assignments may involve an intermediary device such as a personal computer or removable storage card from which the assignments are transferred to respective electronic readers during updating or synchronization procedures.

At in response to the receiving the electronic readers retrieve or receive any content referenced or identified by the received assignments . Correspondingly a server component such as the content service delivers the content at . Content may be also be retrieved from other sources. In some cases retrieving the content may involve a purchase transaction by the student . In other cases the content may have already been paid for or it might be available without charge from the instructor or from the institution sponsoring the class.

Retrieving the content may be performed immediately or soon after receiving the assignments . Alternatively the retrieval may be deferred and performed on demand when the student attempts to read or view the content. Content may be cached in its entirety on the electronic reader or indicated portions of content may be retrieved and cached. In some cases content may be viewed as web pages and retrieved page by page as the user navigates. Content may also be streamed.

At the electronic reader responds to navigation from the student . More specifically at the electronic reader displays or otherwise renders assignments and content in response to user navigation. Assignments and content may be displayed as described with reference to or using various different layouts and navigational schemes. Assignments may be displayed in a calendar or schedule format in accordance with start dates and or due dates. Estimates of activity times may be indicated as well as actual progress information.

In addition at some embodiments may monitor student interaction with the electronic content. More specifically the electronic reader and the CSAS may with permission of the students monitor user navigation and consumption activities by keeping a log of user consumption activities. For example the electronic reader may log the rendering or viewing of each page of any assigned content . In some embodiments logging may be more detailed or granular and may include the time each page is viewed or the rate of content consumption reading speed .

Also at the electronic reader may prompt a student to indicate whether an assignment has been completed and may audit student provided completion information by asking the student to obtain an input from a parent or other person verifying that the student has consumed and actively engaged with the assigned content. For example the parent may be requested to enter a pre specified secret code indicating that the student has completed the assigned content. The electronic reader may also solicit answers to any comprehension questions that have been supplied by the class instructor.

At user navigation and or assignment activities are reported to the CSAS . These activities may include the results of the monitoring such as usage notifications logs of viewing activities with respect to assigned content completion or progress information provided by the student and or audit information such as confirmation by a parent. The assignment activities may alternatively indicate higher level information such as assignment status. Assignment status may simply indicate whether the student has started or completed an assignment or may indicate the percentage of the assignment that has been completed.

Assignment activity information may also include highlighting and underlining made by the student with respect to assigned content and or notes or annotations made by the student. Assignment activity information may also include answers to comprehension questions supplied by the class instructor.

The CSAS receives the assignment activity information at and at determines assignment progress. Assignment progress may be indicated specifically in the assignment activity information received from the electronic reader or it may be inferred from more granular assignment activity information. For example the electronic reader may report which pages of specified content have been viewed and the CSAS may compare that information with the assignment information to determine whether the assignment has been completed. An assignment may be deemed to have been completed if all pages of the assigned content have been viewed.

More sophisticated monitoring may be employed to thwart cheating and to provide more information to instructors such as verifying that a minimum amount of time was spent viewing each page.

At certain assignment activities may be shared with the instructor or with other students . As a specific example the activities reported by the electronic reader at may include annotation and highlighting information such as specific portions of the assigned content that were highlighted or underlined by each student and annotations or notes made by each student. This type of information may be shared among students for comparison and learning and may also be shared with the instructor.

At user navigation and or assignment status information is reported to the instructor . As noted above the assignment information may include whether assignments have been started or completed based on the monitoring . The assignment activity information may indicate the percentage of completion for partially completed assignments. In addition assignment activity may be summarized for a plurality of the students and may include statistics such as average completion rate or average scores.

Although a relatively simple mechanism for monitoring student assignment progress is described above other embodiments may employ more sophisticated mechanisms and may utilize additional reader functionality and cloud based services. Monitoring techniques that may be used in conjunction with the techniques described herein are described in the following co pending United States Patent Application which is hereby incorporated by reference Content Usage Analysis and Recommendations filed Jun. 30 2009 having Ser. No. 12 495 061.

In a very basic configuration the electronic reader includes a processing unit composed of one or more processors and memory . Depending on the configuration of the electronic reader the memory is an example of computer storage media and may include volatile and nonvolatile memory. Thus the memory may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology or any other medium which can be used to store media items or applications and data which can be accessed by the eBook reader device .

The memory may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable on the processing unit as well as data and media items that are rendered by the electronic reader . Together these elements can form operational logic for implementing the functionality described above.

The memory may store an operating system and an eBook storage database to store one or more media items such as eBooks and audio books. A user interface module may also be provided in the memory and executed on the processing unit to provide for user operation of the electronic reader . The UI module may provide menus and other navigational tools to facilitate selection and rendering of content items such as the eBooks . The UI module may further include a browser or other application that facilitates access to sites over a network such as websites or online merchants or other sources of electronic content items or other products.

The UI module may include a content presentation application that renders the content items. The content presentation application may be implemented as various applications depending upon the content items. For instance the application may be an electronic book reader application for rendering electronic books or an audio player for playing audio books or a video player for playing video and so forth.

A communication and synchronization module is stored in memory and executed on the processing unit to perform management functions in conjunction with the content service and the CSAS . The communication and synchronization module communicates with the content service to receive the eBooks and with the CSAS to obtain assignments and to provide user activity information such as assignment status.

As discussed above the electronic reader may also have a calendar or appointment application that can be utilized to display the schedule of assignments. The calendar application may be configured to generate alerts and or notification as assignment due dates approach.

The electronic reader may further include a display upon which electronic books are rendered. In one implementation the display uses electronic paper display technology. In general an electronic paper display is one that has a high resolution 150 dpi or better and is bi stable meaning that it is capable of holding text or other rendered images even when very little or no power is supplied to the display. The electronic paper display technology may also exhibit high contrast substantially equal to that of print on paper. Some exemplary electronic paper displays that may be used with the implementations described herein include bi stable LCDs MEMS cholesteric pigmented electrophoretic and others. One exemplary electronic paper display that may be used is an E Ink brand display. Touch sensitive technology may be overlaid or integrated with the electronic paper display technology to enable user input via contact or proximity to the screen.

The electronic reader may further be equipped with various input output I O components . Such components may include various user interface controls e.g. buttons joystick keyboard etc. audio speaker connection ports and so forth.

A network interface supports wired and or wireless connection to various networks such as cellular networks radio WiFi networks short range networks e.g. Bluetooth IR and so forth. The network interface facilitates receiving electronic books and other content as discussed herein. Of particular note the network interface enables wireless delivery of the eBooks over a wireless network.

The electronic reader may also include a battery and power control unit . The power control unit operatively controls an amount of power or electrical energy consumed by the eBook reader device. Actively controlling the amount of power consumed by the electronic reader may achieve more efficient use of electrical energy stored by the battery.

The electronic reader may have additional features or functionality. For example the electronic reader may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. The additional data storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

In a very basic configuration an example server may comprise a processing unit composed of one or more processors and memory . The memory is an example of computer storage media and may include volatile and nonvolatile memory. Thus the memory may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology or any other medium which can be used to store media items or applications and data which can be accessed by the server . The memory may also include cloud based storage services.

The memory may be used to store any number of functional components forming operational logic that is executable on the processing unit as well as data assignments and content items that are supplied to consuming devices such as the electronic reader . Thus the memory may store an operating system and a database to store one or more assignments such as assignments .

Functional components of the server may also comprise a web service component that interacts with remote devices such as computers and media consumption devices. The server may also include a communication and synchronization module to communicate with remote devices and to communicate assignments and assignment status with those devices.

The server in some embodiments may include a class management module that works in conjunction with various database or management components for keeping track of users classes assignments etc.

The server may of course include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those shown in are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

Note that the various techniques described above are assumed in the given examples to be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions or software such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Other architectures may be used to implement the described functionality and are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. Furthermore although specific distributions of responsibilities are defined above for purposes of discussion the various functions and responsibilities might be distributed and divided in different ways depending on particular circumstances.

Similarly software may be stored and distributed in various ways and using different means and the particular software storage and execution configurations described above may be varied in many different ways. Thus software implementing the techniques described above may be distributed on various types of computer readable media not limited to the forms of memory that are specifically described.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the claims For example the methodological acts need not be performed in the order or combinations described herein and may be performed in any combination of one or more acts.

