---

title: Method, apparatus, and article of manufacture for providing in situ, customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness
abstract: Disclosed are a method, system, and computer program product for providing customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness. The method or the system displays a portion of a physical design of an electronic circuit in a first display area. The method or the system receives or identifies a user's or a system's manipulation of the portion of the physical design of the electronic circuit. The method or the system then determines and displays an in situ response to the manipulation in the first display area. The method or the system may further display, in the first display area or in another display area, result(s) relating to the physical data of a component, electrical parasitic(s) associated with the physical data, electrical characteristic(s) associated with the physical data or the electrical characteristic(s), or other element(s) of the physical design that is impacted by the manipulation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08782577&OS=08782577&RS=08782577
owner: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
number: 08782577
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
The instant Application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 628 entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS and concurrently filed on Dec. 30 2010. The contents of the aforementioned Application are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties. The U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 628 claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 398 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 412 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 404 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 406 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH IR DROP AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 407 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS and U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 410 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS .

This Application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 721 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 790 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 628 entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 732 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS . The entire disclosures of the above applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties in the instant Application.

Conventional electronic circuit design tool set generally comprises some schematic level tools such as the schematic editor one or more simulators etc. and some physical level tools such as the layout editor the physical verification tool s one or more physical level simulators etc. These tools may have their own user interfaces such as graphical user interfaces GUI . A designer often needs to go back and forth among a few user interfaces to obtain the desired or necessary information or data while implementing an electronic circuit design. For example a designer may need to use a physical verification tool to perform some verifications of an electronic circuit layout and then return to a layout tool to observe or manipulate the layout in order to see if the layout passes the verification.

Thus there exists a need for providing in situ customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness.

Disclosed comprises a method a system and a computer program product for providing customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness. In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the method or the system for providing customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness comprises the process or module for displaying a portion of a physical design in a first display portion of a user interface. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module for receiving a manipulation of the portion of the physical design wherein the manipulation may be effected by a user designer or from any tools in the electronic circuit design tool set.

In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or module for displaying a response generated by a tool in the electronic circuit design tool set in response to the manipulation in the first display portion of the user interface. The method or the system may also comprise the process or module for displaying in either the first display portion of the user interface or another portion of the user interface one or more results relating to parasitic s electrical characteristic s or physical data of the portion of the electronic circuit design or any other elements of the electronic circuit design that are affected by the manipulation in a single embodiment or in some embodiments. In some embodiments the user interface comprises a graphical user interface of a physical domain electronic circuit design tool.

Various embodiments of the invention are directed to a methods systems and articles of manufacture for providing in situ customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness in a single embodiment or in some embodiments. Other objects features and advantages of the invention are described in the detailed description figures and claims.

Various embodiments will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings which are provided as illustrative examples of the invention so as to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Notably the figures and the examples below are not meant to limit the scope of various embodiments of the invention. Where certain elements of some embodiments of the invention may be partially or fully implemented using known components or methods or processes only those portions of such known components or methods or processes that are necessary or desired for an understanding of the present invention will be described and the detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components or methods or processes will be omitted so as not to obscure the invention. Further various embodiments of the invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the components referred to herein by way of illustration.

Referring to which illustrates a top level system diagram for implementing various embodiments of the methods or systems for providing customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness the system comprises one or more user terminals or computing nodes which interfaces with one or more physical domain electronic circuit design tools via at least one user interface . The one or more physical domain electronic circuit design tools further interact with a storage system device or medium that stores various information or data such as flat or hierarchical electronic circuit designs at various abstraction levels libraries various analysis results or data etc.

In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the one or more physical domain tools comprises a module for displaying a portion of a physical design in a first display portion . The one or more physical domain tools may further comprise a module for receiving a manipulation on the portion of the electronic circuit design in some embodiments and a module for displaying a response of at least one of the tools in an electronic circuit design tool set which comprises the one or more physical domain tools in response to the manipulation. In some embodiments the manipulation comprises a manipulation from a user designer or from one or more tools in the electronic circuit design tool set on the portion of the electronic circuit. In some embodiments the electronic circuit design tool set comprises one or more schematic level tools such as a schematic editor or one or more schematic level simulators.

It shall be noted that the modules any of the modules and may be implemented in hardware circuitry software or a combination thereof. In some embodiments where one of the modules is implemented as software the software is to interact with some or all of the components in a computing system as illustrated in to perform its intended functions.

Referring to which illustrate a top level system diagram for implementing various embodiments of the methods or systems for providing customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness the system comprises one or more user terminals or computing nodes which interfaces with one or more schematic processing module in the schematic domain and one or more physical domain electronic circuit design tools in the physical domain via at least one user interface . In some embodiments the schematic processing module may comprise for example a schematic editor or a schematic simulator. In one or more embodiments The one or more physical domain electronic circuit design tools further interact with a storage system device or medium that stores various information or data such as flat or hierarchical electronic circuit designs at various abstraction levels libraries various analysis results or data etc.

In some embodiments the one or more physical domain electronic circuit design tools may further interact with a post layout verification modules which comprises for example a design rule checking DRC tool a physical verification tool etc. in a post layout domain in which these post layout domain tools perform their intended functions with a complete layout of an electronic circuit.

In some embodiments shown in the functions provided by the post layout verification modules are built directly into the interactive infrastructure. In this mode the binder that synchronizes the schematic and layout in as each physical design object is added is incrementally performing LVS Layout Versus Schematic such that the post verification LVS is not required. Similarly in this mode design rule checking DRC can be done incrementally IDRC as physical design objects are created. In this embodiment the completed layout meets design and manufacturability rules required for verification.

The one or more physical domain electronic circuit design tools may comprise for example a physical data processing module that is configured with hardware circuitry software or a combination thereof or is programmed for performing identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component of a complete or incomplete physical design of the electronic circuit.

The one or more physical domain electronic circuit design tools may also comprise an electrical parasitics characterization module that is configured with hardware circuitry software or a combination thereof or is programmed for performing characterizing one or more electrical parasitics or one or more device parameters that are associated with the physical data.

In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics associated with physical data may be done with a two stage approach. This process begins with the selection of a particular net or a partial net. In the first stage the process identifies where along that net that a geometric description should be created. The geometric descriptions may include wire widths and spacings conductor and ILD inter layer dielectrics thicknesses or thickness of barrier materials. A common description may be created and provided via an API application programming interface. 

The second stage may include one or more components that may translate transform convert or map hereinafter map the geometric description to an equivalent parasitic value such as a resistance capacitance or inductance. This translation transformation conversion or mapping hereinafter mapping may be done with mathematical algorithms or models that are often referred to as parasitic extraction. The models may be created through the use of semi empirical methods that combine models or knowledge of the underlying physics with data provided by various solver s simulator s or a combination thereof. In some cases the mapping for capacitance may also be done with a solver.

In some embodiments the second stage may use parasitic extraction for some nets and a field solver for other nets. In some embodiments the second stage may use a combination of parasitic extraction for for example resistance s and a field solver for for example capacitance s on the same net. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics may be performed with extraction tools that map geometric dimensions and patterns to corresponding parasitics such as R L and C. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics includes the use of field solvers such as but not limited to one or more EM or electro migration field solvers that map geometric dimensions and patterns to capacitance s .

The one or more physical domain electronic circuit design tools may also comprise an electrical characteristics characterization module that is configured with hardware circuitry software or a combination thereof or is programmed for performing characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with the one or more electrical parasitics and the physical data.

The one or more physical domain electronic circuit design tools may also comprise a physical data or related data verification module that is configured with hardware circuitry software or a combination thereof or is programmed for performing various verification on the one or more parasitics the one or more electrical characteristics or the physical data. More details about the module and are described in related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 721 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 790 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 732 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS the contents of all the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

It shall be noted that the modules any of the modules and may be implemented in hardware circuitry software or a combination thereof. In some embodiments where one of the modules is implemented as software the software is to interact with some or all of the components in a computing system as illustrated in to perform its intended functions.

Referring to which illustrates a top level diagram for the method or system for providing customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness in one or more embodiments the method or the system may comprise a process or a module for displaying a portion of a physical design in a first display portion of a user interface in a single embodiment or in some embodiments. In some embodiments the user interface comprises a graphical user interface of a physical domain electronic circuit design tool. An example of a physical domain electronic circuit design tool comprises an electronic layout editor in some embodiments.

The method or the system may further comprise a process or module for identifying or receiving a manipulation of the portion of the physical design in a single embodiment or in some embodiments. In some embodiments the manipulation may be effected by a user designer or by any tool in the electronic circuit design tool set which may comprise for example some schematic domain tools some physical domain tools such as a router or some post layout tools that require a complete layout instead of a partial layout of an electronic circuit design. Some examples of the post layout tools comprise for example but not limited to an LVS tool a physical formal verification tool a post layout optimization tool or a sign off tool in some embodiments.

The manipulation may comprise for example a user s identification of an area of interest in the physical design by using the user interface or a pointing device a change in the physical data electrical characteristic s or other related items in the electronic circuit design a click on or moving a cursor over an entity a menu item a net a device or a component hereinafter component or any other items in the entire display area or any commands or instructions associated with the physical design. It shall be noted that a manipulation may also refers to any operations performed or to be performed either automatically by the system or assisted by a user in one or more electronic circuit design tools.

In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the method or system may further comprise a process or module for displaying a response to the manipulation of the portion of the electronic circuit design in the first display portion in which the portion of the physical design is also displayed. In some embodiments the response may be overlaid on top of the portion of the physical design in the first display portion. In some embodiments the response may be implemented as a pop up window in the first display portion or other portions of the user interface. In some embodiments the display of the response to the manipulation comprises an in situ response to the manipulation. In these embodiments the display of the response to the manipulation occurs without generally interrupting the state of various electronic circuit design tools by for example leaving one tool for another tool in order to generate or cause to generate the response. In some embodiments the display of the response to the manipulation occurs substantially in real time. Nonetheless it shall be noted that the manipulation may trigger one or more processes or may invoke one or more modules to perform various functions in order to generate the response to the manipulation and that the triggering of the one or more processes or the invocation of various modules may take certain time to complete. As a result the display of the response occurs substantially in real time.

In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the method or system may further comprise a process or module for displaying one or more result s relating to the physical data of a net a device or a component of the portion of the physical design electrical parasitic s associated with the physical data electrical characteristic s electrical characteristic s associated with the physical data or the electrical parasitic s or other elements of the physical design that are impacted by the manipulation.

In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics associated with physical data may be done with a two stage approach. This process begins with the selection a particular net or partial net. In the first stage the process identifies where along that net that a geometric description should be created. The geometric descriptions may include wire widths and spacings conductor and ILD inter layer dielectrics thicknesses or thickness of barrier materials. A common description may be created and provided via an API application programming interface. 

The second stage may include one or more components that may translate transform convert or map hereinafter map the geometric description to an equivalent parasitic value such as a resistance capacitance or inductance. This translation transformation conversion or mapping hereinafter mapping may be done with mathematical algorithms or models that are often referred to as parasitic extraction. The models may be created through the use of semi empirical methods that combine models or knowledge of the underlying physics with data provided by various solver s simulator s or a combination thereof. In some cases the mapping for capacitance may also be done with a solver.

In some embodiments the second stage may use parasitic extraction for some nets and a field solver for other nets. In some embodiments the second stage may use a combination of parasitic extraction for for example resistance s and a field solver for for example capacitance s on the same net. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics may be performed with extraction tools that map geometric dimensions and patterns to corresponding parasitics such as R L and C. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics includes the use of field solvers such as but not limited to one or more EM field solvers that map geometric dimensions and patterns to capacitance s .

The method or the system may then provide the electrical parasitic to one or more simulator modules or simulation processes at B in some embodiments. The method or the system may perform the one or more simulation processes or invoke the one or more simulator modules using the electrical parasitic at B in some embodiments. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module of displaying the simulation result s in a user interface UI at B in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the processes or modules of B B B B and B may be performed at the time when the component is being created modified or updated. In some other embodiments the processes or modules of B B B B and B may be performed after the completion of the creation modification or updating of the component but before the creation modification or updating of the next component. In other words the processes or modules of B B B B and B may be performed incrementally on a component by component basis in the latter embodiments.

The method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining modifying or updating the physical data of a component in a physical design in the electronic circuit design at A in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the physical design comprises a partial physical design of an electronic circuit design wherein the partial physical design does not and will not pass a layout versus schematic LVS check or verification without further editing updating or modification. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module for identifying determining or characterizing an electrical parasitic that is associated with the component in the physical design at A as well as the process or module for providing or forwarding the electrical parasitic to a simulator or a simulation process at A in some embodiments.

The method or the system may then perform the simulation process or invoke the simulator module using the electrical parasitic at A in some embodiments. At A the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module for graphically or textually displaying the simulation result s in a user interface in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or module A is performed or invoked substantially in real time to provide in situ display of the simulation result s when the component or the physical data thereof is being edited modified or updated such that a user who is creating editing updating or modifying the component knows how his or her creating editing updating or modification of the component impacts at least a part of the electronic circuit design or whether his or her creating editing updating or modification of the component complies with the intended behavior or characteristic of the component. At A the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module for reviewing or evaluating the simulation result s of A and the simulation result s of A in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the process or module for reviewing or evaluating the simulation result s at A may comprise comparing the simulation result s of A with the simulation result s of A.

The method or the system may further comprise the process or module for determining whether some design corners or the specification of the electronic circuit design is satisfied at B based on the simulation results generated at B. The method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module for graphically or textually displaying or updating a result of the process for determining whether the design corner s or the specification is satisfied at B in some embodiments. In some embodiments the schematic simulation results may be identified from a computer readable storage medium without performing the schematic simulation. For example in some cases where the schematic simulation has been performed and the simulation results have been stored such simulation results may be directly retrieved from storage without having to performing the schematic simulation again.

In some embodiments the method or the system may comprise the process or module for creating editing updating or modifying the physical data of a component in a layout at B. In some embodiments the physical design comprises a partial physical design of an electronic circuit design wherein the partial physical design does not and will not pass a layout versus schematic LVS check or verification without further editing updating or modification. The method or the system may comprise the process or module for performing a simulation of the created edited updated or modified layout at B in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the method or the system as illustrated in performs various processes or invokes various modules without having to or requiring the performance of the LVS check or verification. In these embodiments the partial layout or even the complete layout remains LVS correct without having to pass the LVS check or verification.

At B the method or the system may also comprise the process or module for determining whether some design corner s or the specification is satisfied for the created edited updated or modified layout based at least in part upon the result of B in some embodiments. The method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module of graphically or textually displaying or updating the results of the determination whether the design corner s or the specification is satisfied at B in some embodiments. At B the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module for reviewing or evaluating the simulation result s of B and the simulation result s of B in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the process or module for reviewing or evaluating the simulation result s at B may comprise comparing the simulation result s of B with the simulation result s of B.

The method or the system may further comprise the process or module for identifying a first point for the measurement or the measurement probe at C hereinafter measurement in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the first point may be identified according to a user s input. For example a user may identify the first point by clicking at a point in for example the physical design. In some embodiments the first point may be identified based on the identification of the component. For example if a net or a segment thereof is identified at C the method or the system may automatically identifies the appropriate terminal s or connection s for the component as the first point in some embodiments.

The method or the system may further comprise the process or module C for determining whether there exists a node for the first point of a measurement in some embodiments. At C the method or the system may comprise the process or module for fracturing the net which constitutes the component in some embodiments or to which the component belongs in some other embodiments. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module C for inserting a node at the location of the first point if it is determined that there does not exist a node at the location in some embodiments. In some embodiments where it is determined that there exists an existing node at the first point the method or the system may identify the existing node as the first point for the measurement at C.

At C the method or the system further comprises the process or module for identifying a second point for the measurement at C in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the method or the system identifies the second point in a manner that is substantially similar to that in C. illustrates a top level diagram for the method or system for providing customizable information in designing electronic circuits with electrical awareness in some embodiments. The processes or actions of D D D D D and D are substantially similar to those of C C C C C and C of respectively.

In some embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or module of identifying a second point for the measurement or the measurement probe and then determining whether there already exists a node for the second point at D. At D the method or the system may further comprise the process or module for fracturing the net which constitutes the component in some embodiments or to which the component belongs in some other embodiments where the method or the system determines that no there does not exist a pre existing node for the second point. In these embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or module for inserting a node at the location of the second point. In some other embodiments where the method or the system determines that there already exists a pre existing node for the second point the method or the system may comprise the process or module for identifying the pre existing node as the second point for the measurement or measurement probe.

The method or the system may then proceeds to perform the measurement using the first point and the second point to determine the desired electrical parasitic or characteristics at D in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the method or the system may further perform additional or associated calculations at D to determine the desired electrical parasitic or characteristic. At D the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module for displaying the measurement result s or other related electrical result s in some embodiments. One or more illustrative examples of the processes illustrated in and will be provided in subsequent paragraphs with reference to one or more figures.

The user interface may also comprise one or more pop up window A to communicate or display various information data options settings or messages to a user in some embodiments. The user interface may also comprise an interactive browser A or an interactive navigator A in some embodiments. The user interface may also comprise a status or feedback display area A to display information about the status or to communicate certain feedback. More details about various items illustrated in will be described in subsequent paragraphs with reference to various figures.

In these embodiments or in some other embodiments the interactive browser B may also be interactively and operatively coupled with or linked to the interactive GUI B one or more pop up windows B or the interactive navigator such that an operation or manipulation performed in the interactive GUI B one or more pop up windows B or the interactive navigator B causes or triggers corresponding action s operation s or manipulation s in the interactive browser B. In some embodiments the options menu B or the status or feedback display area may also be interactively and operatively coupled with or linked to any one of the interactive browser B the interactive GUI B one or more pop up windows and the interactive navigator B such that an action operation or manipulation in one of the above user interface items triggers causes or invokes a corresponding action operation response manipulation or display of information in one or more of these user interface items in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the list of components may be presented in a form of a pull down menu. In some embodiments the list of components may be presented in a form of hierarchical structure. In some embodiments the list of components is presented in an expandable and collapsible structure with one or more hierarchies such that a user may identify a particular component and display the identified component at a desired level of granularity. In some embodiments at least some of the list of components may be user selectable.

For example a user may click on a particular net or some of the associated or included devices in this particular net to identify and select this particular net as the net of interest in some embodiments. In addition or in the alternative once a component has been identified or selected in the interactive browser B the interactive GUI may automatically adjust the graphical display to provide a proper view with proper level of granularity in response to the identified or selected component. In some embodiments a user may also select or identify a component in the interactive GUI by for example clicking on the component in the interactive GUI. In these embodiments the interactive browser B may automatically adjust the display of its contents or may further expand or collapse certain levels in C to properly display the component identified or selected from the interactive GUI. In some embodiments the interactive browser may further emphasize the selected or identified component by for example but not limited to highlighting color coding or other visual aides to help the user to identify the component in C.

The interactive browser B may further comprise one or more selectable corners C or one or more selectable characteristics or attributes C in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the selectable characteristics or attributes comprise for example but not limited to identification of a component e.g. the name of a net C or various types of parasitics C such as total capacitance s coupled capacitance s or grounded capacitance s etc. In some embodiments where the component comprises a net the selectable characteristics or attributes C may comprise the total number of terminals C or the total number of violations of certain constraints for each component at each of a plurality of levels.

In some embodiments the interactive browser B may further include provisions for activating one or more sorting functions or one or more selectable sorting criteria C which may be used to sort the displayed information or data. In some embodiments the interactive browser B may further comprise one or more provisions for interacting with user input and manipulation s C such as but not limited to various editing undo redo or delete functions display mode for the interactive browser e.g. a list view or a tabulated view of the components etc.

In some embodiments the interactive browser B may further comprise user definable display characteristics C. For example the user may choose to use red to show all components with current densities that are 20 higher than the specification or a design corner to use yellow to show all components with current densities that are between 0 to 20 higher than the specification or a design corner and green for to show all components with current densities that are equal to or less than the specification or a design corner in one embodiments. In some embodiments the user may define different display characteristics for the interactive browser B and the interactive GUI. In some embodiments the user may synchronize C the display characteristics for both the interactive browser B and the interactive GUI.

In some embodiments the interactive browser B may further comprise one or more provisions for interacting with the interactive navigator the interactive GUI the options menu or the status or feedback display area C . For example the interactive browser may provide the provision for the user to select whether or how to display for example capacitance s e.g. display capacitance s by layer or display capacitance by the component in some embodiments. In some embodiments the interactive browser may further provide the provision for a user to select which dataset is to be used to determine whether a particular component satisfies the specification or a design corner. For example the interactive browser may provide the user with a list of datasets such as a worst case dataset for the user to select.

The plurality of provisions may further comprise the first provision for electro migration EM D or the second provision D. The first provision D or the second provision for electro migration D provides a user with various customizable settings options or functions and displays various customizable types of information or data to the user. In some embodiments the interactive navigator may also provide a provision for a user to determine how various customizable data will be updated. For example the provision may provide the user with the capability to determine whether or not the customizable data will be automatically or manually updated in response to the creation editing updating or modification made to the schematic or physical electronic circuit design. In some of the examples illustrated in some of the subsequent paragraphs with reference to various figures the first provision D is denoted as EM and the second provision for electro migration is denoted as New EM .

In some embodiments the first provision of EM D presents the EM related information or data such as but not limited to various EM related electrical parasitics or electrical characteristics geometric data or information of one or more components or other characteristics or attributes of at least a portion of a physical electronic circuit design in a list data structure on a for example property by property basis e.g. resistances or capacitances component by component e.g. net by net or path by path basis or a layer by layer basis e.g. metal 1 metal 2 dielectric 1 etc. in some embodiments. The list data structure may comprise a hierarchical structure that comprises one or more hierarchies that may be expanded or collapsed.

In some embodiments the second provision of EM D presents the EM related information or data such as but not limited to various EM related electrical parasitics or electrical characteristics geometric data or information of one or more components or other characteristics or attributes of at least a portion of a physical electronic circuit design in a tabulated form. In some embodiments the tabulated form comprises a spread sheet or a database representation of various the EM related information or data in a row based or column based format. In some embodiments the interactive navigator further provides the functions for perform various arithmetic mathematical or statistical operations or analyses of the EM related information or data. In some embodiments the EM related information or data comprise for example the physical attributes of one or more components such as the length s width s or cross sectional area s of an interconnect or a segment thereof. In some embodiments the various EM related information or data comprise for example resistance s various types of currents or current densities the number of cuts or the cut area for a component or the layer that a component belongs to.

In one or more embodiments the interactive navigator displays or presents one or more characteristics or attributes that are definable or customizable by a user D . The one or more characteristics comprise for example but not limited to resistance s D average AC alternating current current s D average DC direct current current s D layer information such as the name s of corresponding layer s D geometric characteristic s D the number of cuts for a component D the cut area for a component D various types of capacitances that are arranged on a for example but not limited to component by component e.g. net by net or layer by layer basis in some embodiments. The interactive navigator may provide a user with the options to determine what data or information to display.

The interactive navigator may further provide a sorting function such that a user may sort the displayed data or information based on one or more user definable sorting criteria D in some embodiments. The interactive navigator may further interact with user s input or manipulation within the interactive navigator or in other part s of the user interface D in some embodiments. For example the interactive navigator may interactively presents in situ customizable information data or message s provides option s selection s choice s decision s or function s or invokes one or more sub module s or process es in response to user s input or manipulation s within the interactive navigator or in other part s of the user interface. For example the interactive navigator may interact with the interactive browser D the interactive user interface the options menu or the status or feedback display area.

The interactive navigator may further provide the functions or capability for a user to define the user s preferences for the displayed data or information in the user interface D in some embodiments. For example the user may determine which color or highlight scheme is to be used to display what type of information or data to emphasize certain types of displayed information or data. The interactive navigator may further provide the functions or capability for a user to determine whether or not the displayed information data or design in various parts of the user interface are to be synchronized D in some embodiments. For example the user may determine whether or not the interactive browser the interactive navigator and the interactive graphical display area are to be synchronized with the same color coding or highlight scheme.

A pop up window may further provide the functions or capability for a user to set up the respective environment of various simulators such as but not limited to a schematic simulator or a layout simulator E in some embodiments. A pop up window may further provide the functions or capability for a user to identify or select one or more techfiles each of which is associated with a specific foundry E . A pop up window may further provide the functions or capability for a user to select or determine display preferences such as the color coding or highlighting schemes for various textual or graphical display or representation of information or data E in some embodiments. A pop up window may further provide the functions or capability for a user to set up the extractor E in some embodiments. For example a user may determine whether the extractor is to extract resistances only capacitances only or both resistances and capacitances. The user may determine what the extractor will extract from the physical electronic circuit design based at least in part upon for example a balance between the computation resources and time constraints.

In some embodiments the user interface comprises a physical design display portion content control which may be used to control or customize how various information or data may be displayed in the physical design display portion F. For example the physical design display portion content control may be used to select whether certain layers nets components hierarchical levels physical data electrical characteristics electrical parasitics other data associated with the physical design etc. of the physical design are to be displayed the appearance of the display for various entities such as what colors are to be used to display various information or data in the physical design display portion etc. in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the user interface provides one of more interactive design editing functions to a user. In some embodiments the user interface comprises a navigator for a user to navigate through one or more trees of elements associated with various nets devices or components hereinafter component of the physical design or a portion thereof. For example the navigator may provide individual component information or data for a given portion of the physical design in a collapsible tree with multiple branches each of which may comprise one or more collapsible levels of data or information to be displayed. In some embodiments the user interface comprises a display of physical data electrical parasitics associated with the physical data electrical characteristics associated with the physical data or the electrical parasitics or other related data of the physical design or a portion thereof.

In some embodiments the user interface comprises a display of one or more results of physical parasitic or electrical constraint verification or compliance check. In some embodiments such a display of one or more results may also comprise using a customizable thermal map for various results. For example any violation of a constraint or design rule may be shown in a first color a first line type or a first shape texture any components whose parasitics physical data electrical characteristics or other data are at a level that does not rise to the level of violation but may cause concerns or other issues may be displayed in a second color a second line type or a second shape texture any components that meet various constraints design rules or requirements may be displayed in a third color a third line type or a third shape texture.

In some embodiments the user interface further displays legends for the display so a user may understand what information the thermal display conveys. In some embodiments the thermal maps may be customized in a way such that a user may easily spot areas of concerns in the physical display portion. For example a user may customize the thermal map display to use the color red for any violations of constraints or hard design rules that have to be fulfilled and to use white for the remaining physical design. In this example a user may easily spot the violations in red in the physical design display portion.

In some embodiments the physical design display portion may be configured to provide in situ and or real time responses to manipulations that are effected from a user one or more electronic circuit design tools or a combination thereof. The physical design display portion may also be configured to display one or more results relating to the characterizations of electrical parasitic s or electrical characteristic s of a particular component of interest in response to the manipulations of this particular component of interest in some embodiments. The physical design display portion may further be configured to display one or more results relating to the characterizations of electrical parasitic s or electrical characteristic s of other elements of the physical design that are impacted by the manipulations of the particular component. In some embodiments the process for displaying the simulation

According to one embodiment computer system G performs specific operations by one or more processor or processor cores G executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory G. Such instructions may be read into system memory G from another computer readable usable storage medium such as static storage device G or disk drive G. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software. In one embodiment the term logic shall mean any combination of software or hardware that is used to implement all or part of the invention.

Various actions or processes as described in the preceding paragraphs may be performed by using one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof herein processor G where the one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof executes one or more threads. For example the act of specifying various net or terminal sets or the act or module of performing verification or simulation etc. may be performed by one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof.

The term computer readable storage medium or computer usable storage medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor G for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive G. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory G.

Common forms of computer readable storage media includes for example electromechanical disk drives such as a floppy disk a flexible disk or a hard disk a flash based RAM based such as SRAM DRAM SDRAM DDR MRAM etc. or any other solid state drives SSD magnetic tape any other magnetic or magneto optical medium CD ROM any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In an embodiment of the invention execution of the sequences of instructions to practice the invention is performed by a single computer system G. According to other embodiments of the invention two or more computer systems G coupled by communication link G e.g. LAN PTSN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions required to practice the invention in coordination with one another.

Computer system G may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program e.g. application code through communication link G and communication interface G. Received program code may be executed by processor G as it is received and or stored in disk drive G or other non volatile storage for later execution. In an embodiment the computer system G operates in conjunction with a data storage system G e.g. a data storage system G that contains a database G that is readily accessible by the computer system G. The computer system G communicates with the data storage system G through a data interface G. A data interface G which is coupled to the bus G transmits and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that include data streams representing various types of signal information e.g. instructions messages and data. In embodiments of the invention the functions of the data interface G may be performed by the communication interface G.

In addition the collapsible parasitics tree is associated with a summary of the tree which may comprise for example but not limited to the total number of resistors in the portion of the physical design. Furthermore each resistor listed in the collapsible parasitics tree is also associated with a summary which comprises for example but not limited to the resistance value of the particular resistor. Moreover each resistor may be associated with other information. For example a particular resistor may be associated with the physical data such as material length width temperature locations etc. such that the user or the system may manipulate the resistor by changing the physical data. For example in some embodiments where an electro migration analysis is performed and found that the maximum current through a particular wire segment exceeds the maximum allowable limit the system or the user may alter a width of the wire segment to meet the maximum allowable current limit by for example dragging the wire to increase its width or changing the value of the width to perform automatic or assisted fix of the electro migration violation based on a hint or recommendation provided by the system.

In some embodiments when a user clicks on or moves a user interface cursor e.g. a mouse cursor over a particular resistor this particular resistor becomes highlighted for example in red and the corresponding component or a portion thereof is also highlighted for example in white as show in the physical design display portion . Moreover a resistor symbol may be shown while providing connectivity information for this particular resistor. In some embodiments a user may click on or move the user interface cursor over a particular component or a portion thereof in the physical design display portion and the corresponding resistor in the collapsible parasitics tree may be shown as highlighted for example in red . In this manner a user may easily identify or manipulate the layout even down to the individual component level.

In this example the EAD browser window further shows various data or information that comprises for example but not limited to the total capacitance the coupled capacitance by net the coupled capacitances the capacitance by layer the ground capacitance the nodes the resistance paths the number of resistors the number of terminals etc. Moreover each of the above items of information or data is associated with a description or descriptive value and some of the above items of information or data may be further expanded to display additional information or data.

In addition when a particular coupling capacitance is identified in the EAD browser window the corresponding component that causes the coupling capacitance is highlighted and is represented by a capacitance symbol in the physical design display portion of the user interface as shown in .

In this example the system automatically highlights the component s corresponding to the identified path and represents the path with a plurality of resistor symbols located in the vicinity of the locations where these resistors are captured or extracted in response to the identification of the particular path.

Once the nets are identified the EAD browser displays the parasitics of each net and the comparison results of the corresponding parasitics of the nets. In this example as illustrated in two nets are identified and the EAD browser shows the total capacitances of the net outm and outp and the difference therebetween the coupled capacitances and the differences the grounded capacitances and the differences and the total resistances and the difference. The EAD browser further shows the total capacitance by layer the coupled capacitance by net and the respective differences.

Furthermore in response to the user s manipulation of the component in the physical design the system anticipates the end point of the user s modification to the component and determines and displays a flight line which starts from the node and ends at a anticipated end point . In some embodiments the flight line varies in response to the user s manipulation of the component . That is the end point of the flight line varies based on how the user modifies the component by for example dragging the component. In addition as the user is modifying the component the system automatically characterizes the changing physical data the associated electrical parasitics and the associated electrical characteristics performs various constraint or physical data verification and displays various information or data in response to the settings of the user interface.

Some embodiments related to the interactive routing example shown in may also use the linear solver component described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS to compute electrical characteristics voltage s current s max current capacity etc. assuming the net terminates where the physical object is currently defined for example the end of the wire in .

Some embodiments related to the interactive routing example shown in may also use the linear solver component described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS to compute electrical characteristics voltage s current s max current capacity etc. assuming the net terminates with the object that intersects the flight line for example in .

Some embodiments related to the interactive routing example shown in may also use the linear solver component described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS to compute electrical characteristics voltage s current s max current capacity etc. compare that characteristic with a limit or constraint and compute display the percentage consumed toward the limit or constraint assuming the net terminates where the physical object is currently defined for example the end of the wire in .

Some embodiments related to the interactive routing example shown in may also use the linear solver component described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS to compute electrical characteristics voltage s current s max current capacity etc. compare that characteristic with a limit or constraint and compute display the budget or surplus relative to the limit or constraint assuming the net terminates where the physical object is currently defined for example the end of the wire in .

Some embodiments related to the interactive routing example shown in may also use the linear solver component described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS to compute electrical characteristics voltage s current s max current capacity etc. compare that characteristic with a limit or constraint and compute display the percentage consumed toward the limit or constraint assuming the net terminates with the object that intersects the flight line for example in .

Some embodiments related to the interactive routing example shown in may also use the linear solver component described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS to compute electrical characteristics voltage s current s max current capacity etc. compare that characteristic with a limit or constraint and compute display the budget or surplus relative to the limit or constraint assuming the net terminates with the object that intersects the flight line for example in .

Interactive routing in the aforementioned examples can be achieved through manual automatic or semi automated or assisted routing operations. The results of the electrical characteristic comparison may be displayed or may also be used to suggest or automatically modify the physical design to correct the problem.

In some embodiments as illustrated in all operations are performed and all information or data are determined and displayed in the same user interface without requiring the user to leave the electronic circuit design tool with which the user interface is associated.

In some embodiments the at least a partial physical design A includes only an incomplete physical design that does not pass a layout versus schematic LVS check or verification. The exemplary schematic flow diagram may then perform one or more simulations on the physical design to generate physical simulation results as illustrated in A in some embodiments. The physical simulation results may comprise information or data indicating the failure of the physical design to satisfy one of the performance specifications as shown in the shaded highlighted or color coded field in A. In some embodiments the exemplary schematic flow further illustrates that various methods or system described herein may evaluate both the schematic simulation results and the physical simulation results to determine how the physical layout or a partial portion thereof impacts the intended design as specified in the schematic design A .

In some embodiments where a portion of a layout is created modified or updated various processes or modules described herein track such creation modification editing or updating and then compute electrical parasitics that are impacted by such creation modification editing or updating. Various processes or modules then update the GUI tables in the interactive browser or the interactive navigator and presents relevant information or data according to a user s identification of a color coding or highlighting scheme or according to a default scheme. Various process or modules may then store or cause to store the computed data such as but not limited to resistance s capacitance s current s current density or densities in one or more data structures such as one or more databases.

In some embodiments some types of data or information may be deleted from the interactive navigator and some other types of data or information may be added to the interactive browser based on a user s input. The data or information in this example is presented in a tabulated format. The data or information presented in the interactive navigator may be sorted or arithmetically mathematically or statistically operated upon in some embodiments. further illustrates the provision for a user to identify or select the dataset in this example the worst case dataset is identified for display and analyses. Moreover in the example illustrated in the New EM tab presents each resistor and its associated data or information for a selected net is presented in a row. The interactive navigator presents EM related results in columns for each resistor of the selected net. In this example the columns include current which is color coded to show when the current exceeds for example maximum current limits that are provided in one or more techfiles The columns further include the layer that a particular resistor is on geometric data or information for an interconnect the total number of cuts and the cut area for vias. In some embodiments columns that represent one or more current values such as average peak and root mean square RMS are shown and color coding is used to indicate when a given value exceeds a constraint or limit associated with that resistor.

The interactive browser presents EM violations for each of a plurality of nets. In some embodiments the interactive browser presents the nets with EM violations with a color coding or highlighting scheme. In some embodiments the color coding or highlighting scheme in the interactive browser is synchronized with that of the interactive GUI. In some other embodiments the interactive browser and the interactive GUI have different color coding or highlighting schemes. Moreover the interactive navigator presents all the resistors for the selected net with the current data. In some embodiments the interactive navigator also adopts the same or different color coding or highlighting scheme to show whether the resistors meet or fail to meet corresponding EM limits.

Upon the application of the change in the width of the resistor element various processes or modules described herein automatically performs certain functions or operations to determine whether this particular resistor element satisfies the EM limit s and if so automatically updates the interactive browser the interactive navigator or the interactive GUI to reflect that this resistor element has satisfied the EM limits in some embodiments. In some embodiments various modules or processes described herein further check at least a portion of the electronic circuit design to determine whether other constraints or requirements are satisfied by this change in the width of the particular resistor element.

The pop up window may further provide provisions for the user to navigate through a plurality of components that exhibit for example EM violations or violations of other constraints or requirements in some embodiments. In addition or in the alternative the pop up window or other part s of the user interface may also comprise recommended fix es such as the minimum width to fix the EM violation s or hint s collectively fix or fixes herein that may resolve the EM violation caused by this particular resistor element in some embodiments. In these embodiments the pop up window or other part s of the user interface may further present the impact or effect of the recommended fix es or hint s such that the user may know how the change in the width of this particular resistor element affects or impacts the electronic circuit design. In some embodiments various processes or modules further provide the option for a user to automatically fix the EM violations while keeping other constraints requirements or the specification in check without human intervention.

In the example illustrated in a pop up window provides an interface for a user to set up the color coding or highlighting scheme that controls how various components may be displayed in the interactive browser the interactive navigator or the interactive GUI. Upon the determination of the color coding or highlight scheme the textual or graphical display of various information or data is then updated in accordance with the color coding or highlighting scheme. In the example illustrated in a first shade or color indicates that an electrical characteristic of a particular component is less than or equal to 80 of the associated limit a second shade or color indicates that an electrical characteristic of a particular component is between 80 and 100 of the associated limit and a third shade or color indicates that an electrical characteristic of a particular component is greater than or equal to 120 of the associated limit. In this example the textual display of various data or information in the interactive navigator is updated in accordance with the color coding or highlighting scheme.

In this example illustrated in the user manipulates the cursor to hover over a given wire segment or a via segment and temporarily stops at the location in the interactive GUI without actually clicking on any particular point in the interactive GUI. In response to the current position of the cursor the method or the system displays the current limit for the wire segment or the via segment where the limiting current occurs in vial in this example and the beginning point and the end point of the segment in . In some embodiments this hover mode supports the ability to use for example a mouse wheel or other means to cycle through shapes that are on other layers if there exist some overlaps of shapes at the location around which the cursor hovers.

For example if there exist four wires directly above the other on four layers the user may use the mouse wheel or other means to scroll through these overlapping shapes and the information balloon automatically updates the displayed information or data in the interactive GUI in some embodiments. In some embodiments the method or the system may also update the contents of the interactive browser or the interactive navigator in response to this hover mode.

In some embodiments the interactive browser or the interactive navigator may also respectively identify the net or the component by for example highlight or color coding the net or showing a bounding box for the net in response to the identification of the identification of the next measurement point and the results of the measurement probe in some embodiments. In some embodiments the method or the system may also interactively respond to the identification of the next measurement point by updating the contents of the interactive navigator or the contents of the interactive browser.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. For example the above described process flows are described with reference to a particular ordering of process actions. However the ordering of many of the described process actions may be changed without affecting the scope or operation of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

