---

title: Pan-antagonists for the androgen receptor and androgen receptor mutants associated with anti-androgen withdrawal
abstract: Disclosed herein are novel antagonists of the androgen receptor and androgen receptor mutations associated with clinical failure of currently prescribed anti-androgens and use of said antagonists in the treatment of conditions associated with inappropriate activation of the androgen receptor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08450374&OS=08450374&RS=08450374
owner: University of Delaware
number: 08450374
owner_city: Newark
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100629
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 221 318 filed Jun. 29 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. R01 DK054257 08A1 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Disclosed herein are novel antagonists of the androgen receptor and mutant forms of the androgen receptor associated with clinical failure of currently prescribed anti androgens.

Thirty to forty percent of prostate cancer patients become androgen independent resistant to anti androgen treatment within five years of anti androgen therapy. In many instances cancer cells adapt by changing receptor or cofactor expression levels or acquire androgen receptor mutations that cause anti androgens to act as agonists or to change receptor specificity. In these cases alternative treatment regimes are needed. Exemplary treatments can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 4 636 505 which discloses acylanilides that have anti androgenic properties and U.S. Pat. No. 7 057 048 which discloses 6 sulfonamido quinolin 2 one and 6 sulfonamido 2 oxo chromeme derivatives and their use as androgen antagonists.

Androgen receptor mutations are found in as many as 50 of metastatic hormone refractory prostate cancer tumors. Studies suggest that 12 24 of hormone refractory metastases from patients treated with flutamide contain the same T877A mutation which causes flutamide to act as an agonist instead of an antagonist. Mutations such as AR W741 C have emerged in response to second generation antiandrogens such as bicalutamide and can similarly lead to clinical failure. Anti androgen resistance also can be caused by abnormal androgen signaling often associated with anomalous expression or modification of androgen receptor or receptor cofactors. Resistance to some antiandrogens has also been associated with androgen receptor overexpression. Residual receptor activity in the presence of antagonists has been observed with other nuclear receptors and in some cases has been effectively blocked by appropriate antagonists bearing long polar extensions that are believed to more effectively block co factor recruitment and alter or block receptor functions essential for specific cellular activities. By analogy antiandrogens with long polar extensions similarly would be expected to have a superior ability to block residual androgen signaling and reduce and or delay the occurrence of anti androgen resistance.

A further aspect is for a method for the treatment of a mammal suffering from an androgen dependent disorder comprising administering to the mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I .

An additional aspect relates to a method for the treatment of a mammal suffering from an androgen dependent disorder comprising administering to the mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or a combination thereof.

An additional aspect if for a method for the treatment of a mammal suffering from benign prostatic hyperplasia comprising administering to the mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or a combination thereof.

A further aspect is for a method for monitoring the effectiveness of treatment of a subject with a compound of Formula I comprising the steps of i obtaining a pre administration sample from a subject prior to administration of the compound ii detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample iii obtaining one or more post administration samples from the subject iv detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the post administration samples comparing the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample with the post administration sample or samples and altering the administration of the compound to the subject accordingly.

Another aspect is for a method for monitoring the effectiveness of treatment of a subject with a compound of Formula II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or a combination thereof comprising the steps of i obtaining a pre administration sample from a subject prior to administration of the compound ii detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample iii obtaining one or more post administration samples from the subject iv detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the post administration samples v comparing the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample with the post administration sample or samples and vi altering the administration of the compound to the subject accordingly.

A further aspect is for a method of reducing androgen receptor overexpression comprising contacting a cell comprising overexpressed androgen receptor with a compound of the Formula II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or a combination thereof thereby decreasing androgen receptor expression in the cell.

Other objects and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reference to the detailed description that hereinafter follows.

Applicants specifically incorporate the entire content of all cited references in this disclosure. Further when an amount concentration or other value or parameter is given as either a range preferred range or a list of upper preferable values and lower preferable values this is to be understood as specifically disclosing all ranges formed from any pair of any upper range limit or preferred value and any lower range limit or preferred value regardless of whether ranges are separately disclosed. Where a range of numerical values is recited herein unless otherwise stated the range is intended to include the endpoints thereof and all integers and fractions within the range. It is not intended that the scope of the invention be limited to the specific values recited when defining a range.

Disclosed herein are bicalutamide analogs that more fully block co activator and other cofactor recruitment to the androgen receptor based on structural models. These are the first examples of bicalutamide analogs to contain polar molecular extensions expected to access the receptor surface and retain potencies similar to bicalutamide. Further the compounds are structurally incompatible with molecular mechanisms that cause antagonists such as bicalutamide to become agonists in AR mutants.

Herein Applicants show that these compounds resist formation of resistant LNCaP clones in in vitro cell based assays. The ability to evade resistance is believed to be not due to the compounds toxicity but rather the result of their molecular mode of inactivating cellular AR. LNCaP cells have been shown to recapitulate aspects of antiandrogen resistance observed in vivo including changes in AR expression cell invasiveness and selection of AR mutations associated with promiscuous and or antiandrogen withdrawal syndrome Cancer Research 2008 68 1128 1135 Cancer Research 2003 63149 153 The Prostate 2005 65 268 275 . These assays are therefore not biased towards any one mechanism of resistance. Compounds that evade antiandrogen resistance in these in vivo models are reasonably expected to have properties that impart a superior ability to evade antiandrogen resistance in vivo.

The term androgen includes all known compounds with androgenic activity. Androgenic activity of compounds may be determined in a variety of ways including in cell based AR transcription assays and in biological activity assays where a compound can be demonstrated to have activity that is similar to the activity of known androgens. These assays can be performed using animals or tissues. For example compounds with androgen activity in the prostate are able to stimulate prostate growth in rodents. Natural androgen metabolites that have biological activity can be used and include for example testosterone androstenedione androstanedione and dihydrotestosterone DHT .

The term androgen dependent disorder refers to any disorder that can benefit from a decrease in androgen stimulation and includes pathological conditions that depend on androgen stimulation. An androgen dependent disorder can result from an excessive accumulation of testosterone or other androgenic hormone increased sensitivity of androgen receptors to androgen an increase in androgen stimulated transcription or benefit from a decrease in androgen response. Examples of androgen dependent disorders include prostate cancer refractory prostate cancer and skin disorders such as for example acne seborrhea hirsutism alopecia or hidradenitis suppurativa.

The term androgen receptor or AR refers to the androgen receptor protein as defined by its conserved amino acid coding sequence in an active or native structural conformation. Nucleic acid sequences encoding androgen receptors have been cloned and sequenced from numerous organisms. Representative organisms and GenBank accession numbers for androgen receptor sequences therefrom include the following frog NM001090884.1 mouse NM013476.1 rat NM012502.1 human NM000044.2 canine NM001003053.1 rhesus monkey NM001032911.1 zebrafish NM001083123.1 chimpanzee NM001009012.1 chicken NM001040090.1 pig NM214314.1 horse NM001163891.1 rabbit U16366.1 cow Z75313.1 Z75314.1 Z75315.1 canary L25901.1 and whiptail lizard S79938.1 .

The term androgen receptor overexpression or AR overexpression means the state of cells or tissues having abnormally high concentrations of the androgen receptor. This can be caused by several mechanisms including increased transcription of the genes encoding AR increased translational activity of AR and or increased cellular stability of AR. AR overexpression is known to cause cells to become resistant to antiandrogens in current clinical use. Some antiandrogens can also modulate expression of cytokines which can enhance a survival response to prostatic tissues.

The term anti androgen as used herein refers compounds that specifically block the actions of androgens on the AR. Anti androgens are believed to act by competitively inhibiting the action of androgens by binding to androgen receptors and or mutant forms of the androgen receptor and preventing androgens from binding to the receptors and entering the cell nucleus. Formula I compounds are examples of anti androgens.

Anti androgen resistance refers to the state of a androgen dependent tissue or cell which no longer responds to a specific anti androgens in a specific androgen responsive assay.

The term benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH refers to a benign adenoma derived from a transitional region of the prostate in which prostate epithelial cells grow abnormally and block urine flow.

The terms effective amount therapeutically effective amount and effective dosage as used herein refer to the amount of a Formula I compound that when administered to a mammal in need is effective to at least partially ameliorate a condition from which the mammal is suspected to suffer.

The term mammal refers to a human a non human primate canine feline bovine ovine porcine murine or other veterinary or laboratory mammal. Those skilled in the art recognize that a therapy which reduces the severity of a pathology in one species of mammal is predictive of the effect of the therapy on another species of mammal. The skilled person also appreciates that credible animal models of human prostate cancer pathologies are known.

Thiols were synthesized from their corresponding anilines or amines when not commercially available. Briefly concentrated hydrochloric acid was added to a cooled solution of amine or aniline dissolved in water. A cooled solution of sodium nitrite in water was added slowly and the reaction stirred for 30 minutes. This solution was then added to a solution of potassium ethyl xanthate in water warmed to 45 C. and stirred for a further 30 minutes. Diethyl ether was added and the organic layer was washed with 10 sodium hydroxide and water until neutral. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The crude product was then dissolved in ethanol and heated to reflux. Potassium hydroxide pellets were added and refluxing was continued overnight. The ethanol was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water and extracted with diethyl ether. The aqueous layer was acidified with 2 N HCl and extracted with diethyl ether. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to yield the crude thiol which could be further purified by column chromatography if necessary. Alternatively thiols can be generated by transition metal mediated cross coupling with aryl halides or aryl triflates see for example Buchwald et al. Tetrahedron 2004 60 7397 and Zheng et al. J. Organic Chemistry 1998 63 9606 .

Aryl and alkyl amines can be derived directly from their corresponding nitro compounds. Briefly the nitro compound and 10 palladium on carbon were dissolved in methanol and purged with nitrogen then placed under an atmosphere of hydrogen overnight or until the reaction was complete. The reaction mixture was filtered and solvent evaporated to yield the desired amine.

The thiols were added to the epoxide N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide to form the sulfide intermediate. This epoxide was synthesized following published procedures. For example Chen et al. J. Organic Chemistry 2003 68 10181 and Tucker H. Crook J. W. and Chesterson J. W. J. Med. Chem. 1988 31 954. 

The epoxide ring opening was achieved using a base and the appropriate thiol in a suitable solvent. For example sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil was suspended in THF tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 0 C. A solution of the thiol in THF was added via syringe and stirred for 5 minutes. N 4 Cyano 3 trifluorophenyl methacrylamide epoxide dissolved in THF was added slowly. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The compound was purified by column chromatography.

The sulfide intermediate was oxidized to give the final desired sulfone compounds. Briefly the sulfide was dissolved in dichloromethane and cooled to 78 C. 30 hydrogen peroxide was added followed by the slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane and cold water and brine were added. The reaction was stirred for 20 minutes. The organic layer was separated dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The compound was purified by column chromatography.

Some of the compounds of Formula I will exist as optical isomers. Any reference in this application to one of the compounds represented by Formula I is meant to encompass either a specific optical isomer or a mixture of optical isomers unless it is expressly excluded . The specific optical isomers can be separated and recovered by techniques known in the art such as chromatography on chiral stationary phases or resolution via chiral salt formation and subsequent separation by selective crystallization. Alternatively utilization of a specific optical isomer as the starting material will produce the corresponding isomer as the final product.

Formula I compounds can be administered to subjects in a biologically compatible form suitable for pharmaceutical administration in vivo. By biologically compatible form suitable for administration in vivo is meant a form of the Formula I compound to be administered in which any toxic effects are outweighed by the therapeutic effects of the compound. The term subject is intended to include living organisms in which an immune response can be elicited for example mammals. Administration of a Formula I compound as described herein can be in any pharmacological form including a therapeutically active amount of a Formula I compound alone or in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A therapeutically effective amount of a Formula I compound may vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the individual and the ability of the compound to elicit a desired response in the individual. Dosage regime may be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. For example several divided doses may be administered daily or the dose may be proportionally reduced as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation.

The therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions can be administered by any suitable route known in the art including for example intravenous subcutaneous intramuscular transdermal intrathecal or intracerebral or administration to cells in ex vivo treatment protocols. Administration can be either rapid as by injection or over a period of time as by slow infusion or administration of slow release formulation. For treating prostate cancer administration of the therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be performed for example orally or subcutaneously. For skin disorders administration of the therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be performed for example topical or oral administration.

Formula I compounds can also be linked or conjugated with agents that provide desirable pharmaceutical or pharmacodynamic properties. For example Formula I compounds can be coupled to any substance known in the art to promote penetration or transport across the blood brain barrier such as an antibody to the transferrin receptor and administered by intravenous injection see e.g. Friden P M et al. Science 259 373 77 1993 . Furthermore Formula I compounds can be stably linked to a polymer such as polyethylene glycol to obtain desirable properties of solubility stability half life and other pharmaceutically advantageous properties see e.g. Davis et al. Enzyme Eng. 4 169 73 1978 Burnham N L Am. J. Hosp. Pharm. 51 210 18 1994 .

Furthermore Formula I compounds can be in a composition which aids in delivery into the cytosol of a cell. For example a Formula I compound may be conjugated with a carrier moiety such as a liposome that is capable of delivering the compound into the cytosol of a cell. Such methods are well known in the art see e.g. Amselem S et al. Chem. Phys. Lipids 64 219 37 1993 . Alternatively the compound can be delivered directly into a cell by microinjection.

The Formula I compounds are usefully employed in the form of pharmaceutical preparations. Such preparations are made in a manner well known in the pharmaceutical art. One preferred preparation utilizes a vehicle of physiological saline solution but it is contemplated that other pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as physiological concentrations of other non toxic salts five percent aqueous glucose solution sterile water or the like may also be used. As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active compound use thereof in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions. It may also be desirable that a suitable buffer be present in the composition. Such solutions can if desired be lyophilized and stored in a sterile ampoule ready for reconstitution by the addition of sterile water for ready injection. The primary solvent can be aqueous or alternatively non aqueous. Formula I compounds can also be incorporated into a solid or semi solid biologically compatible matrix which can be implanted into tissues requiring treatment.

The carrier can also contain other pharmaceutically acceptable excipients for modifying or maintaining the pH osmolarity viscosity clarity color sterility stability rate of dissolution or odor of the formulation. Similarly the carrier may contain still other pharmaceutically acceptable excipients for modifying or maintaining release or absorption or penetration across the blood brain barrier. Such excipients are those substances usually and customarily employed to formulate dosages for parenteral administration in either unit dosage or multi dose form or for direct infusion by continuous or periodic infusion.

Formula I compounds may be used individually or in combination and with other anti androgens or other treatments such as flutamide bicalutamide and nilutamide irradiation heat luteinizing hormone releasing hormone or luteinizing hormone releasing hormone analog such as goserelin or the like as may be conventionally employed and as may be moderated for use in conjunction with the Formula I compounds.

Dose administration can be repeated depending upon the pharmacokinetic parameters of the dosage formulation and the route of administration used.

It is also provided that certain formulations containing the Formula I compounds are to be administered orally. Such formulations are preferably encapsulated and formulated with suitable carriers in solid dosage forms. Some examples of suitable carriers excipients and diluents include lactose dextrose sucrose sorbitol mannitol starches gum acacia calcium phosphate alginates calcium silicate microcrystalline cellulose polyvinylpyrrolidone cellulose gelatin syrup methyl cellulose methyl and propylhydroxybenzoates talc magnesium stearate water mineral oil and the like. The formulations can additionally include lubricating agents wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents preserving agents sweetening agents or flavoring agents. The compositions may be formulated so as to provide rapid sustained or delayed release of the active ingredients after administration to the patient by employing procedures well known in the art. The formulations can also contain substances that diminish proteolytic degradation and or substances which promote absorption such as for example surface active agents.

In some embodiments Formula I compounds are utilized for the treatment of androgen related diseases of the skin such as for example acne seborrhea hirsutism alopecia or hidradenitis suppurativa. When used for any of these purposes the Formula I compounds are preferably administered topically together with a conventional topical carrier or diluent. When used topically it is preferred that the diluent or carrier does not promote transdermal penetration of the active ingredients into the blood stream or other tissues where they might cause unwanted systemic effects.

It is especially advantageous to formulate compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the mammalian subjects to be treated each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on a the unique characteristics of the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved and b the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for the treatment of sensitivity in individuals. The specific dose can be readily calculated by one of ordinary skill in the art e.g. according to the approximate body weight or body surface area of the patient or the volume of body space to be occupied. The dose will also be calculated dependent upon the particular route of administration selected. Further refinement of the calculations necessary to determine the appropriate dosage for treatment is routinely made by those of ordinary skill in the art. Such calculations can be made without undue experimentation by one skilled in the art in light of the anti androgen activity disclosed herein in assay preparations of target cells. Exact dosages are determined in conjunction with standard dose response studies. It will be understood that the amount of the composition actually administered will be determined by a practitioner in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition or conditions to be treated the choice of composition to be administered the age weight and response of the individual patient the severity of the patient s symptoms and the chosen route of administration.

Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of such compounds can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals for example for determining the LD the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the ED the dose therapeutically effective in 50 of the population . The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio LD ED. Compounds which exhibit large therapeutic indices are preferred. While compounds that exhibit toxic side effects may be used care should be taken to design a delivery system that targets such compounds to the site of affected tissue in order to minimize potential damage to uninfected cells and thereby reduce side effects.

The data obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of such compounds lies preferably within a range of circulating concentrations that include the EDwith little or no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized. For any compound used in the method of the invention the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays. A dose may be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that includes the IC i.e. the concentration of the test compound which achieves a half maximal inhibition of symptoms as determined in cell culture. Such information can be used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma may be measured for example by high performance liquid chromatography.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method for monitoring the effectiveness of treatment of a subject with a Formula I compound comprising the steps of i obtaining a pre administration sample from a subject prior to administration of the compound ii detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample iii obtaining one or more post administration samples from the subject iv detecting the level of androgen receptor activity in the post administration samples v comparing the level of androgen receptor activity in the pre administration sample with the post administration sample or samples and vi altering the administration of the compound to the subject accordingly. For example increased administration of the Formula I compound may be desirable to decrease the activity of androgen receptor to lower levels than detected that is to increase the effectiveness of the compound. Alternatively decreased administration of the compound may be desirable to increase androgen receptor activity to higher levels than detected that is to decrease the effectiveness of the compound.

In another embodiment the ability of a Formula I compound to modulate androgen receptor activity in a subject that would benefit from modulation of the activity of the androgen receptor can be measured by detecting an improvement in the condition of the patient after the administration of the compound. Such improvement can be readily measured by one of ordinary skill in the art using indicators appropriate for the specific condition of the patient. Monitoring the response of the patient by measuring changes in the condition of the patient is preferred in situations where the collection of biopsy materials would pose an increased risk and or detriment to the patient.

Furthermore in the treatment of disease conditions compositions containing Formula I compounds can be administered exogenously and it would likely be desirable to achieve certain target levels of Formula I compounds in sera in any desired tissue compartment or in the affected tissue. It would therefore be advantageous to be able to monitor the levels of Formula I compounds in a patient or in a biological sample including a tissue biopsy sample obtained from a patient. Accordingly the present invention also provides methods for detecting the presence of Formula I compounds in a sample from a patient.

Some embodiments are directed to the reduction of androgen receptor overexpression. Compounds of Formula I can be used to contact a cell comprising overexpressed androgen receptor thereby decreasing androgen receptor expression. Methods of administering anti androgens as described in this section are useful for contacting cells with the Formula I compounds.

In a preferred embodiment the cells components of or originate from the prostate epithelium and or the prostate stroma.

In addition to Formula I compounds compounds from Published U.S. Patent Application No. 2008 0064757 can also be useful in reducing androgen receptor overexpression. These compounds have the formula

All of the compositions and methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents which are chemically or biologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The present invention is further defined in the following Examples. It should be understood that these Examples are given by way of illustration only. From the above discussion and these Examples one skilled in the art can ascertain the preferred features of this invention and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof can make various changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various uses and conditions.

25 mg 50 mol PAN11 see for structure 42 mg 129 mol anhydrous cesium carbonate and 8 mg 50 mol 3 dimethylaminopropylchloride hydrochloride were mixed in 1 ml anhydrous DMF dimethylformamide . The reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen overnight. After reaction the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated washed with water brine and dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The crude oil was partially refined by silica chromatography followed by purification by C4 HPLC 0.3 ml min acetonitrile 0.01 TFA water solution . HPLC separation yield 5.2 mg PAN42 8.8 mol 17 yield . C NMR 101 MHz MeOD 175.25 158.09 144.05 143.11 139.66 137.01 134.89 132.47 131.86 131.42 129.47 128.60 127.59 124.11 121.86 119.08 117.70 116.71 112.59 104.78 101.41 74.73 66.75 64.29 57.15 45.05 34.03 28.11 27.71. H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 8.12 s 1H 7.97 7.76 m 3H 7.51 t J 6.9 1H 7.33 d J 7.8 1H 7.25 d J 7.4 1H 7.15 t J 8.0 1H 6.83 s 2H 6.76 d J 6.1 1H 3.86 d J 6.4 2H 3.56 d J 14.8 1H 3.45 t J 6.4 2H 3.08 d J 14.8 1H 2.96 s 6H 1.75 d J 6.4 2H 1.25 s 3H .

To a solution of 2 bromophenyl 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzyl sulfane 1.37 g 3.7 mmol and 2 isopropoxy 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 700 mg 3.7 mmol in 37 ml THF at 78 C. was added dropwise 6.2 ml 7.4 mmol of 1.2 M t butyllithium. The reaction was allowed to stir at 78 C. for 45 min before NHCl was added and the resulting mixture extracted with ethyl ether 3 15 ml . The organic layer was washed with brine 3 15 ml dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The product 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 2 2 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzylthio phenyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane was crystallized from ether 0.8 g 52 yield and was used in next reaction without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz CD 1.34 s 12H 3.7 s 6H 3.8 s 3H 4.14 s 2H 6.08 s 2H 7.09 7.13 m 1H 7.21 7.29 m 1H 7.37 7.39 m 1H 7.59 m 1H 13C NMR 100 MHz C6D6 24.8 27.6 55.3 55.7 83.84 90.5 106.9 124.7 129.6 130.4 134.9 144.1 159.1 160.3 HRMS calcd for CHBOS M Na 439.1726 found 439.1742.

A mixture of 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 2 2 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzylthio phenyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 1.2 g 2.9 mmol 3 lodophenol 0.65 g 2.9 mmol AgCO 0.82 g 2.9 mmol and Pd PPh 0.16 g 0.15 mmol in 6 ml of THF was refluxed in the dark for 12 h. The reaction mixture was poured into HO and the resulting mixture extracted with ether. The organic layer was washed with brine 3 20 ml and dried over MgSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by silica flash chromatography 40 60 ethylacetate hexane to afford 2 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzylthio biphenyl 3 ol.

N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 hydroxy 3 3 hydroxybiphenyl 2 ylsulfonyl 2 methylpropanamide PAN51 was prepared from the reaction of 2 2 4 6 trimethoxybenzylthio biphenyl 3 ol and N 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2 methyloxirane 2 carboxamide in ethanol with triethylamine as described previously.

Pan52 was prepared from Pan51 as follows To a solution of Pan51 58 mg 0.11 mmol in 3.7 ml DMF was added CsCO 72 mg 0.22 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 10 min before 0.57 ml 0.22 mmol solution of 3 dimethylamino propyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 100 mg ml was a added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was diluted with methylene chloride and washed with HO. Organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using silica flash chromatography 5 95 Methanol saturated with NH methylene chloride to yield 49 mg of Pan 52 72 yield .

Twenty four hours prior to transfection CV 1 cells were seeded at a density of 45 000 cells per well in 24 well cell culture plates and grown in phenol red free Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM supplemented with 10 cosmic calf serum COS . ARE luciferase reporter and Renilla Luc as the internal standard and a prokaryotic expression vector encoding the wild type androgen receptor or mutant androgen receptor were transfected with Lipofectamine Invitrogen following manufacturer s protocol. Five hours after transfection media was added containing the appropriate concentrations of ligands. The cells were allowed to incubate for 38 hours before harvesting by passive lysis buffer. Cell extracts were immediately assayed using the Dual Luciferase Assay Promega with a Perkin Elmer Microbeta Luminometer. Activity is reported in relative light unit RLU determined as the ratio of inducible firefly luciferase luminescence divided by the luminescence of the renilla luciferase control normalized to 10 nM DHT in hAR wt . Dose response data was analyzed by nonlinear regression analysis using GraphPad Prism. See Table 1 for results.

Cell based reporter gene assays show that the analogs are potent antagonists in cells expressing AR mutants that cause bicalutamide to be agonists.

Twenty four hours prior to transfection COS 7 cells were seeded at a density of 70 000 cells per well in 24 well cell culture plates and grown in phenol red free Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM supplement with 10 cosmic calf serum CCS . The cells were transfected with a prokaryotic expression vector encoding the wild type androgen receptor or mutant androgen receptor using Lipofectamine Invitrogen following manufacturer s protocol. The cells were allowed to grow for 30 hours and then labeled for 2 hours at 37 C. with H DHT and the appropriate concentration of ligands. Cells were washed with PBS and harvested in 2 SDS 10 glycerol and 10 mM Tris pH 6.8 and radioactivity determined by scintillation counting. See Table 2 for results.

Radioligand displacement binding assays confirm that compounds are competitive for DHT binding to AR.

Viability of LNCaP cells in the presence of bicalutamide and PAN52 were determined by Live Dead Molecular Probes Invitrogen cell viability assay kit following manufacturer s protocol. LnCaP cells are seeded at 45 000 per 32 mm dish and grown in RPMI supplemented with 10 DCC FBS in the presence of PAN52 or bicalutamide. Media was changed every 3 days and floating cells were centrifuged down and reseeded into dish. LIVE DEAD reagent was added after 9 days culturing. Live cells indicated by green fluorescence were counted and compared to the number of dead cells red . Bicalutamide and PAN52 have similar cellular toxicities at 1 M indicating that differences in cellular behavior induced by PAN52 versus bicalutimde at 1 M are not due to indiscriminate cell toxicity. See .

Clonogenic assays are performed by a modification of the procedure described by Nara et al. Cancer Research 2003 63 149 153 . LNCaP cells were seeded at a density of 80 000 cells per well in 6 well cell culture plates and maintained in 3 ml phenol red free RPMI 1640 with 10 DCC FBS in the presence and absence of 1 M ligands bicalutamide and PAN52. Media was changed every three days was and documented weekly. If cells reach 95 confluence the cells were counted and reseeded at a density of 80 000 cell per well. See .

LNCaP cells were seeded at a density of 80 000 cells per well in 6 well cell culture plates and maintained in 3 ml phenol red free RPMI 1640 with 10 DCC FBS in the presence and absence of 1 M ligands bicalutamide and PAN52. Media was changed every three days. Cell numbers was counted at by hemacytometer. Cell number is reported in relative cell number determined as the ratio of cell numbers divided by the number seeded 80 000 cells well . See .

As essentially all AR dependent signaling paradigms require AR to enter the nucleus it is generally believed that reducing AR localization in the nucleus as a readout for antiandrogen action could be effective in blocking multiple AR resistance mechanisms including AR overexpression gain of function mutations and outlaw pathways. Applicants evaluated PLM1 PLM6 and Pan52 in CV 1 cells expressing GFP AR. CV 1 monkey kidney cells were seeded in a 12 well plate at a concentration of 50 000 cells per well. After 24 h the cells were transfected with GFP AR in a solution of Opti MEM and Lipofectamine 2000 and incubated overnight. The cells were then imaged on a fluorescent microscope followed by the addition of 6 respective ligands and control DMSO vehicle . The ligand concentrations in the wells were 10 M for DHT and 100 M for all other ligands. The cells were incubated for two hours and again imaged. The cells were fixed and stained DAPI to image the nucleus.

As shown in in the absence of ligand in hormone depleted media GFP AR is diffuse throughout the nucleus and cytoplasm however upon treatment with the agonist DHT or the antagonists mifepristone or bicalutamide GFP AR fluorescence localizes almost exclusively within the nucleus. By contrast cells treated with PLM6 or Pan52 show little to no nuclear localization. The response to PLM1 is more intermediate showing partial localization in the nucleus but clear cytoplasmic fluorescence as well.

These studies establish that PLM1 PLM6 and Pan52 function differently from known antagonists in their ability to localize GFP AR. Reduced nuclear localization may contribute to the ability of PLM6 and Pan52 but not bicalutamide and PLM1 to evade resistance in vitro selections.

Peptide probes that bind selectively to AR in the presence of certain but not all AR ligands have been used as a means to evaluate and classify agonists and antagonists of similar function. Applicants examined the ability of antagonists to mediate coactivator peptide D11 FXXLF by TR FRET using Tb labeled AR ligand binding domain LBD and fluorescein labeled peptide Invitrogen PV8431 following manufacture s protocol. Briefly serial dilutions of ligand stocks solutions in DMSO were made in TR FRET coregulator buffer A in a 384 well plate. To each well was added a 4 stock solution of the AR LBD followed by a 4 stock solution of fluorescein D 11 peptide and lanthanide labeled antiGST antibody. The plates were read by time resolved fluorescence after 2 h and 4 h incubation.

Applicants observed association of coactivator peptide in the presence of nanomolar concentrations of DHT. Reminiscent of the ability of high concentrations of bicalutamide to act as an agonist in AR over expressing cells Applicants observed coactivator association to bicalutamide liganded AR LBD similar to reported studies. By contrast PLM1 PLM6 and Pan52 do not show coactivator association in these concentrations .

Taken together nuclear localization Example 9 and coactivator association Example 10 assays demonstrate that PLM1 PLM6 and Pan52 interact with AR in a fundamentally different manner than the current repertoire of clinically used AR antagonists.

Male C57BI 6 mice were divided into four groups sham castrates castrates and drug treated PLM6 N 3 at two time points or bicalutamide N 3 at two time points . PLM6 and bicalutamide were injected IP as 9 1 peanut oil antagonist resuspended in ethanol at 25 mg kg day in intact mice not castrated . Under these conditions no abnormal behavior in grooming or feeding was observed for either the 3 d or 5 d course. Weight loss was observed but did not approach 10 of body weight. There was 1 death with PLM6 at 5 days of treatment and two deaths in the bicalutamide groups. Prostates were removed from 3 day and 5 day treatment groups sectioned and stained by H E and TUNEL. PLM6 and bicalutamide showed a significant increase in apoptosis as compared to sham operated controls at both day 3 and day 5 with apoptosis increasing in all groups from day 3 to day 5 TUNEL .

PLM6 induced glandular apoptosis was 19.9 2.8 cells per 20 field on day 3 P 0.0064 that reached 24.63 3 cells per 20 field on day 5 P 2.59 10 . Prostates from treated and control mice were isolated fixed sectioned and stained TUNEL BrdU . Sections were then evaluated by visible light microscopy and counting.

The actions of bicalutamide also were performed . Bicalutamide had 21.04 4.7 cells per 20 field P 0.00014 . This value is indistinguishable from PLM6. Five days Bic treatment resulted in 50.83 8.2 cells per 20 field. This value is slightly more than twice that observed in PLM6 treated prostates at day 5.

Compounds that down regulate the levels of AR in prostate cancer may be effective in androgen dependent cells and anti androgen resistant cells that over express the androgen receptor. Applicants observed downregulation of AR protein levels in LNCaP and CRW22 cells upon treatment with PLM1 PAN52 PLM6 relative to bicalutamide DHT or DMSO controls. LNCaP or CRW22RV1 cells were treated with 10 M 50 M or 100 M compound for 24 h. Cells were harvested and lysed. Cell lysates were analyzed by SDS PAGE followed by immunostaining with anti AR and anti lamin antibodies see .

Male C57Bl 6 mice were treated with PAN52 or vehicle ethanol injected IP as 9 1 Cremophor antagonist resuspended in ethanol at 25 mg kg day in intact mice not castrated . Under these conditions no abnormal behavior in grooming or feeding was observed for either the 3 day or 5 day course. Prostates were removed from 3 day and 5 day treatment groups sectioned and stained by H E and TUNEL. PAN52 showed an increase in apoptosis as compared to control at both day 3 and day 5 see .

