---

title: Ultraviolet light emitting AlGaN composition and ultraviolet light emitting device containing same
abstract: An AlGaN composition is provided comprising a group III-Nitride active region layer, for use in an active region of a UV light emitting device, wherein light-generation occurs through radiative recombination of carriers in nanometer scale size, compositionally inhomogeneous regions having band-gap energy less than the surrounding material. Further, a semiconductor UV light emitting device having an active region layer comprised of the AlGaN composition above is provided, as well as a method of producing the AlGaN composition and semiconductor UV light emitting device, involving molecular beam epitaxy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08564014&OS=08564014&RS=08564014
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08564014
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100712
---
This application is a continuation of a claims priority to application Ser. No. 11 376 453 titled Ultraviolet Light Emitting AlGaN Composition And Ultraviolet Light Emitting Device Containing Same and filed on Mar. 15 2006 which claims the priority of the corresponding provisional application Ser. No. 60 663 144 filed Mar. 18 2005 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. This application is related to application Ser. No. 11 376 452 filed on even date for a Method of Manufacturing An Ultraviolet Light Emitting AlGaN Composition And Ultraviolet Light Emitting Device Containing Same.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention provides an ultraviolet UV light emitting AlGaN composition a UV light emitting device and a method of making both. In particular a UV light emitting device is provided comprised of an active region layer composed of AlGaN having localized nanoscale compositional inhomogeneities therein as well as a manufacturing method for producing such an UV light emitting device.

Conventionally blue violet LED s have been made using InGaN alloys to produce the layers thereof. Problems encountered when fabricating optical sources using high dislocation density III Nitride materials such as InGaN alloys was first addressed during the development of LED s using the InGaN alloy system. It was found that the material properties of InGaN alloys change as the amount of indium in the alloy is increased. With the proper growth conditions however it was discovered that material could be grown in which the indium did not incorporate uniformly throughout the InGaN layer i.e. the material has areas of high and low concentrations of indium spread throughout . These compositional fluctuations also known as localized inhomogeneities result in carrier localization and lead to an enhancement in the radiative efficiency despite the high dislocation density.

The discovery of the effects of the localized inhomogeneities enabled the development of commercially successful blue InGaN based LEDs and laser diodes LDs . See P. Waltereit H. Sato C. Poblenz D. S. Green J. S. Brown M. Mclaurin T. Katona S. P. DenBaars J. S. Speck J. H. Liang M. Kato H. Tamura S. Omori and C. Funaoka 84 2748 2004 S. Nakamura M. Senoh N. Iwasa and S. Nagahama 67 1868 1995 S. Nakamura 13 705 1995 S. Nakamura T. Mukai M. Senoh 76 8189 1994 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Specifically it has been reported that the intense red shifted photoluminescence PL peaks observed in InGaN alloys at room temperature result from the recombination of excitons localized at potential minima originating from large compositional fluctuations. See S. Chichibu T. Azuhata T. Sota and S. Nakamura 70 2822 1997 S. Chichibu K. Wada and S. Nakamura 71 2346 1997 Y. Sun Y. Cho E. K. Suh H. J. Lee R. J. Choi and Y. B. Hahn 84 49 2004 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Unfortunately InGaN alloys are not suitable for use in UV LED s at wavelengths shorter than 365 nanometers nm .

A similar localization effect resulting from the creation of localized inhomogeneities has been reported for quaternary InAlGaN alloys having an InN mole fraction of up to 20 and an AlN mole fraction of up to 60 corresponding to light emission at wavelengths shorter than 365 nm. See E. Monroy N. Gogneau F. Enjalbert F. Fossard D. Jalabert E. Bellet Amalric Le Si Dang and B. Daudin 94 3121 2003 Mee Yi Ryu C. Q. Chen E. Kuokstis J. W. Yang G. Simin and M. Asif Khan 80 3730 2002 H. Hirayama A. Kinoshita T. Yamabi Y. Enomoto A. Hirata T. Araki Y. Nanishi and Y. Aoyagi 80 207 2002 C. H. Chen Y. F. Chen Z. H. Lan L. C. Chen K. H. Chen H. X. Jiang and J. Y. Lin 84 1480 2004 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. The carrier localization observed in such InAlGaN quaternary materials is also attributed to indium segregation therein resulting in enhanced luminescence at a peak wavelength significantly red shifted 150 to 300 meV with respect to the band edge.

The use of aluminum gallium nitride AlGaN as opposed to InAlGaN is preferred as the base material for manufacturing UV LED devices due to the difficulty in growing device quality quaternary material InAlGaN . AlGaN has therefore become the most important material for use in the development of ultraviolet semiconductor optical sources operating at wavelengths between 260 to 360 nm due to its tunable bandgap from 3.4 eV to 6.2 eV. Such sources have many useful military and commercial applications including water purification phosphor based white light sources high density data storage bioagent detection and non line of sight NLOS covert communication. See G. A. Shaw A. M. Siegel J. Model and N. Nischan Vol. 5417 2004 and E. Radkov R. Bompiedi A. M. Srivastava A. A. Setlur and C. A. Becket 5187 176 2004 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

A major problem in manufacturing practical III Nitride based sources such as AlGaN alloys is the lack of a native substrate for the homoepitaxial growth of epilayers. Consequently most devices are deposited heteroepitaxially on lattice mismatched substrates like sapphire or SiC with the resulting layer quality limited by the high density of threading dislocations produced therein. Such threading dislocations present in AlGaN alloys deposited heteroepitaxially on lattice mismatched substrates are associated with non radiative recombination centers that compete with radiative recombination paths thus reducing the radiative recombination efficiency of these materials. One method for reducing the number of dislocations in III nitride materials deposited by molecular beam epitaxy is to employ III Nitride templates as a substrate that consists of an In Ga Al N thin film deposited upon a substrate commonly sapphire or SiC by a high temperature growth process 1000 C. such as metalorganic chemical vapor deposition or hydride vapor phase epitaxy.

With regard to optical sources these threading dislocations present in AlGaN alloys deposited heteroepitaxially on lattice mismatched substrates greatly reduce the wall plug efficiency i.e. the ratio of the power of the light emitted versus the electrical power applied . Currently the best reported UV light emitting diodes LED have very low wall plug efficiencies 1 or below with the remaining input power being converted to heat. See A. Khan SPIE Vol. 4996 2003 T. M. Katona T. Margalith C. Moe M. C. Schmidt S. Nakamura J. S. Speck S. P. DenBaars SPIE Vol. 5187 2004 K. B. Nam J. Li M. L. Nakarmi J. Y. Lin and H. X. Jiang 84 5264 2004 S. Wieczorek W. W. Chow S. R. Lee A. J. Fisher A. A. Allerman and M. H. Crawford 84 4899 2004 M. H. Crawford A. A. Allerman A. J. Fisher K. H. A. Bogart S. R. Lee R. J. Kaplar W. W. Chow and D. M. Follstaedt SPIE Vol. 5366 2004 A. Chitnis J. Sun V. Mandavilli R. Pachipulusu S. Wu M. Gaevski V. Adivarahan J. P. Zhang M. Asif Khan A. Sarua and M. Kuball 81 3491 2002 V. Adivarahan S. Wu J. P. Zhang A. Chitnis M. Shatalov V. Mandavilli R. Gaska and M. Asif Khan 84 4762 2004 V. Adivarahan W. H. Sun A. Chitnis M. Shatalov S. Wu H. P. Maruska and M. Asif Khan 85 2175 2004 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The low wall plug efficiency further results in excessive heating of the UV LED material which reduces the lifetime thereof and may change the spectral and power output properties of UV LEDs. For these reasons such UV LED devices are commonly pulsed in operation such that the duty cycle is kept low enough to reduce undesirable heating effects on the UV LED material. Extracting the heat from these devices can also be challenging since the most commonly used substrate sapphire is a poor thermal conductor at room temperature. This difficulty in heat extraction requires elaborate packaging of the UV LED material such as including flip chip bonding of the final device to a thermally conductive substrate to help conductively dissipate the heat. These devices then emit light through the sapphire substrate and are referred to as back emitters .

The red shifts in the enhanced luminescence seen in In Al GaN quaternary alloys are much larger than those typically reported for AlGaN alloys of comparable Al content 10 to 50 meV . These AlGaN alloys are referred to herein as band edge AlGaN alloys. Accordingly it has been found that the large compositional fluctuations i.e. localized inhomogeneities resulting in the desirable carrier localization that leads to an enhancement in the radiative efficiency obtained using the current growth methods of InGaN alloys do not occur when using such methods to grow AlGaN alloys needed for the production of UV LEDs. In fact it has been previously believed that AlGaN material systems cannot have unstable mixing regions i.e. localized inhomogeneities that would result in phase separation as is the case for InGaN materials. See T. Matsuoka Calculation of unstable mixing region in wurtzite InGaAlN Applied Physics Letters 71 105 1997 .

These smaller red shifts found in the band edge AlGaN alloys of comparable Al content 10 to 50 meV are often attributed to emission from bandtails associated with small alloy fluctuations and structural disorder. See Y. H. Cho G. H. Gainer J. B. Lam W. Yang W. Jhe and J. J. Song 61 7203 2000 A. Bell S. Srinivasan C. Plumlee H. Omiya F. A. Ponce J. Christen S. Tanaka A. Fujioka and Y. Nakagawa 95 4670 2004 H. S. Kim R. A. Mair J. Li J. Y. Lin and H. X. Jiang 76 1252 2000 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. While AlGaN on sapphire possesses long lived low temperature photoluminescence PL on the order of 250 600 picoseconds ps a significant reduction in PL lifetime to less than 20 ps at room temperature is generally observed due to thermally activated trapping and non radiative recombination at defect sites in the AlGaN alloy.

These short room temperature lifetimes found in UV LED s comprising band edge AlGaN on sapphire correspond to low wall plug efficiencies as discussed above. Without the availability of lattice matched substrates with reduced defect density or the advantages of compositional fluctuations i.e. localized inhomogeneities found in InGaN alloys made using the conventional methods of production production of efficient UV LED using band edge AlGaN alloys has been found to be practically impossible.

Most conventional UV LED s are based on the same basic device structure. The substrate preparation and the nucleation steps for epilayer growth however are dependent upon the chemistry of the substrate used. These processes as well as the subsequent buffer layers deposited greatly affect the number of defects in the material. For example in a conventional UV LED device structure a thick silicon doped n type AlGaN layer is grown to function as the bottom current spreading layer of the UV LED device. For a back emitter device as described above the AlN mole fraction of this current spreading layer is made large enough to ensure that the current spreading layer is transparent to the light emitted from the active region layer.

Next a multiple quantum well MQW active region layer is deposited upon the current spreading layer with the number and thickness of the multiple quantum wells formed within the MQW layer depending on the particular device. This MQW layer is then generally capped with an AlGaN electron blocking layer the AlGaN electron blocking layer optionally being doped p type. Next a p type GaN contact layer is formed upon the AlGaN electron blocking layer. The p type GaN contact layer is required due to the difficulties in doping AlGaN p type.

The p type GaN contact layer may optionally be replaced by many different AlGaN p type layers depending on the particular device. If the MQW active region layer is replaced for example by an AlGaN layer with one aluminum percentage then the device is called a double heterostructure DH LED. While this conventional UV LED device structure is simple to grow it is not possible to produce efficient DH UV LEDs using the above described method due to the susceptibility of the active region layer to the non radiative recombination centers typically found in these materials polarization fields that tend to separate the electron hole pairs and the lack of quantum confinement to improve electron hole wave function overlap. The latter two reasons lead to a longer radiative lifetime in the bulk active layers that does not compete favorably with the non radiative processes.

One method for depositing III Nitride films is a technique called molecular beam epitaxy MBE . This technique is a thin film deposition process in which thermal beams of atoms or molecules react on the clean surface of a substrate held at high temperatures and under ultra high vacuum conditions. The material sources for III Nitride semiconductors traditionally consist of solid elemental constituent sources of gallium Ga aluminum Al and indium In that evaporate from the melt as well as n and p type dopant sources silicon Si and magnesium Mg that sublimate. Since molecular nitrogen N does not crack on the substrate surface plasma sources are employed to generate active nitrogen species from this gas source. Accordingly this molecular beam epitaxy technique is commonly referred to as plasma assisted molecular beam epitaxy PA MBE .

Since the penetration depth of the beam is only a few atomic layers the crystalline surface acts as a two dimensional grating that diffracts electrons. The diffraction pattern can be observed on a fluorescent screen located inside the MBE chamber. A film having a smooth surface as illustrated in the SEM photograph of the conventional GaN layer grown at a high Ga flux shown in is expected to have a pattern consisting of a series of streaks perpendicular to the substrate surface as illustrated in while a rough or polycrystalline film as illustrated in the SEM photograph of a GaN layer grown at a low Ga flux as illustrated in would have a spotty pattern as illustrated in .

Extensive work has been performed in this field on the growth of GaN using PA MBE. It is known that two of the most important growth parameters for the deposition of high quality GaN epilayers are the substrate temperature and the group III group V atomic flux ratio. Unlike the deposition of other III V compounds by MBE it is well known that high quality smooth GaN films are deposited under a Ga rich N limited growth regime. This is due to the highly reactive nature of the active nitrogen species generated by the plasma source that results in very short adatom diffusion lengths.

Suitable parameter space for depositing GaN has been reported upon and three distinct growth regimes identified referred to as the N stable intermediate Ga stable and Ga droplets as illustrated in See B. Heying R. Averbeck L. F. Chen E. Haus H. Reichert J. S. Speck Control of surface morphologies using plasma assisted molecular beam epitaxy Journal of Applied Physics 88 1855 2000 . The boundary between the N stable and the intermediate Ga stable regimes constitutes conditions that are nearly stoichiometric where the active nitrogen atom flux equals the Ga atom flux and was determined by examining the dependence of the growth rate of the GaN film on the Ga atom flux.

The growth rate of GaN has been found to be independent of Ga atom flux or Ga atom arrival rate only within the intermediate Ga stable and Ga rich regimes. Heavily Ga rich growth conditions results in the accumulation of liquid Ga metal droplets on the surface of the film. Increasing the substrate temperature during growth has been observed to widen the range of Ga atom fluxes that result in intermediate Ga stable for a given active nitrogen flux.

As illustrated in and as mentioned above GaN film can be grown under three distinct growth regimes i.e. the N stable intermediate Ga stable and Ga droplets. The surface morphology and optical properties of the GaN film have all been observed to depend upon the regime method of growth employed. Heying et al. have reported on the surface morphologies of GaN films deposited within each regime and have observed that films deposited under N stable conditions had morphologies that were rough and heavily pitted while films grown within the intermediate regime had large flat areas between large irregularly shaped pits. In contrast films deposited in the Ga droplet regime had atomically flat surfaces.

The present inventors have investigated the impact of III V flux ratio on the continuous wave photoluminescence observed from GaN films and have found that films grown near stoichiometric conditions i.e. where III V flux ratio 1 had significantly more intense band edge luminescence than films grown at higher III V flux ratio. Similarly the present inventors observed that films deposited near stoichiometric conditions had significantly longer photogenerated carrier lifetimes. These results are believed to be attributable to a high density of deep trap states in films deposited with higher III V flux ratio.

In contrast to GaN comparatively less has been reported on the growth of AlGaN films by PA MBE which are useful in producing UV LED s. The present inventors have discovered that the AlN mole fraction of this ternary alloy AlGaN is dependent upon the ratio of the Al Ga atomic flux the ratio of the total group III group V atomic flux as well as the substrate temperature. It has been previously observed that the AlN mole fraction of AlGaN alloys deposited under constant Al Ga atomic flux ratio increases with increasing III V flux ratio. This has been attributed to the preference for Al to incorporate into the film over Ga due to the greater thermal stability of AlN over GaN. Presently however a growth diagram methodology for production for AlGaN alloys comparable to the one developed for GaN as discussed above has not been reported.

In view of the above it is an object of the present invention to provide an AlGaN composition for use as an active region layer of a UV light emitting device in which the active region layer s composition has localized inhomogeneities therein resulting in carrier localization and enhanced radiative efficiency and a UV light emitting device containing same.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method of manufacturing an AlGaN composition for use as an active region layer of a UV light emitting device in which the active region layer has localized inhomogeneities formed therein resulting in carrier localization and enhanced radiative efficiency and a UV light emitting device containing same as described above.

In order to achieve the objects of the present invention as discussed above the present inventors earnestly endeavored to overcome the difficulties in manufacturing a UV LED composition comprising AlGaN as the active region layer a method of producing such a composition and a device containing same. Accordingly the present inventors have developed a UV LED AlGaN composition active region layer having localized inhomogeneities resulting in carrier localization and enhanced radiative efficiency and a suitable manufacturing method therefor. As such in a first embodiment of the present invention a semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device composition is provided comprising 

a group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy having nanometer scale localized compositionally inhomogeneous regions 

wherein when the alloy is optically or electrically injected or pumped then luminescence occurs due to radiative recombination of carriers in the nanometer scale size inhomogeneous regions having band gap energies less than surrounding material.

In a second embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device composition of the first embodiment is provided wherein the group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy is a layer having a thickness of about 50 nm or greater.

In a third embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device composition of the first embodiment is provided wherein the group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy contains an AlN mole fraction of between about 20 to 80 .

In a fourth embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device composition of the first embodiment above is provided wherein the group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy has a fine scale facetted surface morphology having pits with diameters of about 10 to 100 nm formed therein.

In a fifth embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device composition of the first embodiment above is provided wherein the group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy is doped with an impurity.

In a sixth embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device composition of the fifth embodiment above is provided wherein the impurity is selected from the group consisting of silicon Si magnesium Mg beryllium Be germanium Ge or carbon C .

In a seventh embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device composition of the sixth embodiment above is provided wherein the group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy contains an impurity concentration of from 10to 10atoms cm.

In an eighth embodiment of the present invention a semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device is provided comprising 

an active region layer comprising the composition of the first embodiment above disposed said active layer disposed between the n type semiconductor layer and the p type semiconductor layer.

In a ninth embodiment of the present invention a semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device is provided comprising 

a first Si doped AlGaN current spreading layer grown atop the substrate having a Si concentration of about 5 10atoms cmor more 

a second Si doped AlGaN based group III Nitride active region layer grown atop the first Si doped AlGaN layer having a Si concentration of about 1 10to 1 10atoms cm and

In a tenth embodiment of the present invention a semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device is provided comprising 

a third group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy active region layer disposed atop the second n AlGaN layer containing an AlGaN alloy having nanometer scale localized compositionally inhomogeneous regions therein and

wherein the third group III Nitride active region layer has an AlN mole fraction that is less than an AlN mole fraction of the second n AlGaN band edge layer and fourth p AlGaN band edge layer.

In an eleventh embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device of the tenth embodiment is provided wherein the third group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy is a layer having a thickness of about 5 nm or greater.

In a twelfth embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device of the tenth embodiment is provided wherein the third group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy contains an AlN mole fraction of between about 20 to 80 .

In a thirteenth embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device of the tenth embodiment above is provided wherein the third group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy has a fine scale facetted surface morphology having pits with diameters of about 10 to 100 nm formed therein.

In an fourteenth embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device of the tenth embodiment above is provided wherein the third group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy active region layer comprises a plurality of alternating layers of AlGaN alloy containing different AlN mole fractions and having nanometer scale localized compositionally inhomogeneous regions therein and band edge AlGaN layers.

In a fifteenth embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device of the fourteenth embodiment above is provided wherein the plurality of alternating layers of the third group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy active region layer have thicknesses differing from each other.

In a sixteenth embodiment of the present invention the semiconductor based ultraviolet light emitting device of the tenth embodiment above is provided wherein the substrate is selected from the group consisting of a sapphire substrate a group III V nitride substrate or template on a sapphire substrate a SiC semiconductor substrate a GaAs semiconductor substrate an InP semiconductor substrate a ZnO semiconductor substrate an elemental Si semiconductor substrate an elemental Ge substrate or any other substrate upon which a single crystal III Nitride film may be grown.

In a seventeenth embodiment of the present invention a method of manufacturing an ultraviolet light emitting device having a group III Nitride active region layer containing an AlGaN alloy is provided comprising 

epitaxially depositing under a facetted or three dimensional growth regime a layer of AlGaN on a substrate or a film layer formed adjacent a substrate 

wherein the substrate temperature is maintained within a temperature range of about 770 to 950 C. an Nflow rate of from 0.2 to 1.2 sccm standard cubic centimeters per minute is utilized the layer of AlGaN is grown at a rate of 80 to 1000 nm hour the Al beam equivalent pressure is from about 1 10to 2 10 and the Ga beam equivalent pressure is from about 2 10to 2 10Torr.

In an eighteenth embodiment of the present invention the method of manufacturing of the seventeenth embodiment above is provided wherein the layer of AlGaN is epitaxially deposited at a rate of from 80 to 120 nm hour.

In a nineteenth embodiment of the present invention the method of manufacturing of the seventeenth embodiment above is provided wherein the Nflow rate is from 0.2 to 0.6 sccm standard cubic centimeters per minute .

In a twentieth embodiment of the present invention the method of manufacturing of the seventeenth embodiment above is provided wherein the AlGaN layer is doped with a dopant selected from the group consisting of silicon Si magnesium Mg beryllium Be germanium Ge or carbon C .

In a twenty first embodiment of the present invention the method of manufacturing of the twentieth embodiment above is provided wherein the AlGaN layer is doped with an impurity in a concentration of from about 10to 10atoms cm.

In a twenty second embodiment of the present invention the method of manufacturing of the twenty first embodiment above is provided wherein the AlGaN layer contains an AlN mole fraction of about 33 and is doped with Si.

In a twenty third embodiment of the present invention the method of manufacturing of the sixteenth embodiment above is provided wherein the AlGaN is heteroepitaxially deposited atop an AlN buffer layer employing a Ga flux of from 2 10to 7 10Torr.

The present invention provides a semiconductor based ultraviolet UV light emitting device active region AlGaN composition for inclusion in a UV light emitting device operating at wavelengths of shorter than 360 nm. Further the present invention provides a UV light emitting device comprised of a stack of layers that includes said active region layer wherein light is generated through the radiative recombination of excited electron hole pairs. These pairs can be created in the active region layer by either electrical injection or by an optical electron beam pump. The active region layer is an aluminum gallium nitride AlGaN based layer having localized inhomogeneities

The present inventors further unexpectedly discovered a method of forming the active region layer s composition so as to create these localized inhomogeneities the inclusion of which results in improved wall plug efficiency for the device through enhancement of the radiative recombination efficiency in the active region layer as well as enhanced light emission.

In particular as illustrated in the scanning electron microscopy SEM image of the surface of an AlGaN film according to the present invention of herein the present invention provides UV light emitting device active region layer compositions comprised of aluminum and gallium containing III Nitride alloys that exhibit enhanced photoluminescence PL lifetimes due to compositional fluctuations i.e. localized inhomogeneities therein. As shown in the surface of an AlGaN film produced at a low Ga atom flux of about 3.3 10 as measured by beam equivalent pressure according to the present invention has a fine scale facetted surface morphology having surface pits on the order of about 10 to 100 nm wide.

The compositional fluctuations as illustrated in the room temperature monochromatic cathodoluminescence CL image of the AlGaN active region layer of the present invention of herein are nanometer scale compositionally inhomogeneous regions of AlGaN i.e. areas of the AlGaN composition in which the Al percentage varies that are of smaller band gap energy than the surrounding material and act as radiative recombination centers.

These aluminum and gallium containing III Nitride alloys function as the active region layer in UV light emitting semiconductor layer stacks commonly referred to as ultraviolet light devices. Such devices and methods for manufacturing same by depositing the active region layer alloys under a facetted and or three dimensional growth mode are provided herein.

In contrast conventionally AlGaN films are produced at a very high Ga atom flux of for example about 6.16 10 as measured by beam equivalent pressure which may lead to a surface morphology having large scale facetting evidencing metal droplets as illustrated in . Alternatively as illustrated in the surface of an AlGaN film produced at a high Ga atom flux of about 5.62 10 as measured by beam equivalent pressure may have a smooth surface morphology.

As illustrated in the active region layer of the present invention as described above may be incorporated into a semiconductor UV light emitting diode UVLED of the present invention comprising a substrate an AlN buffer layer deposited atop the substrate and a silicon doped n type AlGaN current spreading layer grown atop the AlN buffer layer . The MN buffer layer is optionally provided and not used when employing a nitride substrate or template. An active region layer comprised of the group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy having nanometer scale localized compositionally inhomogeneous regions therein of the first embodiment herein is epitaxially grown atop the current spreading layer . The active region layer is capped with an AlGaN electron blocking layer and a p type GaN contact layer .

The substrate may be a sapphire substrate a group III V nitride substrate or template on a sapphire substrate a SiC semiconductor substrate a GaAs semiconductor substrate an InP semiconductor substrate a ZnO semiconductor substrate an elemental Si semiconductor substrate an elemental Ge semiconductor substrate or any other substrate upon which a single crystal III Nitride film may be grown. The AlGaN electron blocking layer may or may not be doped p type. An n electrode and a p electrode are provided for connectivity.

The active region layer may as illustrated in and consist of a single group III Nitride active region layer containing an AlGaN alloy having nanometer scale localized compositionally inhomogeneous regions therein. If the active region layer of the semiconductor UV LED is grown as a single AlGaN layer with an aluminum percentage that is substantially the same as the band edge n AlGaN layer beneath it and the band edge p AlGaN layer above it then the semiconductor device is referred to as a homojunction LED structure.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention as illustrated in and the active region layer of the UV LED is a single AlGaN layer grown with an aluminum percentage that is less than the n AlGaN layer below and the p AlGaN layer above. Such a device is referred to as a double heterojunction DH LED structure.

In another preferred embodiment of the present invention as called for in the fourteenth embodiment herein and as illustrated in and the active region layer of the UV light emitting device may consist of multiple layers of band edge AlGaN with alternating AlN mole fractions. For example one period of such a structure would consist of one layer of AlGaN with a higher Al percentage and a wider bandgap and one layer with a lower Al percentage and a smaller bandgap. Both of these layers may contain the nanoscale compositional inhomogeneities described in the first embodiment herein or alternatively only the smaller bandgap material may contain them. Such a device is referred to as a multiple quantum well MQW or superlattice LED structure.

The UV light emitting device of the present invention may be structured to operate as an LD laser diode as shown in or as an LED as shown in using either optical carrier injection or e beam carrier injection. As shown in an LD is designed for injection of electrons or holes through a carrier injection pump . The carrier injection pump may be an optical pump or an e beam pump. A first band edge AlGaN layer which may comprise one or multiple layers is deposited on the substrate and an optional AlN buffer layer if required.

Optionally Al In Ga N could be used in place of AlN for the buffer layer . The active region layer is formed on the band edge AlGaN layer and a second band edge AlGaN layer is formed on the active region layer . The band edge AlGaN layers and have a higher Al content than that of the active region layer matrix to ensure waveguiding of the emitted light. The LD is an edge emitting device as illustrated by the UV laser output .

If the carrier injection pump is an optical pump such that the carrier injection LD and the carrier injection LED are optically injected then the AlGaN active region layer or the surrounding layers band edge AlGaN layer and band edge layer absorb the light from the optical pump generating electron hole pairs. The generated electrons and holes can then recombine in the active region layer to produce light.

The carrier injection pump can also be an e beam source. Using an electron beam source the energetic electrons are injected into the active region layer and or the surrounding layers band edge AlGaN layer and band edge layer and collide with electrons in the atoms with enough energy to cause the electrons to break free from the atoms. This produces electron hole pairs similar to the optical pumping above that can then recombine in the active region layer to produce light.

Two common electrically injected devices are laser diodes LD as shown in and and light emitting diodes LEDs as shown in and . As illustrated in the present invention provides an LD structure formed by sandwiching the active region layer between an n type semiconductor layer and a p type semiconductor layer thus creating a p n junction photodiode. The n type semiconductor layer may contain superlattices to improve current spreading and injection and may contain some layers of a wider bandgap for waveguiding the emission.

The p type semiconductor layer may contain a wider bandgap electron blocking layer and other wider bandgap layers for waveguiding. The p type semiconductor layer may also contain superlattices to improve current spreading and injection. The electrons and holes are injected through the ohmic contacts into the active region layer via the semiconductor layers and creating an electrically injected device.

The LD shown in is formed by optionally depositing an AlN buffer layer on a suitable substrate such as sapphire. An n type semiconductor layer is then deposited upon the AlN buffer layer . An AlGaN active region layer as described above is then deposited on the n type semiconductor layer . A Mg doped p semiconductor layer is formed upon the active region layer . An n electrode formed upon the n type semiconductor layer and a p electrode formed upon the Mg doped p semiconductor layer are deposited for connectivity of the LD to an injection source. The LD shown in is an edge emitting device as illustrated by the UV laser emission therefrom.

The LED shown in is similarly formed by optionally depositing an AlN buffer layer on a suitable substrate . An n type semiconductor layer is then deposited upon the AlN buffer layer . An AlGaN active region layer as described above is deposited upon the n type semiconductor layer . A Mg doped p semiconductor layer of wider bandgap is deposited upon the active region layer as an electron blocking layer. A Mg doped p semiconductor layer is then formed on the Mg doped p semiconductor layer .

An n electrode and a p electrode are provided on the n type semiconductor layer and the Mg doped p semiconductor layer respectively for connectivity of the device to an injection source. In contrast to the LD shown in the LED shown in may be top emitting as illustrated by the light emission and or bottom emitting as illustrated by the light emission .

As discussed above the LD and the LED have similar layer structures with varied thickness depending on whether it is an edge emitting LD or a top emitting and or bottom emitting LED structure. Both LD and LED can be grown with multiple arrangements of the AlGaN active region layer .

For a single AlGaN layer as disclosed earlier when forming an active region layer of a semiconductor device as a single AlGaN layer grown with an aluminum percentage that is substantially the same as the band edge n AlGaN layer beneath it and the band edge p AlGaN layer above it the semiconductor device is referred to as a homojunction LED structure.

The present inventors unexpectedly discovered a regime process for growing ternary AlGaN alloys by PA MBE that results in films thereof having nanometer scale compositional inhomogeneities therein. These localized compositional inhomogeneities as illustrated in herein provide the beneficial effect of promoting radiative recombination generation of light in regions of smaller AlN mole fraction and lower energy over non radiative recombination in the larger AlN mole fraction matrix.

In particular the present invention provides methods for producing UV light emitting devices containing the AlGaN alloy composition described above as the active region layer. Such methods of producing these devices in general may involve when using a sapphire substrate deposition of a plurality of films sequentially on the substrate using a process comprising nitridation high temperature AlN buffer deposition prior to the epilayer growth of the AlGaN active region and band edge layers. In particular PA MBE may be used.

The active region and band edge layers may be deposited in various orders. Importantly the method of the present invention allows creation of localized inhomogeneities in the AlGaN active region layer that contain nanometer scale areas having larger or smaller AlN mole fraction than the entire composition on average by the growth of the film under a facetted or three dimensional growth mode. This growth mode is achieved while growing under conditions where the growth rate of the film is determined by the arrival rate of active nitrogen N limited .

Further this growth mode is achieved by growing under nearly stoichiometric conditions where the ratio of the arrival rate of group III atoms Al Ga and the arrival rate of active nitrogen is about unity. Moreover the nanometer scale compositional inhomogeneities are self assembled within the film as a result of the growth mode. The present process method that results in the growth mode for producing a film comprised of an AlGaN alloy utilizable as an active region layer of a UV light emitting device is defined by the following process factors 

The present inventors have investigated a large range of substrate temperatures and have discovered that the optimum substrate temperature range for formation of nanoscale compositional inhomogeneities in AlGaN NCI AlGaN in films deposited by the method of the present invention is between 770 to 950 C. as measured by the substrate thermocouple. Preferably a substrate temperature of about 880 to 900 C. is maintained.

Films deposited by the process method of the present invention are grown under N limited conditions wherein the growth rate of the AlGaN film is dependent upon the arrival rate of active nitrogen on the substrate. The arrival rate of nitrogen in the present method is dependent upon the RF plasma power and the flow rate of Ngas employed.

The present inventors have deposited NCI AlGaN at a growth rate of as high as 220 nm hr which corresponds in their reactor to a RF plasma power of about 300 W and a Ngas flow rate of about 0.6 sccm standard cubic centimeters per minute . This is equivalent to an effective nitrogen flux of 0.09 to 0.238 monolayers sec. However NCI AlGaN may be deposited at a growth rate of about 1000 nm hr using an RF plasma source.

The amount of total group III flux for a given effective nitrogen flux is the most important growth parameter in promoting the formation of nanoscale compositional inhomogeneities in the AlGaN alloys of the present invention. In the present invention the total Al flux for a given effective nitrogen flux to promote the formation of nanoscale compositional inhomogeneities in the AlGaN alloys is from 1 10to 2 10Torr as measured by beam equivalent pressure. The total Ga flux as measured by beam equivalent pressure is from 2 10to 2 10Torr. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the Al atom flux as measured by beam equivalent pressure employed is from 1 10to 4 10Torr and the Ga atom flux as measured by beam equivalent pressure is from 2 10to 7 10Torr.

As illustrated in the photoluminescence observed for the AlGaN alloys deposited at the Ga atom fluxes greater than about 5.6 10Torr as measured by beam equivalent pressure is dominated by near band edge emission which is typical of what is generally observed for these alloys and which we refer to as band edge AlGaN . The surface morphology of these films is smooth with the film deposited at the highest BEP beam equivalent pressure shown at the top of showing evidence of metal droplet formation.

In contrast the photoluminescence peak of the AlGaN alloy film deposited with the lowest Ga atom flux as measured by beam equivalent pressure of about 3.34 10Torr is at a significantly lower energy than the band gap of the film as great as 400 meV and displays a luminescence significant intensity enhancement 1000 as shown in . The surface of such AlGaN alloy film as illustrated at the bottom of is characterized by a facetted morphology consisting of small pits having diameters of smaller than about 60 nm. The present inventors have grown such NCI AlGaN alloys utilizing a Ga atom flux of between 2.00 10and 7 10Torr as measured by beam equivalent pressure .

The AlN mole fraction of the NCI AlGaN alloy and therefore the average AlN mole fraction of the film can be varied by changing the Al atom flux employed during growth. illustrates the emission wavelength and corresponding band gap energy for such NCI AlGaN alloys of the present invention having AlN mole fractions of from 27 to 60 as a function of Al atom flux as measured by Al BEP . The Ga atom flux must also be appropriately adjusted so that approximately stoichiometric growth conditions are obtained insuring an optimal result. An energy shift greater than 250 meV and corresponding enhanced luminescence efficiency has been observed throughout this compositional range.

NCI nanoscale compositionally inhomogeneous AlGaN alloys i.e. a group III Nitride containing AlGaN alloy having nanometer scale localized compositionally inhomogeneous regions therein having an AlN mole fraction of between about 20 to 80 can be obtained using the present method. Varying the composition of the matrix of the AlGaN alloy during the deposition process described above allows tuning of the wavelength of the luminescence emission of the device as desired as shown in . The inventors have demonstrated tunability within the wavelength region of from 255 to 340 nm. All of the AlGaN active region layer alloys grown using the present method exhibit enhanced luminescence efficiency through carrier localization without the use of indium.

The present inventors investigated the doping of NCI AlGaN with silicon Si to determine the effect thereof. As illustrated in at Si concentrations of up to 10atoms cm relative integrated photoluminescence intensity is increased by doping of the AlGaN layer with silicon. In particular it was unexpectedly discovered that greater enhancement of the photoluminescence can be obtained by doping with Si with an impurity concentration of about 2 10atoms cmhaving been found preferable for an alloy containing 33 AlN by mole fraction.

The AlGaN alloy thin films of the present invention are preferably deposited by plasma assisted molecular beam epitaxy PA MBE using for example a VARIAN GenII MBE reactor. This reactor has three zones commonly referred to as the entry chamber the preparation chamber and the growth chamber all being maintained at ultra high vacuum 

In the film deposition processes of the present method flow rates and RF plasma powers are adjusted to achieve the conditions of the present method as set forth above. For example a flow rate of about 0.25 sccm and a RF plasma power of about 250 W may be employed. High purity elemental source materials for Ga Al and Si 99.9999 or better as well as high purity Ngas 99.9995 are preferably utilized in the process of the present invention so as to reduce the incorporation of undesirable impurities.

A DH double heterostructure UV LED was fabricated according to the present method using PA MBE as described above. In particular a n type AlGaN current spreading layer having an AlN mole fraction of about 40 and a thickness of approximately 50 nm was deposited upon an AlGaN template. This n type AlGaN current spreading layer was deposited under nitrogen limited conditions at a growth rate of about 220 nm hr using nitrogren plasma conditions of about 300 W rf power and about 0.6 sccm Ngas flow rate. The substrate temperature employed was about 891 C. and the Al and Ga atom flux as measured by BEP were approximately 5.14 10and 2.07 10Torr respectively. The layer was intentionally doped n type by incorporating about 1 10atoms cmof silicon into the film by employing a Si effusion cell temperature of 1220 C.

Subsequently an active region layer was deposited on top of the n type AlGaN current spreading layer under nearly stoichiometeric and nitrogen limited conditions so as to encourage the formation of a facetted surface morphology of the active region layer during growth as called for by the present invention. The active region layer consists of an AlGaN alloy having nanometer scale compositional inhomogenieites and having an average AlN mole fraction of about 33 . In particular a growth rate of about 80 nm hr was employed using nitrogren plasma conditions of about 250 W rf power and about 0.25 sccm Ngas flow rate. The substrate temperature employed was about 899.7 C. and the Al and Ga atom flux as measured by beam equivalent pressure were approximately 1.87 10and 4.24 10Torr respectively. The layer was intentionally doped n type by incorporating about 2 10atoms cmof silicon into the film by employing a Si effusion cell temperature of 1100 C. Thereafter the heterostructure wafer was then cooled to 20 C. at a rate of about 3 C. min and subsequently removed from reactor. Next the active region layer was examined by photoluminescence studies prior to the wafer being sent to a commercial partner for the deposition of a p type AlGaN blocking layer having an AlN mole fraction about 40 and a p GaN layer using proprietary processes to complete the DH UVLED structure as described in the tenth embodiment of the present invention.

DH UV LED s designed for electrical injection were fabricated utilizing this material by our commercial partner using proprietary processes. Devices having areas of 100 100 and 200 200 mwere fabricated and their measured electroluminescence spectra are shown in . These devices were observed to have a peak emission wavelength of about 326 nm which is consistent with the photoluminescence measurements performed prior to completion of the DH UVLED structure and is evidence that the electroluminescence originates from the NCI active region layer of the present invention.

Standard electroluminescence intensity vs. DC drive current measurements were performed on these devices and their results are shown in . It was observed that the smaller device having an area of 100 100 m had an optical power output of 0.45 mW at 80 mA DC drive current. It should be noted that the data was measured by examining an unpackaged chip and thus the power output may be understated.

A DH double heterostructure UV LED was fabricated according to the present method using PA MBE and utilizing a sapphire substrate as described above. First the substrate was nitridated by heating to a temperature 831.6 C. and then the surface of the substrate was exposed to the nitrogen plasma source for 10 mins. The plasma source conditions for this step were 300 W rf power and 0.6 sccm. Thereafter an AlN buffer layer with an approximate thickness of 25 nm was deposited atop the nitridated substrate utilizing an Al atom flux as measured by BEP of about 5.02 10Torr and a growth rate of 220 nm hr. The substrate temperature and nitrogen plasma conditions for this step were identical to that of the nitridation step.

Subsequently a n type AlGaN current spreading layer having an AlN mole fraction of about 40 and thickness of about 1800 nm was deposited under nitrogen limited conditions using a substrate temperature growth rate and plasma source condition identical to the AlN buffer layer step. The Al and Ga atom flux as measured by BEP employed during this step were approximately 1.87 10and 4.24 10Torr respectively. The layer was intentionally doped n type by incorporating about 1 10atoms cmof silicon into the film by employing a Si effusion cell temperature of 1220 C.

Subsequently an active region was deposited under nearly stoichiometric and nitrogen limited conditions so as to encourage a facetted surface morphology during growth as called for by the present invention. The active region layer consisted of an AlGaN alloy having nanometer scale compositional inhomogeneities and having an average AlN mole fraction of about 33 . This active region layer was approximately 50 nm thick and deposited at a growth rate of about 80 nm hr.

The nitrogen plasma conditions employed consisted of a 250 W rf power and about 0.25 sccm Ngas flow rate. The substrate temperature employed was about 876.1 C. and the Al and Ga atom flux as measured by BEP were approximately 1.89 10and 6.17 10Torr respectively. The active region layer was intentionally doped n type by incorporating about 2 10atoms cmof silicon into the film by employing a Si effusion cell temperature of 1100 C.

As a next step an electron blocking layer consisting of 10 nm of AlGaN and having an AlN mole fraction of about 40 was deposited under identical conditions to that of the n type AlGaN current spreading layer with one notable exception. The electron blocking layer was doped with magnesium instead of silicon using a Mg atom flux as measured by BEP of 6.82 10Torr. Finally a 220 nm thick p type GaN layer was deposited under nitrogen limited conditions at a substrate temperature of 831.6 C. a Ga atom flux as measured by BEP of 6.75 10Torr and a Mg atom flux as measured by BEP of 6.82 10Torr. The growth rate and plasma source conditions employed were identical to those used for the deposition of the n AlGaN current spreading layer. The DH UVLED structure was then cooled to 20 C. at a rate of about 3 C. min.

The DH UV LEDs designed for electrical injection were fabricated by the inventors having an area of 1 1 mm. The measured electroluminescence from the fabricated devices was observed to peak at 325 nm as shown in . Standard electroluminescence intensity vs. DC drive current measurements were performed on these devices and their results are shown in . It was observed that these devices had an optical power output of 25 W at 60 mA DC drive current. It should be noted that the data was measured by examining an unpackaged chip and thus the power output may be understated.

It was found that the PL lifetime in the AlGaN MQW on the thin GaN template is about 100 ps while for the AlGaN MQW on the thick GaN substrate the PL lifetime increases to about 500 ps see G. A. Garrett C. J. Collins A. V. Sampath H. Shen M. Wraback S. F. LeBoeuf J. Flynn and G. Brandes . Vol. 2 No. 7 pp. 2332 2336 2005 incorporated by reference in its entirety herein . clearly shows that the NCI AlGaN active region layer of the present invention on sapphire has a much longer PL lifetime about 400 ps than its conventional AlGaN MQW counterpart on the thin GaN template despite having about two orders of magnitude higher defect density.

The deposition of high quality III Nitride materials by the PA MBE process requires proper preparation of the substrate surface immediately prior to growth to remove contamination that would otherwise degrade the quality of the epitaxial layer. These preparation techniques consist of both in situ within the MBE reactor and ex situ outside the MBE reactor steps meant to condition the surface of the substrate. A 2 inch diameter single side polished substrate was prepared ex situ by first evaporating an approximately 2 micron thick titanium film on the back side of the substrate by sputter deposition. Subsequently this titanium film was capped with an approximately 1 micron thick silicon dioxide film deposited by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD . The 2 inch diameter substrate was then cut into 4 similar size pieces using a dicing saw equipped with a diamond blade.

These 4 smaller sized substrates were chemically prepared by solvent degreasing in acetone methanol and finally 2 propanol for about 20 minutes each. Next the substrates were rinsed with deionized water DI HO and then immersed in a boiling 3 1 hydrochloric acid to nitric acid solution for about 10 minutes. The protective PECVD deposited oxide cap previously formed on the titanium cap was then removed by immersing each substrate in 6 1 buffer oxide etchant. The substrates were then rinsed again in DI HO for 30 minutes prior to mounting on a substrate holder. The samples were mounted into standard 3 inch VARIAN molybdenum blocks using an Applied EPI uni block sample holder system that allows for radiatively heating the substrates.

The substrate samples were then prepared in situ in a process comprising annealing the substrates in the entry chamber of the reactor at 300 C. overnight and then further annealing the substrate samples in the preparation chamber of the reactor at 600 C. for 6 hours before the active region layer deposition process began. For substrates consisting of a III Nitride film or a III Nitride film deposited upon a substrate also referred to as a III Nitride template an additional step is performed inside the growth chamber of the reactor than consists of annealing the substrate at a temperature between 700 900 C. for about 1.5 hours while periodically exposing the surface to a Ga atom flux for about 2 minutes over a 12 minute period so as to cover the substrate surface with metal.

Room temperature photoluminescence PL measurements of devices according to the present invention were performed using a continuous wave 244 nm Ar laser with an excitation power of between 0.4 to 20 mW. Low temperature PL measurements were performed at a temperature of between 10 K and 300 K by placing samples of the devices of the present invention in a He compressor cooled cryostat. The band gap energy of the films was determined by simulation of reflectivity spectra data obtained by measuring same between 200 and 600 nm using a Perkin Elmer Lambda 16 UV VIS NIR spectrometer and were confirmed by photoreflectance measurements.

The luminescence lifetime of the films was measured by time resolved photoluminescence TRPL measurements taken of the samples for varying fluences laser pump intensities using sub picosecond luminescence downconversion. The surface morphology of the films was investigated by scanning electron microscopy SEM using a field emission microscope and cathodoluminescence CL .

The process of the present invention as described above was utilized for depositing AlGaN alloy thin films of the present invention directly on sapphire substrates to produce UV LEDs according to the present invention and subsequent measurements of said devices were made as discussed above. For example illustrates a comparison of room temperature photoluminescent PL data to reflectivity results for three different representative layers of such AlGaN thin films i.e. AlGaN AlGaN and AlGaN respectively deposited using AlN buffer layers on sapphire substrates. The dashed vertical lines represent the approximate band edge as determined by reflectivity and confirmed by photoreflectance measurements.

As clearly illustrated in the PL peaks of the three AlGaN thin films according to the present invention are significantly red shifted with respect to the band edge. For these three epitaxial layers with aluminum percentages of 29 33 and 45 respectively the red shifts in PL from band edge are 280 meV 290 meV and 400 meV respectively. illustrates that for bandgaps of the matrix material covering 4.1 eV to 4.8 eV through variation of the Al percentage the red shift remains 300 to 400 meV. shows that the PL intensities of these AlGaN active region layers are orders of magnitude brighter than for films with similar defect densities and only band edge emission.

In particular to further investigate this red shift effect PL spectra were taken from 10 K to 292 K on the AlGaN sample shown in and the results thereof shown in . As illustrated therein at low temperature i.e. 10 K there are two distinct PL peaks. The red shifted RS peak 3.82 eV 324.5 nm shows very bright emission at 10 K that decreases by about a factor of seven as the temperature is increased from 10 to 292 K. The second smaller peak 4.11 eV 301.5 nm associated with band edge BE emission is seen at low temperature but as illustrated its intensity rapidly decreased by greater than three orders of magnitude from 10 K to 292 K.

Room temperature monochromatic CL images as shown in of the AlGaN film shown in acquired at the RS peak 3.82 eV 324.5 nm indicate that luminescence of the AlGaN film according to the present invention is spatially nonuniform 2.56 2.56 m with feature sizes as small as 100 nm in extent. This image is however limited in its resolution to the diffusion length of the excited carriers at room temperature which implies that the actual size of these compositional inhomogeneities may be much smaller. This clearly indicates the presence of localized inhomogeneities i.e. regions of the AlGaN film in which the AL is not uniformly incorporated therein. The BE peak has almost no measurable CL signal at room temperature.

The spatial inhomogeneity of the RS CL emission as illustrated in and the comparison of the temperature dependence of the band edge BE and RS PL peaks as shown in suggest both the transport of thermally activated photogenerated carriers from the wider band gap AlGaN matrix into localized states characterized by the longer wavelength emission as well as the suppression of nonradiative processes in these localized states.

Further evidence of this phenomenon can be seen from investigation of the differences in the two PL peaks shown in using room temperature time resolved PL TRPL measurements. illustrate the time evolution of the PL intensity measured at the BE peak and the RS peak as a function of fluence for a 290 nm fs laser pulse. As illustrated in TRPL data for the BE peak shows a prompt response at t 0 and an intensity dependent decay that saturates at higher pump intensity. These decays are characterized by half lives of from 5 to 30 ps for increasing pump intensities.

TRPL data for the RS peak however shows intensity dependent initial rise times with emission peaks at 44 40 31 and 21 ps for increasing pump fluence as shown in . Moreover the semilog plot illustrated in shows that the RS peak data possesses nearly intensity independent decays that can be characterized by a fast 245 ps and a slow 590 ps component giving a weighted average of 375 ps.

The slower decay of the BE PL at increased pump fluence as shown in shows that carriers are quickly trapped in shallow localized states of the AlGaN active region layer that are saturable at high carrier densities See M. Wraback F. Semendy H. Shen U. Chowdhury D. J. K. Lambert M. M. Wong and R. D. Dupuis 188 807 2001 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Further the overall fast 

In contrast localized states of conventional alloys are characterized by bandtails with 20 to 60 meV width for this Al concentration as well as a large density of deep defect states. Although long lifetimes in bandtail states for conventional AlGaN alloys have been reported at temperatures low enough to effect freeze out of most nonradiative processes at room temperature the carriers localized in the bandtails of such conventional AlGaN alloys subsequently nonradiatively recombine through or are trapped in deep states associated with point or structural defects such that the PL decays have little or no spectral dependence.

In contrast shows the room temperature TRPL at the RS peak of the AlGaN alloy of the present invention having localized Al inhomogeneities present therein to be 290 meV below the band gap which is strikingly different from its conventional BE counterpart. Since the reflectance data indicates no substantial absorption below the band edge in the AlGaN active region layer of the present invention such that the pump pulse creates carriers primarily in the wider band gap AlGaN matrix the slow rise time corresponds to the transfer of carriers from the surrounding matrix to localized states that participate more readily in radiative than in nonradiative processes through a combination of trap saturation and localization away from bulk defects due to carrier concentration in the nanoscale compositional inhomogeneities. The long PL lifetimes of the RS peak shown in which are comparable to those observed in conventional materials with up to three orders of magnitude higher dislocation densities provide further evidence of enhanced radiative efficiency associated with these nanoscale compositional inhomogeneities.

As the carrier density increases saturation of the localized states causes the transient PL signal at the RS peak to achieve its maximum at earlier times while the BE TRPL decays become slower due to the filling of both these localized states and the more conventional bandtail states in the wider band gap AlGaN matrix. A concomitant blue shift of the time integrated PL at the RS peak with increasing pump intensity is also observed.

The present inventors unexpectedly discovered that a further enhancement of radiative efficiency is attained when using the UV LED of the present invention through reduction of dislocation and point defect densities in both the higher Al content matrix and the localized regions of the material. In particular the present inventors produced and tested a double heterojunction DH LED structure deposited by MBE on a 1.8 m thick AlGaN template grown by HVPE on sapphire.

This template has a dislocation density estimated in the mid 10cmrange. A 1 m AlGaN Si n 5 10cm current spreading layer was grown nearly lattice matched atop the AlGaN template under conditions that inhibit localization. The active region layer consisted of a lightly doped 100 nm AlGaN Si n 1 10cm layer exhibiting localization. The structure was capped with a 10 nm AlGaN electron blocking layer. The p type current spreading layers were omitted for the optical studies.

As illustrated in the variable temperature PL for the above sample UV LED of the present invention was measured versus photon energy. The intensity of the PL from the localized states in the active region layer was found to only drop by a factor of 3.3 when the temperature was raised from 12 K to room temperature. This finding indicates significantly enhanced radiative efficiency of the UV LED of the present invention versus conventional devices up to 30 internal quantum efficiency due to a combination of the NCI active region layer and reduction of defects in the sample device relative to structures grown on sapphire. This result is also reflected in the observation that the continuous wave CW PL from the above described DH LED structure is 3 to 4 times brighter at room temperature than that from the samples on sapphire. necessary to illustrate the invention.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes embodiments of the invention by way of example. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from this discussion and from the accompanying drawings and claims that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims and equivalents thereof.

