---

title: Reconfigurable electronic circuit
abstract: An apparatus and method provides the foundation for designing reconfigurable electronic computing systems. The invention relies on an ability to change the resistance state of a memristor device to achieve an optimal voltage at specific circuit nodes, whereby this dynamically and autonomously causes the circuit to reconfigure itself and produce a different output for the same input relative to the circuit's initial state. The circuit's state remains constant until the memristor's resistance is changed, at which point the circuit's function is “reprogrammed”.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07902857&OS=07902857&RS=07902857
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07902857
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100408
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates generally to the field of electronic circuit design. More specifically this invention relates to electronic circuits which have a reprogrammable function.

Current conventional digital computing architectures rely solely on the field effect transistor FET which is a four terminal device drain gate source and body . However during operation for storing or retrieving information the FET device needs to be powered continuously. In addition high charge leakage issues in the device require continuous refreshing of the processed information during standby and operation. This continuous need for power creates limitations on the system s power consumption and form factor scale.

One potential solution for computing architectures that eliminates the need for constant refreshing may lie within the realm of non volatile passive devices. One such device is the memristor a non volatile passive electronic device which only consumes power during operation and reconfiguration. To the extent only that memristors are not available is the reason why passive reconfigurable electronics are not available today. The fact that the memristor is a nonvolatile memory device could eventually mean that any standby power utilization of computing systems will be minimized or altogether eliminated.

The memristor device postulated in 1971 by Leon Chua 1 as the fourth basic circuit element has received much attention in the research community since the publication of Strukov s 2008 paper titled The missing memristor found 5 . The memristor name is a contraction for memory resistor 1 because that is exactly its function to remember its history 3 . The memristor is a two terminal passive device whose resistance state depends on its previous state and present electrical biasing conditions and combined with transistors in a hybrid chip memristors could radically improve the performance of digital circuits without the necessity to shrink transistors 3 . Given their two terminal structural simplicity and electronic passivity the applications for memristor technology range from non volatile memory instant on computers reconfigurable electronics and neuromorphic computing 4 3 . According to Chua 4 the memristor behaves like a linear resistor with memory.

What is lacking in the prior art however is the method and or means by which passive memory devices such as memristors can be adapted to computing circuits so as to render the latter reconfigurable and eliminate the need for standby power consumption to maintain the reconfigured state.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus that permits extremely low power consumption computing architectures by eliminating the need for refreshing the state of a computer processor or memory.

It is another object of the present invention then to provide a method and apparatus that provides for electronic circuitry having both a reconfigurable and non volatile state.

Briefly stated the present invention provides an apparatus and method as a fundamental building block for the designing of reconfigurable electronic computing systems. The invention relies on an ability to change the resistance state of a memristor device to achieve an optimal voltage at specific circuit nodes whereby this dynamically and autonomously causes the circuit to reconfigure itself and produce a different output for the same input relative to the circuit s initial state. The circuit s state remains constant until the memristor s resistance is changed at which point the circuit s function is reprogrammed .

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

The present invention provides an apparatus and method for reprogrammable electronic circuit. The present invention employs a memristor based approach within an innovative CMOS circuit biasing architecture to achieve autonomous electronic reconfigurability or reprogramming ability from a determined desired output and input signals. Simulation results performed on a hybrid CMOS and memristor device circuit demonstrate that a hardware realization of such electronic reconfigurable or reprogrammable system employing chalcogenide based memristors and existing CMOS technologies is possible. The present invention represents the primitive building block for high density small form factor and ultra low power computing architectures.

The present invention leverages recent technological advances and discoveries namely the nonvolatile memory resistor device or memristor for short 1 and recent inventions in memristor modeling methodology 2 6 .

An important challenge in working with memristor devices is the modeling of the time domain hysteresis electronic behavior. Thus no large scale or accurate circuit simulations can be performed since behavioral models do not exist. However a recently developed invention provides a compact model and method for modeling and simulating memristor devices 2 6 . The compact model developed models the electronic time and voltage domain characteristic behavior of chalcogenide based memristor devices. This model the first of its kind enables the accurate modeling and simulation of memristor based reprogrammable electronic circuits. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention incorporates by reference the disclosure of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 657 262 entitled Method and Apparatus for Modeling Memristor Devices by Robinson Pino et al filed Jan. 6 2010.

Referring to depicts the reconfigurable electronic circuit schematic of the present invention. From the circuit schematic Q and Q represent thresholding gates nFET transistors whose output is directly proportional to the voltage applied to the gate node respectively. During our simulation we assume the threshold voltage of Q and Q are 100 mV. The resistors R and R are biasing resistors to obtain the appropriate voltage biasing conditions to control the signal strength at the gate node n of transistor Q . Thus the voltage at node n is given by

Referring to displays the simulation results and reconfigurability properties of our reconfigurable circuit. To simulate the operation of the circuit we employed the compact model for chalcogenide based memristor described elsewhere 2 . the top pattern corresponds to the input voltage at node D and corresponds to the output pattern of the reconfigurable circuit at node O . During this particular simulation results nodes A and E were set to high 1V . From the results we can observe how the circuit s output node O follows the desired training input D . The figure also shows that during the transition points from high to low and low to high outputs the circuit oscillates until autonomous reconfigurability of the memristor M is achieved to obtain the appropriate voltage at node n to cause the output of Q to be either high Vc or low 0V .

Referring to describes in detail the electronic reconfigurable circuit transition points from high to low output and and low to high output and transitions. and show the voltage transition oscillations and show the change in the memristor M resistance change overtime and and show the voltage oscillations at node n and the Vp reconfiguring pulse enveloping the oscillating n node voltage. In addition the results and show how the memristor device M resistance state changes during reconfiguration along with the memristor effective reconfiguring or biasing voltage Vp in and until the appropriate value is autonomously obtained by the reconfigurable circuit. Once the circuit output O matches the desired input value D the output of the XOR logic gate will be zero and the path of the training pulse Vp will be blocked meaning transistor Q will be in the off state stopping the reconfiguration process.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

