---

title: Deployable space boom using bi-stable tape spring mechanism
abstract: A spacecraft deployment mechanism employing a pair of bi-stable tape springs attached to a cylinder such that rotation of the cylinder extends or retracts the tape springs in opposite directions. The tape springs are fabricated such that they are stable when wrapped around a cylinder (stowed configuration) or when deployed and have a higher energy state when stowed than when deployed. A plurality of bi-stable tape spring mechanisms may be combined to create a deployment device that does not impart rotational torques to the spacecraft during deployment. Deployment may be accomplished by release of the stored energy in the coiled or packaged state progressing to the lower energy deployed state. Alternatively, a motor may be employed to rotate the cylinders for deploy or retrace the tape springs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08770522&OS=08770522&RS=08770522
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08770522
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101201
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph I a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

During launch satellites are subjected to acceleration loads many times the acceleration due to gravity. This acceleration creates large loads on any spacecraft components not uniformly supported by the launch vehicle. To mitigate these loads and to better allow systems to fit within launch vehicle fairings deployable structures are used to allow the compact packaging of otherwise large spacecraft components. For example spacecraft solar arrays are often made deployable so that during launch they are well supported near the system bus. After launch the array panels are deployed to lengths spanning many times the original bus dimensions. Additional applications of deployable structures in space are gravity gradient booms instrument booms and various antennas for communications and radar missions.

The Storable Tubular Extendible Mast STEM Herzl NASA SP 8065 1 is an example of a deployable structure. This structure uses a complex reel mechanism canister to store a highly stressed metal ribbon that once deployed overlaps itself and forms a tube. Several variations of the STEM are commercially available from Northrop Grumman Astro Aerospace . In a typical embodiment of STEM architectures the tubes deploy from a canister that is fixed to the spacecraft. In U.S. Pat. No. 4 018 397 several tubes deploy from a single canister. The current invention improves upon these by configuring the booms in a new way such that the deployment control mechanism and canister are greatly simplified.

A deployable elastic boom comprised of multiple tape spring elements is disclosed. When the tapes springs are fabricated in bi stable configurations either due to pre stress or material orthotropy only a guide mechanism is required to ensure the linear kinematics of deployment. The tape spring boom can be deployed either freely without rate control or with rate control devices.

A tape spring is a thin elastic shell in the form of a portion of a cylindrical surface with an arbitrary length radius and cross sectional angle that can be flattened at one end and rolled up. A steel tape measure is an example in which the cross sectional angle is normally 50 to 70 degrees. The rolled up or packaged state of a steel tape measure typically contains a significant amount of bending strain energy. It is not in equilibrium and requires the application of external forces and a containment mechanism to prevent unrolling.

In the present invention a key feature of the tape springs is that they are bi stable. This means that the tape springs are stable in either the fully rolled packaged or stowed state or fully unrolled deployed configurations. Intermediate configurations tend to smoothly reconfigure towards the lowest energy state configuration through a rolling motion. The release of energy during this progression from a higher energy state to a lower energy state powers the deployment. In this invention the tape springs are fabricated such that the deployed configuration is in a lower energy state than the stowed configuration.

Bi stability in tape spring has been achieved using two approaches. In the first approach internal stresses are used to achieve bi stability. This approach can be used with isotropic materials and is employed by the toy commonly known as a slap bracelet. The structural mechanics of this approach are explained in E. Kebadze S. Guest and S. Pellegrino Bistable prestressed shell structures International Journal of Solids and Structures 41 2004 2801 2820. A steel slap bracelet has two stable configurations. The extended state represents a stable high energy state. If any cross section of the extended tape spring is flattened it jumps to a coiled configuration the second stable configuration.

Pre stress can also be used with orthotropic laminated composite materials to achieve bi stability as explained in T. Murphey and S. Pellegrino A Novel Actuated Composite Tape Spring for Deployable Structures Proceedings of the 45AIAA ASME ASCE AHS ASC Structures Dynamics and Materials Conference April 2004 AIAA 1528 2004. Here a fiber reinforced plastic composite neutrally stable tape spring is constructed from a cross ply laminate where each lamina individually has a curvature pre stress. The two curved lamina with perpendicular curvature axes and opposing curvature senses are bonded together in a flat configuration. The resulting tape spring is stable when fully rolled or completely unrolled and is neutrally stable in transition configurations.

Bi stability can also be achieved simply through material orthotropy. This approach is disclosed in Extendible Member Andrew Daton Lovett U.S. Pat. No. 6 217 975 hereby incorporated by reference. The tape spring in this approach is comprised of a layer having a bias towards the deployed state attached to a layer having longitudinally extending fibers which give the second layer a bias toward the coiled state thereby providing bi stability.

