---

title: System for control of a prosthetic device
abstract: A system for control of a prosthetic device includes at least one Inertial Measurement Unit detecting orientation of a user's foot. The at least one Inertial Measurement Unit is in communication with a device module configured to command at least one actuator of a prosthetic device. The at least one Inertial Measurement unit sends output signals related to orientation of the user's foot to the device module and the device module controls the at least one actuator of the prosthetic device based on the signals from the at least one Inertial Measurement Unit. The device module controls movement of an endpoint of the device within a movement envelope. The device module commanding movement of the end point within the movement envelope through at least simultaneous and/or independent actuation of the plurality of actuators based on the at least one body input signal in accordance with a movement function to achieve the desired directional movement of the endpoint within the movement envelope.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08864845&OS=08864845&RS=08864845
owner: DEKA Limited Partnership
number: 08864845
owner_city: Manchester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100216
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 116 filed Feb. 6 2008 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 899 834 filed Feb. 6 2007 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 963 638 filed Aug. 6 2007 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 168 832 filed Apr. 13 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 221 858 filed Jun. 30 2009 each of which is also hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number W911NF 09 C 0035 awarded by the U.S. Army RDECOM ACQ CTR. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to control of a prosthetic device and more particularly to an apparatus and method for control of a prosthetic device.

Many remote controls have been designed to manipulate robotic devices mechanical devices and virtual devices. There is a desire for a control system that may process user signals quickly and accurately while providing smooth directional and proportional control of associated objects.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a prosthetic device control system is disclosed. The control apparatus includes at least one sensor module adapted to receive a body input signal and at least one device module in communication with the sensor module. The device module commands the prosthetic device in accordance with the at least one body input signal.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention the at least one device module includes at least one prosthetic control mode and commands the prosthetic device in accordance with the at least one prosthetic control mode. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the sensor module includes a sensor central processing unit CPU for processing the body input signals and a sensor communicator for wirelessly transmitting the body input signals to the device module.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention the at least one sensor module includes an inertial measurement unit. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the inertial measurement unit includes at least one accelerometer. In accordance with yet a further aspect of the present invention the at least one accelerometer may detect accelerations in three perpendicular axes. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the inertial measurement unit includes at least two accelerometers and at least one gyroscope.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the device module detects user walking based at least on the body input signals. In accordance with a further aspect of the invention the device module stops commanding the prosthetic device when user walking is detected.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the control system includes a plurality of control modes including a bulk mode for controlling movement of an end point of the prosthetic device and a finesse mode for controlling movement of a prosthetic hand. In a further aspect of the invention the finesse mode includes a plurality of grips for controlling movement of the prosthetic hand.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the device module commands the at least one prosthetic device in accordance with an orientation change. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the device module commands the at least one prosthetic device in accordance with a determined rate of orientation change.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method for evaluating usage of a prosthetic device includes receiving at least one feedback signal from the prosthetic device identifying a category for the at least one feedback signal and recording the total duration that the at least one feedback signal is in each category.

These aspects of the invention are not meant to be exclusive and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when read in conjunction with the appended claims and accompanying drawings.

Referring to a schematic view of a control apparatus for a prosthetic device is shown. The prosthetic device includes a plurality of actuators that control movement of the prosthetic device and one or more feedback sensors for detecting the status of the prosthetic device and or support not shown for the prosthetic device . The control apparatus comprises a sensor module for detecting body input and a device module for commanding the prosthetic device . The control apparatus may be used to control a variety of prosthetic devices such as those disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 141 filed Feb. 6 2008 and the U.S. Patent Application entitled ARM PROSTHETIC DEVICE filed on the same day as the present application and assigned to the same assignee each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The sensor module includes one or more sensors connected to a sensor central processing unit sensor CPU that is connected to a sensor module communicator . The one or more sensors may be disposed at various locations on a user to sense the body input from the user. For example the sensor may be located to provide pressure information supplied by a foot of the user. Similarly sensors may be positioned to measure body input from other body parts of the user such as a head an upper torso a waist or a shoulder . In various embodiments sensors may measure but are not limited to one or more of the following orientation pressure force rate or acceleration. Alternatively in some embodiments the sensors may be EMG electrodes. In some embodiments EMG electrode signals may be used in various controls for example but not limited to turn on shoulder control grip change control or movement control. The sensor CPU inputs data from the one or more sensors and filters and or converts the data to generate user input signals. The user input signals are then sent to the device module by the sensor module communicator . The sensor module communicator may be hard wired to the device module or may transmit the user input signals wirelessly for example but not limited to through a radio transmitter Bluetooth or the like.

In some embodiments the device module includes a device CPU connected to a prosthetic controller . The device CPU receives the user input signals from the sensor module communicator and prosthetic device status signals from the feedback sensors . Based on the signals from the sensor module communicator and the feedback sensor the device CPU calculates prosthetic device actuator commands that are sent to the prosthetic actuators by the prosthetic controller to command movement of the prosthetic device .

Although shown as having a separate sensor module and device module referring to in various embodiments the control apparatus may be comprised of a single unit having an electronic controller that collects data from the sensors completes algorithms to translate the data into a desired movement commands and sets and runs the plurality of prosthetic actuators to achieve the desired movement of the prosthetic device .

Referring to wherein like numerals represent like elements one embodiment of the control apparatus includes a foot sensor module . In some embodiments the foot sensor module comprises one or more inner sole sensors the sensor CPU and the sensor communicator . In this embodiment at least one inner sole sensor is positioned in a housing of a joystick and senses motion of the joystick which has at least two degrees of freedom. The joystick is placed on a sole of footwear and connected to the sensor CPU .

Referring to in some embodiments the joystick is positioned between a big toe and an index toe of the foot . Referring to the joystick has a rod centered through and operatively connected to the housing such that rod has two degrees of freedom. The sensor as shown in is positioned inside the housing and below rod . While the dimensions of housing may vary in the exemplary embodiment it has dimensions small enough to fit comfortably between the user s big toe and index toe and small enough to fit inside footwear . Housing may also include and or have mounts so that joystick may be attached to the sole of footwear . The dimensions of rod may vary but in the exemplary embodiment the rod may be long enough for the user to grasp it between the big toe and index toe . In the exemplary embodiment the joystick may be thick enough that when the user presses against it the joystick will not break. Rod may be made of stainless steel or other durable material. A magnet may be placed at the end of rod disposed inside the housing . The sensor may be connected to the sensor CPU shown in which generates user input signals from the sensor data . The sensor module communicator of the foot sensor module then transmits the user input signals to the device module shown in through wired connections or wirelessly for example but not limited to through Bluetooth RF communication or other similar wireless connections. Sensor detects the position of rod and relays that information to the sensor CPU shown in . Sensor may be a cross axial sensor or other similar sensor. The foot sensor module may impart wireless control to the prosthetic device shown in .

In the embodiment shown in the user grips rod with the big toe and index toe and presses against the rod to control a direction of movement of the prosthetic device shown in or another associated device such as movement of a mouse on a computer screen movement of a car or movement of other similar remote controlled devices. The user may also move rod by placing the big toe on top of rod and pressing the rod in the desired direction. As the user moves rod sensor detects displacement of the magnet at the end of rod and thus detects the direction the user is moving rod . That displacement information is then relayed to the sensor CPU which translates the movement of rod into a desired movement of the associated device. The sensor module communicator then communicates the displacement information to the device module shown in which commands movement of the associated device. The foot sensor module has control of two degrees of freedom such as left and right up and down or forward and backward. The foot sensor module may also be used as a discrete switch such as an on off switch control a mode of the associated device as will be discussed in greater detail below.

Referring to another embodiment of the foot sensor module may include a ball joystick . The ball joystick includes a roller ball instead of the rod . In this embodiment the user may control the prosthetic device shown in by moving the big toe across the roller ball . For example if the ball joystick is programmed to control left and right movement of a prosthetic arm when the user presses the left side of roller ball the prosthetic arm will move to the left. Similarly when the user presses the right side of roller ball the prosthetic arm will move to the right.

Referring to B and another embodiment of the foot sensor module is shown. In this embodiment foot sensor module includes an inner sole having sole sensors positioned at various points on the inner sole . The sole sensors may be of the type such as pressure sensors force sensors or the like. The sensors are affixed to an underside of the inner sole . The device module shown in may be programmed to control various functions of the prosthetic device shown in based on the input from each sole sensor . Although shown with multiple sole sensors as few as one sole sensor may be used in which case the lone sole sensor may function as a discrete on off switch and in some embodiments where multiple sensors are used one or more sensors may function as on off switches . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that by adding more sole sensors to inner sole the difficulty in independently controlling the movement of and pressure applied to each sensor must be taken into consideration. Using two sole sensors the control apparatus shown in will have two degrees of freedom either up and down left and right forward and backward open and close or other similar discrete function. Using four sole sensors the control apparatus shown in will have four degrees of freedom with the ability to move forward backward left and right or up down left and right. Using six sole sensors the control apparatus shown in will have 6 degrees of freedom with the ability to move up down left right forward and backward. In various embodiments one or more of these sensors may also function as discrete switches for example to allow the user to select various hand grips as will be discussed in greater detail below.

In the exemplary embodiment shown in B and foot sensor module has four sole sensors placed on the underside of the inner sole . shows where the sole sensors are in relation to a user s foot one under the big toe one under the left side of the foot one under the right side of the foot and one under the heel of the foot . The sole sensor under the big toe may control movement of the arm forward the sole sensor under the left side of the foot may control movement of the arm to the left the sole sensor on the right side of the foot may control movement of the arm to the right and the sole sensor under the heel may control movement of the arm backward.

In alternative embodiments the sole sensors could be placed under other parts of the foot . For example referring to the underside of the inner sole might have one sole sensor under the ball of the foot and three sole sensors under the heel of the foot .

Regardless of the sensor placement in operation the embodiments shown in operate in a similar fashion. The sensor CPU receives input data from the sole sensors and filters and or converts the data to generate user input signals. The user input signals are transmitted to the device module shown in by the sensor module communicator . The device CPU shown in then calculates prosthetic device actuator commands based at least in part on the user input signals from the sensor module and commands the prosthetic controller shown in to control the associated device such as a mouse on a computer screen a robot or a prosthetic limb in accordance with the device actuator commands. Wires shown in may connect the sensors to the sensor CPU which may be attached to the shoe. The sensor module may be connected to the device module shown in by wires or wirelessly for example through a blue tooth device or other wireless communication system.

In operation as the user presses down on the sole sensors a pressure or force pattern of the foot is created depending on the sole sensor placement. The sensor module measures the change in pressure applied by the user and relays the pattern to the device module shown in . The device module shown in translates the pattern into the prosthetic actuator command. For example the device module shown in may command movement of the associated device in the form of a velocity change or a position change using an equation such as P right arrow over V for velocity change or P Xfor position. For example with the foot sensor module of the embodiment of if the user desires to move the prosthetic arm up he might press down on the sole sensor that is below the big toe . This creates a pressure pattern that is then relayed to the device module shown in and translated into an upward movement of the prosthetic arm. If the user desires to move the prosthetic arm down he might press down on the sole sensor under the heel which creates a different pressure pattern that is relayed to the device module shown in and translated into a downward movement of the prosthetic arm.

Although described for exemplary purposes as providing directional control sole sensors may also provide proportional control. For example with sole sensors that are pressure sensors or force sensors the amount of pressure or force exerted on them may be translated into a speed at which the controlled device moves. Referring to B and for the foot sensor module if the user desires to move the prosthetic arm quickly across the body from left to right he might heavily press sole sensor on the right side of inner sole . Alternatively if the user desires to move the prosthetic arm slowly across the body from left to right he might lightly press sole sensor on the right side of inner sole . Accordingly the device actuator commands generated by the device module shown in may vary depending on the magnitude of the pressure or force applied by the user to the sole sensors which is dissimilar to sensors that act only as switches i.e. where no mater how hard the sensor is pressed the output movement does not change.

With pressure sensors or force sensors the user has better kinematic control of the prosthesis for smoother less jerky movements. The user is not limited to two movements of strictly up and down or left and right but is rather able to control both the speed and direction of the movement. Additionally the user may engage multiple sole sensors simultaneously to give a combined motion e.g. up and left . For example in the embodiment shown in the foot sensor module has three sole sensors under the heel that control the left right and backward movement of the prosthetic device shown in . As the user rolls the heel across the sole sensors from right to left the prosthetic device shown in will move smoothly in a similar sweeping backward movement. Without these sole sensors the prosthetic device shown in would first have to move from left to right stop and then move backward resulting in a choppy motion.

Referring to in an alternative embodiment of the foot sensor module the foot sensor module may additionally have top sensors placed on a topside of the sole . This embodiment may have sole sensors on the underside of inner sole as well as the top sensors on the topside of inner sole . In such an embodiment top sensors may act as discrete or proportional switches and may be placed under toes or other parts of the foot that will not significantly affect the pressure or force readings of sensors on the underside of inner sole . For example and still referring to when used to control a prosthetic arm top sensors act as mode switches located on the topside of inner sole under the index toe and little toe . The top sensor under the index toe may be pressed to signal the device module shown in that the foot sensor module is in an arm mode or a bulk mode and will be moving certain actuators of the prosthetic arm such as shoulder humerus and or elbow actuators while locking other actuators in position such as finger and wrist actuators. The top sensor under the little toe may then be pressed to switch to a hand grasping mode which signals the device module shown in that the foot sensor module is being used to change the type of hand grasp by controlling finger and or wrist actuators while locking one or more of the bulk movement actuators in position. In other applications such as using the foot sensor module to drive a cursor on a computer screen these top sensors might be used to signal as left and right mouse buttons.

Referring to another alternative embodiment of the foot sensor module utilizing sole sensors may additionally use shoe sensors which may be placed above the toes on an inner portion of a roof of footwear . In such an embodiment shoe sensors may act as discrete switches. For example in addition to sole sensors on the underside of sole the foot sensor module may have the top sensor on the top surface of sole below the big toe and shoe sensors on the inner surface of the roof of the shoe above the big toe and index toe . The top sensor and shoe sensors may be programmed to switch modes. For example pressing the big toe up against the shoe sensor may set the device module shown in to arm bulk mode or gross mode wherein the foot sensor module may be used to control the bulk movement of the prosthetic arm as will be discussed in greater detail below. Alternatively pressing the big toe down against the top sensor may set the device module shown in to a wrist mode to control only the wrist of the prosthetic arm or to a finesse mode in which only the wrist and hand actuators are controlled. Once in the desired mode the sole sensors could then be used to control desired movements of the prosthetic device shown in . The shoe sensors may also be used to control other features of a prosthetic such as opening closing a hand or acting as an on off switch. Thus a body input signal transmitted from a particular sensor of the foot sensor module could be used by the device module shown in to command a variety of movements of the prosthetic device shown in depending upon the selected mode.

Although the foot sensor module has been shown and described with respect to the detailed embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail thereof may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the sensors may be attached to the inner lining of a sock or may be directly attached to a shoe.

Referring to in another embodiment the sensor module of the control apparatus may include a residuum joystick having a frame and residuum sensors . Referring to in this embodiment the residuum joystick may be attached to a prosthetic support so that a user s residuum not shown may extend into the residuum joystick . The user may then control the prosthetic device shown in by moving the residuum not shown to activate the residuum sensors .

In this embodiment as shown with four residuum sensors although in various other embodiments greater than four or less than four sensors may be used the user may control the movement of the prosthetic device shown in in two degrees of freedom such as vertical movement and horizontal movement. Referring to a residuum extends into the residuum joystick having residuum sensors . As shown the residuum is not in contact with the residuum sensors so the prosthetic device shown in will remain stationary. As shown in the user may generate body input signals transmitted from the sensor module shown in to the device module shown in by for example moving the residuum to engage the right residuum sensor . The signal generated by engaging the right residuum sensor may be used by the device module shown in to command the prosthetic device shown in for example the device module may command the prosthetic device to move to the right. Similarly as shown in the user may move the residuum forward and to the left engaging two residuum sensors to signal the device module shown in to move the prosthetic device shown in up and to the left.

The residuum sensors may alternatively be used as discrete switches. For example one residuum sensor may be used to switch between a bulk mode in which bulk movement of the prosthetic arm is controlled and a finesse mode in which only hand and wrist actuation of the prosthetic arm is controlled.

The residuum input may provide physical feedback to a user. Thus adding to spatial and other types of feedback a user may experience. Thus the residuum input may enhance the control by the user. The residuum input may also be used for proportional and or position control.

Another embodiment of the control apparatus shown in uses kinematic mapping sensing head and body movement to control the prosthetic device . The user moves the head and body in coordination to select a point in space where they desire the prosthetic device to move. Head movement is slow intentional and decoupled from a major function which makes it ideal for prosthetic control. This kinematic mapping control may be a mode that may be selected by the user by for example but not limited to a double click of a switch.

Referring to a kinematic mapping sensor module features three body sensors in three locations the shoulder the head and the waist . In this way two body sensors are on the body of the user and the other body sensor is on the head . For example a hat may hold one body sensor or alternatively the head body sensor may be mounted above an ear as a separate wireless unit. One body sensor may be incorporated into a belt or a pack not shown strapped onto the midsection of the user and another body sensor may be included on a prosthetic support mounted to the user s shoulder .

This embodiment uses inertial sensors as body sensors . These three body sensors may be used to detect up to six multiple degrees of freedom. Specifically the body sensors may detect head yaw head roll head pitch torso yaw torso roll and torso pitch . Additionally theses body sensors may detect x y and z plane positioning. These sensors may also act as velocity acceleration gyros accelerometers angular velocity and magnetometers. Although shown as inertial sensors the body sensors may also be shape sensors that may detect body flex.

Still referring to in this embodiment of the sensor module the control apparatus shown in assumes a fixed point of rotation at the middle of the prosthetic hand and creates a reference sphere around the fixed point. User preference determines the location of the fixed point by allowing the user to zero out the system with specific body input sensed by body sensors such as looking around. Then the user looks at a point about which the sphere is created. By choosing where the fixed point of rotation is the user customizes and orients the movement path. To select the fixed point and sphere head rotation specifies an angle and body lean or shoulder rotation specifies radius.

Although the various embodiments of sensor modules have been described separately herein for simplicity it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the various embodiments may be used in combination to achieve the desired prosthetic control. For example the foot sensor module shown in may be used in conjunction with another sensor module and or control system such as an inertial sensor module and or control system a shoulder joystick and or an EMG sensor module and or control system .

Referring back to as discussed above the device module may use the body input signals from the sensor module to control the prosthetic device in a variety of different control modes selectable by the user to achieve different functionalities from the prosthetic device . For example a control method of the prosthetic device may include a bulk mode and a finesse mode. Bulk mode includes movement of the prosthetic device into the general vicinity desired by the user for example by moving the palm of the prosthetic hand to a desired point in space. Thus for example bulk mode for a prosthetic arm may include actuation of the shoulder humerus and or elbow actuators and or wrist. The terms bulk movement gross movement and gross mode as used herein are synonymous with the term bulk mode.

Finesse mode in this embodiment relates to the ability to manipulate an object not shown and specifically relates to operating a prosthetic hand and a prosthetic wrist. Finesse mode may be used to achieve wrist rotation inflection deviation and hand gripping. Thus the finesse mode allows the prosthetic hand to grasp or grip the object. A grasp or grip refers to an orientation of the prosthetic hand s overall hand pattern as will be discussed in greater detail below. The grip may be activated by the user to hold and manipulate the object. The terms finesse movement fine movement and fine mode as used herein are synonymous with the term finesse mode.

The current method uses bulk movement to allow the user to position the prosthetic arm at a specific point in a three dimensional space x y and z components . Once the prosthetic arm has reached the desired location i.e. the specific point finesse movement allows the user to manipulate the prosthetic hand and grip the object.

Both bulk and finesse movements are determined using the various control apparatuses described herein. The user determines a point that they want the prosthetic arm to reach and relative to a control input the prosthetic arm moves to that point in space. This type of bulk movement results in simultaneous degree of freedom movement.

For example in an embodiment with head control the head moves and controls one joint of the prosthetic arm resulting in one action. The input is head movement the output is movement of the prosthetic arm. Similarly referring back to in an embodiment having the foot sensor module the user may apply pressure with different parts of the foot to sensors to control the bulk movement of the prosthetic arm. The user may then engage the shoe sensor to switch from bulk movement to finesse movement and then use sensors to control the finesse movement of the prosthetic arm. This method allows the user to alternate between bulk movement and finesse movement.

In one embodiment the device module commands shoulder deflection and extension elbow flexion and extension and humerus rotation of the prosthetic arm in bulk mode. Additionally depending on the severity of the amputation shoulder abduction and adduction may also be controlled in bulk mode. In finesse mode the device module may command wrist rotation flexion deviation and extension and hand manipulation including thumb and finger movement. In finesse mode pressure and force sensors measure the distribution of weight and may be used to detect input specific to the grasp. The distribution of weight on the foot sensors may deliver specific input allowing the device module to select the desired grip. Alternatively in another embodiment head position may be used to select the grip.

Although described with regard to a shoulder disarticulation amputee it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the control systems and methods described herein may be adapted to be used for any prosthetic strapped onto the body. For example for an elbow joint disarticulation amputee direct control of just elbow joint finesse control may be used for wrist and hand manipulation.

In some embodiments the control apparatus may include other modes such as an off mode a home mode and a hold mode. Any of the various sensors described herein may be programmed for mode selection.

In the home mode the prosthetic device is in a preset location such as by the side of the user and the device module is not sending any commands to the prosthetic device . Thus the prosthetic device is not moving. In the hold mode the prosthetic device maintains a fixed position. The term standby mode has also been used herein and is synonymous with hold mode. In one embodiment the hold position appears as though it is not receiving any input but rather the last position data is continuously sent to the prosthetic device to actively maintain the position.

In an alternative embodiment of the hold mode a hold command may be sent that engages various brakes within the prosthetic device rather than continually sending the same coordinates freeing the system to do other functions instead of continuously calculating the last position. This improves the control apparatus by conserving power.

Referring to one embodiment of the control method of the control apparatus includes operating the prosthetic device in home mode S then in bulk mode S then in finesse mode S and then in bulk mode S. This allows the user to enter bulk mode and move the prosthetic arm to the desired location then enter finesse mode to move the prosthetic hand and wrist to manipulate the object as desired and then return the arm to home mode.

Referring to an additional embodiment may include operating the control apparatus in home mode S then in bulk mode S then in finesse mode S then in hold mode S and then in bulk mode S. This allows a user to move the prosthetic arm to the desired location and manipulate the object then the user is able to hold the object in the desired position before the prosthetic arm is returned to home mode.

Referring to in these embodiments having sensors a person using the control apparatus puts the prosthetic arm on and simple setup state procedure is executed to quickly calibrate the prosthetic arm. For instance orientation sensors in the prosthetic arm may provide position information to the device module to identify the starting position of the prosthetic arm S. The device module then tares the sensors to zero them out so that their rotations are in respect to their tarred position S. The body sensors are then read to get the user s perceived Z and Y axis S. A calibration step is then run where the Z axis is projected on the normal plane with the Y axis to get the X axis S. The body sensors are then read again to identify the coordinates for the home mode S. Then the control apparatus is ready to be operated.

Referring to when the control apparatus is in a deactivated state such as in home mode or hold mode prior to enabling movement the device module may use transformation sensors in the prosthetic arm tare the body sensors to zero them out so that their rotations are in respect to their tarred position S. The body sensors are then read to get the user s perceived Z and Y axis and the Z axis is projected on the normal plane with the Y axis to get the X axis S. Once the perceived axes are known the sensors are activated and may be used in bulk mode and or finesse mode. The transformation sensors use the fixed point of the cylindrical mapping system and the lengths of each prosthetic arm component to determine when the arm has achieved the desired point in space. In various other embodiments a spherical mapping system and or a Cartesian coordinate system may also be used.

Referring to a control method for embodiments using kinematic mapping such as that shown in is shown. When the sensors have been activated the sensors identify the desired coordinates for the prosthetic arm to move to S. Once the fixed point is specified the device module goes through equation calculations which in some embodiments may include quadratic equation calculations to calculate the best velocity and direction vector for getting the target sphere and or coordinate and or point in three dimensional space to line up correctly S. The device module then goes through dot products to determine the necessary angles for the shoulder elbow and humeral prosthetic movement S. Based on those calculated angles the arm is moved to reach the target sphere S. Once the sensors determine that the target sphere has been reached the arm movement is stopped S.

In an alternative embodiment utilizing kinematic mapping there is a click and go mode. Thus in the click and go mode if the user wants to move the prosthetic device to an object they may look at a point in space where they want the prosthetic device to go and then engage a sensor such as residuum sensor shown in that activates the click and go mode. Once activated the body sensors determine where the head was looking and where the body leaned and coordinates are sent directing the prosthetic device to go to that location. Click and go mode may use the same sensor set for controlling bulk movement as finesse movement. For instance once the bulk movement begins the head sensor may then control the finesse movement.

In another embodiment by using accelerometers and body sensors the control apparatus shown in is able to identify the center of gravity in relation to the body sensor on the shoulder. From that the device module shown in sending angle commands to the prosthetic arm knows where the end of prosthetic arm is and knows where the gravity vector with respect to the end of the arm is. Therefore the device module shown in may rotate the wrist with respect to the gravity vector to maintain an object not shown within the prosthetic hand in an upright position.

In an alternate embodiment using body sensors the user could put the sensor on only their head using the sensor to three dimensionally map the desired movements. This would decrease the number of sensors required to control the prosthetic.

The control apparatus may control sensitivity of movement in that the device module may vary the degree that sensor input is translated to movement output. Additionally the sensor input may be required to meet a threshold value before movement output is sent to the prosthetic.

In some embodiments there may also be an arm swing mode allowing the prosthetic arm to move in harmony with the body while walking. When the user is going to use the arm it is in the home off position and swing mode may be activated by engaging a sensor or by detecting a specific motion or orientation with the body sensor . In some embodiments swing mode may also be activated by a manual switch and or lever disengaging mechanical engagement of a portion of the prosthetic device .

Switching modes or selecting commands may be accomplished by engaging sensors acting as discrete switches by specific body motion such as ticks or head movement by standard EMG signals using EMG electrodes by shoulder or back movements or by any other similar switching mechanism that may be programmed into the control apparatus including but not limited to macros and or other commands beyond direct kinematic movement or mode.

The sensors may be disposed in various locations for detecting body input to control the movement of the prosthetic device such as in footwear. The control apparatus may utilize wireless communication between the sensors the sensor module the device module and the prosthetic device simplifying the control apparatus for the user. The sensors may act as discrete switches to control operational modes of the prosthetic device and or the control apparatus may move the prosthetic device proportionally to the body input sensed by the sensors . The sensors may also be disposed in a prosthetic support apparatus allowing user to provide body input to the sensors with the residuum .

Each sensor may sense a variety of body inputs such as pressure and rate of pressure change. Therefore body input from one sensor may be translated by the device module into multiple forms of movement information such as direction and speed of movement.

Referring to in various embodiments rather than a series of discrete sensors as shown in a sensor grid may be included in footwear to generate a pressure profile for the user s foot . The sensed pressure profile may be sent by the sensor CPU to the device module shown in and used by the device module shown in to command the prosthetic device shown in . Thus by changing the pressure profile of the foot the user may be able to command different functions from the prosthetic device shown in . Although shown on the underside of the inner sole the sensor grid could also be include on the topside of the inner sole or could be integral with the inner sole .

Referring to the sensor grid includes a plurality of zones in which pressure may be detected to generate the pressure profile for the user s foot shown in . For example force sensing resistors may be used to form the plurality of zones thereby allowing the pressure on each zone to be detected separately. In addition to force sensing resistors in other embodiments other pressure or force sensors may be used to form the plurality of zones for example strain gauges air bladders and any other similar force sensors.

Referring to the pressure profile may show that region on one side of the user s footwear has higher pressure relative to that of region on the opposite side of the user s footwear . This pressure profile may be used to command a particular motion from the prosthetic device shown in for example the pressure profile may move the prosthetic device shown in to the right. Similarly a pressure profile with a higher relative pressure in region to that of region may be used to command a different motion from the prosthetic device shown in for example movement of the prosthetic device shown in to the left. The pressure profile may also show that region at the front of the user s footwear is greater or lower than the pressure of region at the rear of the user s footwear . Thus the pressure profile of the front relative to the rear of the user s footwear may be used by the device module shown in to provide the prosthetic device shown in with two additional degrees of freedom such as forward and rearward motion. Various pressure profiles detected by the sensor grid may also be used as switches for example a pressure profile with a high pressure in region relative to region may be used to change between modes such as bulk mode and finesse mode. Similarly different pressure profiles may be used to select hand grips or to scroll through a list as will be discussed in greater detail below.

Thus referring back to the sensor grid provides the controller apparatus shown in with the ability to control movement of the prosthetic device shown in in at least two degrees of freedom to control multiple switches or to control some combination of movement and switching. This embodiment may be more desirable than the embodiments with multiple sensors shown in since in the multi sensor approach the user s foot may move around in the footwear shown in making it more difficult for the user to locate and activate the sensors . The sensor grid overcomes the issue of sensor location and activation by using variations in the pressure pattern formed by the user s foot to command the prosthetic device shown in . Thus the user must only shift weight in a desired direction to change the pressure profile rather than locating discrete sensors within the footwear . Additionally using pressure pattern recognition the device module shown in may determine the direction the user s weight is being shifted thereby allowing small movements to be detected so that the user is not required to exaggerate their movements rather the sensor grid will sense small or micro movements and command the prosthetic device shown in accordingly. Additionally in various embodiments the sensor grid may be implemented along with shoe sensors for the use as discrete switches as discussed above.

Referring to the sensor module of the control system may include one or more Inertial Measurement Units IMUs in place of or in addition to the one or more sensors . The one or more IMUs detect orientation as will be discussed in greater detail below which may be transmitted to device module for commanding the associated prosthetic device . Thus by altering the orientation of the IMU the user may control the prosthetic device in a desired manner. Referring to in some embodiments where multiple IMUs are attached to different body parts it may be desirable to provide separate sensor modules for each IMU to decouple to IMUs from each other. In these embodiments each sensor module may communicate with the device module and the device module uses the body input signals provided from each sensor module to command the associated prosthetic device .

Referring to in some embodiments the IMU may determine the orientation of the user s foot . In some embodiments particularly where an increased number of control inputs is desired one IMU may be used on each foot of the user the term feet or foot is a general description in some embodiments the IMU may be placed on a user s ankle or ankles or on the user s leg or legs. In some embodiments the IMU s may be placed on any part of a user indicative of the movement of the foot feet including but not limited to affixed to the user s clothing or footwear . In some embodiments IMUs may be placed at other locations on the user including but not limited to the user s arm head or the like. Each IMU is a device capable of sensing motion using a combination of sensors as will be discussed in greater detail below.

Referring to in some embodiments the IMUs may be a commercially available unit such as a MICROSTRAIN 3DM GX1 by Microstrain Inc. Williston Vt. In some embodiments a variety of other inertial measurement units may be implemented such as those described in the U.S. Patent Application entitled SYSTEM METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ORIENTATION CONTROL filed on the same day as the present application and assigned to the same assignee which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In these embodiments the IMU may be accommodated in a housing having a base and a cover which interface to enclose the IMU within a housing cavity . The cover may be connectable to the base by a plurality of screws or other known fastening means such as a snap fit one or more latches or the like. In the exemplary embodiment the housing may measure approximately 0.61 in. 0.65 in. 0.22 in. The base of the housing may include an electronics orifice through which the IMU within the housing may be connected to the sensor CPU and the sensor module communicator shown in for example through one or more wires . The one or more wires may also connect the IMU to a battery not shown for powering the IMU .

Referring to the IMU may include one or more accelerometers and or one or more gyroscopes to measure orientation of the IMU relative to a gravitational direction G shown in including but not limited to sensing type rate and direction of the orientation change of the IMU . The IMU has an output to facilitate connection of the IMU to the sensor CPU sensor module communicator and battery not shown through the electronics orifice shown in . The one or more accelerometers and the one or more gyroscopes may be electrically connected to the output by one or more circuit boards . As discussed above the sensor module communicator may include a radio or Bluetooth transmitter for wirelessly transmitting signals to the device module shown in or the sensor module communicator may be hardwired to the device module shown in .

Referring back to the data collected from the at least one IMU may be used by the device module shown in in an algorithm to translate orientation of the foot and or changes in orientation to a commanded movement of the prosthetic device shown in . In some embodiments IMU may include at least two accelerometers detecting acceleration about two axes and at least one gyroscope for detecting orientation changes about a third axis. Thus the IMU in some embodiments may detect orientation changes about at least three axes thereby allowing the user to control the prosthetic device shown in in at least three degrees of freedom.

The accelerometers of each of the IMUs may be arranged to detect pitch about the X axis relative to the gravitational direction G and roll about the Y axis relative to the gravitational direction G. The gyroscope shown in of each of the IMUs is in some embodiments arranged to detect yaw dot over about the Z axis. Thus by using two IMUs one IMU on each foot the user is able to control the prosthetic device shown in in at least six degrees of freedom.

Each IMU is arranged with one accelerometer in the Y direction and the other accelerometer in the X direction. When the IMU is flat i.e. the Z axis is coincident with the gravitational direction G gravity which is an acceleration of 1G in the gravitational direction G only includes a component projected on the Z axis. As the IMU tilts a component of gravity is projected onto the X axis and or Y axis. This tilt is detectable by the accelerometer arranged on the axis upon which the component of gravity is projected. Since 1G is a known value the arcsin of the value detected by each accelerometer of the IMU is a proportion of 1G and representative of the pitch and or roll .

Although shown in with the Z axis being coincident with the gravitational direction G as seen in the Z axis of each of the IMUs may be offset from the gravitational direction G for example if the IMU is not initially situated flatly on the users foot if the IMU shifts during use or if the user is standing on an incline decline or the like. Therefore the sensor module of the present invention may zero the IMUs as will be discussed in greater detail below by setting a pitch offset and a roll offset when initialized or reinitialized during use.

Referring to the pitch detected by the IMU may be configured to command the prosthetic device shown in . For example the device module shown in may command the prosthetic device when where 

 is a present minimum pitch angle that must be exceeded to ensure that the detected pitch is a desired command and not due to unintentional movement of the user s foot shown in .

In one embodiment the command generated by the device module shown in from the pitch may be a switch that alternates between an on state and an off state each time . In another embodiment pitch may command the controller to toggle through a list of operational control modes which will be discussed in greater detail below. For example each instance that is exceeded the controller may toggle forward through the list if is a positive value and may toggle backward i.e. in reverse through the list if is a negative value.

In one embodiment the command generated by the device module shown in may correspond to a movement M of the prosthetic device shown in if . For example where 

the device module shown in may command movement at a preset velocity in a preset direction e.g. the device module may command upward movement at the preset velocity if is a positive value and may command downward movement if is a negative value. In another embodiment the movement may be commanded using the equation where 

kand kare gains that may be preset based on the type of movement desired. The movement Mmay be set to correspond to a variety of possible movements of the prosthetic device shown in . For example Mmay be a distance of deflection in a direct direction or a speed of travel in a direction.

Referring to the roll detected by the IMU may also be configured to command the prosthetic device shown in in a manner similar to that discussed above for the pitch . For example the device module shown in may command the prosthetic device when where 

 is a present minimum roll angle that must be exceeded to ensure that the detected roll is a desired command and not due to unintentional movement of the user s foot shown in .

In one embodiment the command generated by the device module shown in from the roll may be a switch that alternates between an on state and an off state each time . In another embodiment may command the device module shown in to toggle through a list of operational modes which will be discussed in greater detail below. For example each instance that is exceeded the device module shown in may toggle forward through the list if is a positive value and may toggle backward i.e. in reverse through the list if is a negative value.

In one embodiment the command generated by the device module shown in may correspond to a movement M of the prosthetic device shown in if . For example when the device module shown in may command movement at a preset velocity in a preset direction e.g. the device module may command movement to the right at the preset velocity if is a positive value and may command movement to the left if is a negative value. In another embodiment the movement may be commanded using the equation where 

kand kare gains that may be preset based on the type of movement desired. The movement Mmay be set to correspond to a variety of possible movements of the prosthetic device shown in . For example Mmay be a distance of deflection in a direct direction or a speed of travel in a direction.

Referring to each gyroscope is able to detect yaw dot over as the rate of angular rotation relative to the Z axis. Thus yaw dot over about the Z axis is detectable by the IMU when the user s foot moves about the Z axis. Unlike the pitch and roll which are each detected relative to a fixed reference i.e. the gravitational direction G the yaw dot over is detected by the gyroscope with respect to the reference frame of the gyroscope . Thus the gyroscope effectively resets its frame of reference after each angular deflection of the IMU . For example if after moving from the first position Pto the second position P the user then moves the IMU to a third position P the yaw dot over detected by the IMU as the IMU moves from the second position Pto the third position Pwould be relative to the second position P. This yaw dot over detected by the IMU may be configured to command the prosthetic device shown in .

For example the device module shown in may command the prosthetic device when dot over dot over where 

dot over is a present minimum yaw angular rotation that must be exceeded to ensure that the detected yaw dot over is a desired command and not due to unintentional movement of the user s foot shown in or drifting of the gyroscope .

Advantageously since the yaw dot over detected by the gyroscope about the Z axis is relative to the previous position of the IMU rather than a fixed reference frame like the gravitational direction G shown in a yaw offset is not necessary as was the case with detection of the pitch and roll.

In one embodiment the command generated by the device module shown in from the yaw dot over may be a switch that alternates between an on state and an off state each time dot over dot over . In another embodiment yaw dot over may command the device module shown in to toggle through a list of operational modes which will be discussed in greater detail below. For example each instance that dot over is exceeded the device module shown in may toggle forward through the list if dot over is a positive value and may toggle backward i.e. in reverse through the list if dot over is a negative value.

In one embodiment the command generated by the device module shown in may correspond to a movement M of the prosthetic device shown in if dot over dot over . For example when dot over dot over the device module shown in may command movement Mat a preset velocity in a preset direction e.g. the device module may command movement to the right at the preset velocity if dot over is a positive value and may command movement to the left if dot over is a negative value. In this exemplary embodiment for commanding right and left movement it may also be desirable to halt right and left movement using the detected yaw dot over . For example if the device module has commanded movement Mto the right based on a positive dot over a subsequently detected negative dot over that satisfies the relationship dot over dot over may generate a command to stop moving to the right rather than a command to move to the left. From the stopped position another negative dot over that satisfies the relationship dot over dot over would then command leftward movement or alternatively a positive dot over that satisfies the relationship dot over dot over would then command rightward movement. Similarly if the device module has commanded movement Mto the left based on a negative dot over a subsequently detected positive dot over that satisfies the relationship dot over dot over may generate a command to stop moving to the left rather than a command to move to the right. From the stopped position a negative dot over that satisfies the relationship dot over dot over would then command leftward movement or alternatively a positive dot over that satisfies the relationship dot over dot over would then command rightward movement.

For exemplary purposes the pitch roll and yaw dot over have been described as commanding specific movements in connection with . However it should be understood that the pitch roll and yaw dot over may be programmed within the device module shown in to command a variety of different movements and in some embodiments in response to the user s preferences and customization as will be discussed in greater detail below.

It should be understood that although the use of at least one IMU for control of a prosthetic device shown in is described herein the at least one IMU may be used in conjunction with any one or more various devices and or sensors to control the prosthetic device . Thus in some embodiments the IMU may be used in conjunction with the sensors top sensors and sensor grid discussed above as well as with an EMG system and with a pull switch. For example in various embodiments of present invention one or more prosthetic shoulder movements may be controlled by the shoulder sensor shown in while side to side movements of the prosthetic device may be controlled by sensors sensor grids or IMUs .

Additionally although an exemplary embodiment of the IMU is described herein which may be used in the exemplary embodiment of the system apparatus and method for control of a prosthetic device shown in in other embodiments any device capable of determining orientation may be used for the IMU as should be understood by those skilled in the art. For instance another type of sensor may be used in the IMU such as a 3 axis accelerometer a 3 axis magnetometer and tilt bulb s .

In some embodiments it may be beneficial to include three accelerometers or a three axis accelerometer in the IMU along with at least one gyroscope for detecting orientation changes about at least three axes and for enabling walk detection. In an embodiment with IMU having three accelerometers the IMU generates output relating to pitch roll and yaw dot over in substantially the same manner discussed above in connection with the IMU having two accelerometers . However with the third accelerometer the IMU may provide the control apparatus shown in with walk detection capability.

Referring back to when using the IMU for control of the prosthetic device walking may be problematic since walking movement of the user s foot shown in will cause the IMU to sense orientation changes which the device module will use to command movement of the prosthetic device . However walking may be detected by providing an IMU having a third accelerometer . Referring to each of the accelerometers may be arranged to measure the acceleration in one of the X Y or Z directions. Thus when the user is substantially stationary the vector sum of the accelerations detected by each of the three accelerometers should be substantially equal to 1G. When the Z axis is coincident with the direction of gravity G the accelerometer detecting acceleration in the Z direction will detect the entire 1G acceleration due to gravity since the accelerations in the X and Y directions will be substantially equal to zero. Now referring to when the user is stationary but the direction of gravity G is not coincident with the Z axis i.e. the user has moved their foot to command a pitch and or roll the vector sum of the accelerations Ax Ay and Az in the X Y and Z directions respectively will still equal 1G.

If the user begins to walk the vector sum of the accelerations Ax Ay and Az detected by each of the three accelerometers will be substantially greater than 1G since the act of walking will cause additional acceleration other than gravity to be detected by the IMU . Therefore referring to once the IMU detects the accelerations Ax Ay and Az in S the vector sum of the accelerations may be compared to a walk detect limit in S. In some embodiments the walk detect limit may be set at approximately 1.2G. If the vector sum of the accelerations is lower than the walk detect limit in S the device module shown in will command the prosthetic device shown in in accordance with the pitch roll and or yaw dot over detected by the IMU . However if the walk detect limit is exceeded by the vector sum of the accelerations the device module shown in will assume the user is walking and may alter the control scheme for the prosthetic device in S.

For example in one embodiment of an altered control scheme when walking is detected the device module shown in filters out high accelerations from the pitch roll and or yaw dot over signals generated by the IMU shown in when the vector sum of the accelerations Ax Ay and Az is greater than the walk detect limit. Thus when the user begins to walk measurements having a value larger than the walk detect limit will not command movement of the prosthetic device shown in . This walk detection embodiment is beneficial as discussed above because once the user is walking the accelerations detected by the IMU s are large enough that the resulting signal may not be correctly indicative of the user s intent. In some embodiments this embodiment of walk detection may be implemented where one or more IMUs is worn on another area of the user including but not limited to the residuum.

In another embodiment for a walk detection control scheme when the control apparatus shown in senses a user is walking the device module shown in may stop using the signals generated by the IMU shown in entirely and instead switch to another sensor or signal input e.g. EMG to determine user input intent. Additionally in some embodiments where the control apparatus shown in detects that the user is walking the device module shown in may enter a standby mode in which no commands are sent to the prosthetic device shown in as will be discussed in greater detail below. Entering standby mode both saves power and also prevents the prosthetic device shown in from executing potentially erratic and unintended movement.

In some embodiments the walk detect limit may need to be exceeded for a predetermined duration e.g. at least seconds before the control apparatus shown in implements a different command after a predetermined amount of time the user is walking. In this embodiment the device module shown in may then send a command signal to the prosthetic device shown in after the predetermined period has elapsed to place most of the controlled electronics i.e. the electronics in the prosthetic device into a sleep mode. When in sleep mode if the control apparatus shown in determines that the user is no longer walking which may be detected from the orientation signals generated by the IMU indicating that the vector sum of the accelerations Ax Ay and Az is below the walk detect limit for the predetermined period the device module shown in may then turn the controlled electronics on again to allow normal operation of the prosthetic device shown in .

In some embodiments after the device module determines that the user is no longer walking the control system may enter standby mode where it can be determined if the user has repositioned the IMU and if so the IMU may be zeroed. Additionally in some embodiments when walk detection mode is entered the device module may stay in its current mode of operation but ignore body input signals from the IMU for a predefined walking time. Then if the predefined walking time is exceeded and the device module still detects that the user is walking the device module may enter standby mode to conserve power.

In another embodiment of a control scheme for when user walking has been detected the device module shown in may ignore only the yaw signal dot over when the walk detect limit is exceeded by the vector sum of the accelerations Ax Ay and Az. Then when the control apparatus shown in determines the user has stopped walking the device module shown in may begin using the yaw signal dot over again. In some embodiments the device module shown in re zeros the yaw measurement when the large accelerations cease i.e. when the accelerations are below the walk detect limit .

In some embodiments the control system of the present invention may include a power free swing mode that may be activated automatically when the device module shown in determines that the user is walking. In power free swing mode the device module shown in may allow the joints of the prosthetic device shown in to freely move so that the prosthetic device may swing as a result of the user s walking movement. Power free swing mode provides the user with a more natural look while walking without significantly increasing power consumption to do so.

In another embodiment the control system may include a power swing mode which also controls the prosthetic device shown in to swing as the user is walking. In various embodiments the user may pre select or pre program into the device module shown in a default swing speed and then may increase or decrease the speed during use. The user may select this mode and or vary the speed by any of the various sensors and IMUs described herein for user input. In some embodiments the control apparatus shown in in the power swing mode may additionally determine the stride length and rhythm of the user and regulate the powered swing in response to match the user s cadence.

Referring back to as discussed above the control apparatus may control the prosthetic device in a variety of control modes to achieve different functionality from the prosthetic device . The use may enter and exit the different control modes with signals from the various sensors and IMUs discussed above. Additionally some control modes may be entered automatically if a preset condition is achieved for example entering power free swing mode or standby mode if the walk detect limit is exceeded as discussed above.

One control mode of the present invention may be a calibration mode that the user may enter once the user places the IMU s shown in on their foot or feet shown in . This calibration mode may negate any misalignments of the IMU on the user s foot for example by setting the pitch and yaw offset angles discussed above. In some embodiments the user may place the IMU s on their foot or feet and then power the IMU s on to automatically enter the calibration mode. Once in the calibration mode the user may perform one or more calibration movements with their foot or feet i.e. tow up heel up tilt side to side etc. to establish a baseline for the range of motion of the user s foot or feet which may be used for example to set motion control gains such as gains k k kand kdiscussed above. These calibration movements and their order of performance are for exemplary purposes only. In other embodiments different calibration movements and or a different order of performance of calibration movements may be used as should be understood by those skilled in the art. In various embodiments the user may be required to complete a range of motion to establish a baseline and for the system to establish the X Y and Z axes. Other embodiments of the present invention may implement calibration modes as well. For instance in the embodiment having the sensor grid shown in the calibration mode may detect a current pressure profile of the user s foot so that changes in the pressure profile can then be detected to control the prosthetic device .

Referring to as discussed above one control mode of the present invention may be standby mode. The device module shown in initiates standby mode upon receipt of a particular body input signal from the sensor module shown in in S. For instance the body input signal may be generated by engaging a particular sensor by a specific orientation of one or more IMUs or the like. Additionally as discussed above the signal may be generated automatically for example if the control apparatus shown in detects that the user is walking. Upon entering standby mode the prosthetic device shown in becomes frozen or locked in its current position in S. In some embodiments this may include turning off actuators and turning brakes and or clutches on within the prosthetic device . In some embodiments while in standby mode the device module shown in does not send commands to the prosthetic device and therefore does not command unintended movement of the prosthetic device . Standby mode is advantageous since it may allow the user to maintain the prosthetic device in a desired position without significantly draining battery power.

The device module shown in is maintained in standby mode until the device module receives an input signal in S indicating that a new control mode is to be entered. In some embodiments of the present invention when standby mode is exited and a new control mode is entered for example bulk mode finesse mode or the like the device module will send a zero command to the sensor module which the sensor module may use to redefine its zero position or orientation to be the current position or orientation. For example the device module shown in may send a zero command to the IMU of the sensor module by setting a pitch offset and a roll offset . Thus any orientation changes of the foot feet shown in occurring between the time the device module shown in entered standby mode in S and the time that the device module shown in exited standby mode in S are compensated for by the device module . Once the control system has been zeroed in S the device module shown in enters the new control mode in S and begins continuously receiving data from the IMU s of the sensor module shown in for controlling the prosthetic device shown in in accordance with the new control mode. When in the new control mode the prosthetic device will not move while the user s foot is in the zero position since the signals generated by the IMU for the zero position will be interpreted as zero by the device module . When the user s foot leaves the zero position the device module uses the data signals from the IMU to command movement of the prosthetic device shown in based on the selected control mode.

The active zeroing process may be used in other embodiments and thus is not limited to use with the IMU. Further the zeroing process may be beneficial for many reasons including but not limited to where the user moves from flat ground to a sloped ground the controls may interpret this as a command. Thus active zeroing eliminates this issue which may otherwise give ruse to unintended commands.

Referring to bulk mode includes movement of the prosthetic device into the general vicinity desired by the user. When in bulk mode the signals from sensors and or IMUs are used by the device module shown in to move a prosthetic end point to a desired location i.e. a specific point in a three dimensional space x y and z components . For instance in bulk mode the signals from the IMUs and or sensors may be used by the device module shown in to command shoulder abduction M about an abduction axis shoulder flexion M about a shoulder flexion axis humeral rotation M about a humeral rotation axis and elbow flexion M about an elbow flexion axis . In this way the user is able to move the prosthetic end point to the desired location without actuating a prosthetic wrist and hand . Then once the prosthetic end point has reached the desired location the user may engage finesse mode to control the wrist and hand as will be discussed in greater detail below.

In one embodiment the pitch roll and yaw dot over detected by each IMU shown in may correspond to movement of a specific joint of the prosthetic device . For example Mand M discussed above may correspond to Mand M respectively. Similarly M and M may correspond to Mand M respectively. Thus the user may move the prosthetic end point to the desired location by pitching and rolling each foot shown in to move the appropriate prosthetic joints until the desired location is reached. Although described as corresponding to specific joint movements for exemplary purposes it should be understood that M M M M M and M may each be programmed in the device module shown in to correspond to any of the joint movements depending upon user preference. In the exemplary embodiment discussed above M M and or other sensors shown in may be programmed to perform other prosthetic functions such as mode switching or alternatively may not be programmed to perform any function while the control system is in bulk mode.

Referring to in another embodiment for end point control in bulk mode the pitch roll and yaw dot over signals generated by the IMUs may correspond directly to movement of the prosthetic end point . For example Mmay be programmed in the device module shown in to command end point movement Mand M Mmay be programmed in the device module shown in to command end point movement Mand M and M may be programmed in the device module shown in to command Mand M. Although described as corresponding to specific directional movements of the prosthetic end point for exemplary purposes it should be understood that M M M M M and M may each be programmed within the device module shown in to correspond to any of the directional movements depending upon user preference.

In this embodiment the device module shown in commands shoulder abduction Mabout the abduction axis shoulder flexion Mabout the shoulder flexion axis humeral rotation Mabout the humeral rotation axis and elbow flexion Mabout the elbow flexion axis in accordance with a movement function to achieve the commended movement of the prosthetic end point e.g. Mor M. This embodiment for control of the prosthetic end point may in some embodiments be preferable since the user must only be concerned with directional movement of the end point rather than movement of individual joints to achieve the desired end point movement.

As discussed above the pitch roll and yaw dot over signals generated by the IMUs shown in may be mapped either to the position or the velocity of the prosthetic end point . In some embodiments a faster or larger orientation change or rate of change of an IMU may translate to a higher speed of movement of the prosthetic device . Thus in these embodiments the faster an orientation changes the faster the prosthetic device moves. However in other embodiments the control system may not include a speed variant but rather the device module shown in may only command directional movement at preset speeds. In some embodiments the larger movements by the prosthetic device may be quicker in speed for the first 80 of the desired movement but may gradually slow for the last 20 of the desired movement to allow for more fine point control as the prosthetic end point reaches the desired location . For example in some embodiments when moving toward the user s face the prosthetic device may slow down when approaching or getting close to the face. This area of reduced speed may be programmed directly into the end point control by defining a portion of the movement envelope near the user s face as a slow speed area. This functionality may beneficially make use of the prosthetic device more comfortable and or safe for the user. In some embodiments the speed of particular prosthetic joints of the prosthetic device may also be varied over the range of motion of the prosthetic joint for example an elbow joint may slow down as it becomes more flexed.

Thus in some embodiments independent of user input the control system may slow or quicken automatically based on preprogrammed speed controls. Thus this may expand improve the control resolution in one or more areas of the envelope.

As discussed above in some embodiments the speed of the various movements of the prosthetic device may be controlled using the IMUs and in some embodiments it may be desirable to allow limits to the speed of one or more types of movement of the prosthetic device to be customized into the control system. Since some joints of the prosthetic device may need to actuate to a greater degree than other joints to reach the desired location depending upon the location of the desired location relative to the prosthetic end point the velocity limit may be unique for that x y z location of the desired location . In some embodiments the following method may be used by the device module to calculate the maximum speed. The steps include calculating the angles to reach the desired position if any one of the angles exceeds the maximum difference allowed from the current position then the device module assumes the ratio of the angle is the same. Thus if the difference required at X degree angle change and the maximum allowed angle change is Xmax the maximum vector length that is reachable is Xmax X where X is the desired vector length. The new vector length may then be used as the desired input.

Referring to the prosthetic device has a movement envelope that includes a boundary that limits where the prosthetic end point of the prosthetic device is able to move relative to the user. The movement envelope is dependent upon the length of the prosthetic device the length of the various segments of the prosthetic device and movement limitations of the joints of the prosthetic device . The prosthetic end point may reach only desired locations shown in and that are on or within the movement envelope . For example with the prosthetic device in the position shown upward movement Mof the prosthetic end point would require the prosthetic end point to move outside of the movement envelope and therefore cannot be executed. However rather than simply preventing movement outside of the movement envelope by stopping the prosthetic device the device module shown in may instead follow the closest possible movement path by commanding movement along the boundary of the movement envelope that includes a component of the commanded movement.

For example as discussed above with the prosthetic device in the position shown if the user commands upward movement Mof the prosthetic end point the end point would need to move outside of the movement envelope which is not possible. Therefore upon receipt of a signal corresponding to upward movement M the device module shown in may instead command movement Malong the boundary which includes an upward component but also an inward component. Similarly if the user commands outward movement Mof the prosthetic end point the end point would again need to move outside of the movement envelope which is not possible. Therefore upon receipt of a signal corresponding to outward movement M the device module shown in may instead command movement Malong the boundary which includes an outward component but also a downward component.

Thus this embodiment of the present invention is beneficial since it prevents the prosthetic device from becoming stuck in a position along the boundary of the movement envelope simply because the boundary has been reached. Although shown in two dimensions for simplicity it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the movement envelope will actually limit movement of the prosthetic device in three dimensional space for a prosthetic device that is able to move in three dimensions.

Referring to in some embodiments another IMU may be used to measure the orientation of another part of the user s body such as the user s arm or hand . In this embodiment the device module shown in may enter a mimic mode to control bulk movement of the prosthetic device in such a manner that the device module shown in will command the prosthetic device to move the prosthetic end point to substantially mimic the movement of the IMU on the user s arm or hand . Thus for example if the user moves the IMU to the left the device module will move the prosthetic end point to the left. In another embodiment using the IMU on the user s arm or hand the device module shown in may command the prosthetic device to move the prosthetic end point to substantially mirror the movement of the IMU . Thus for example if the user moves the IMU to the right the device module will move the prosthetic end point to the left. Accordingly although some of the exemplary embodiments described herein referring to the use of a user s foot or feet to control a prosthetic device in other embodiments other body parts of the user may be used to provide orientation information.

Referring to as discussed above finesse movement relates to manipulating an object and specifically relates to operating the prosthetic hand and the prosthetic wrist . Operation of the prosthetic hand may include grip selection and or actuation and includes movement of a thumb structure an index structure a middle structure a ring structure and a pinky structure as will be discussed in greater detail below. Wrist operation may include wrist rotation Mabout a wrist rotation axis wrist flexion Mabout a wrist flexion axis and wrist deviation Mabout a wrist deviation axis . When in finesse mode the signals from sensors and or IMUs shown in are used by the device module shown in to command the various wrist movements discussed above. For example Mmay be used to command M Mmay be used to command Mand Mmay be used to command M. Additionally in some embodiments wrist flexion and wrist deviation may be couple together such that the prosthetic wrist follows a fixed path that includes some degree of wrist flexion Mand some degree of wrist deviation M. This embodiment is advantageous because it allows a single input for example M to move the prosthetic wrist along the fixed path thereby controlling both wrist flexion Mand wrist deviation Mwith the single input.

In some embodiments where the prosthetic wrist is provided with three degrees of freedom i.e. wrist rotation M wrist flexion Mand wrist deviation M particular control schemes may be used with respect to the wrist flexion and deviation. For example a gravity based control scheme may be provided where signals from the IMUs shown in may control up down and left right movement of the wrist independent of the wrist rotation position rather than individually controlling the wrist flexion Mand wrist deviation M. Additionally the gravity based control scheme may maintain an object held by the prosthetic hand at a specific orientation relative to gravity if the control mode is switched from finesse mode to bulk mode. This may be accomplished for example by providing a sensor on or within the prosthetic hand for measuring the direction of the gravity vector G. The gravity based control scheme may be activated or deactivated in a manner similar to mode switching for example by activating a switch or sensor. This gravity based control scheme may be particularly beneficial if the user is holding am object that could spill if inverted such as a glass of water or the like.

In another control scheme a single input may again be used by the device module shown in to control both wrist flexion Mand wrist deviation M which may be of particular use where only two degrees of freedom for control input are available. In such an embodiment the controlled movement may be made orientation dependant. For example the control signal may control wrist flexion Mwhen the prosthetic hand is facing palm down but may control wrist deviation Mwhen the prosthetic hand is facing palm sideways.

In addition to control of the prosthetic wrist finesse mode also provides for control of the prosthetic hand . In particular finesse mode provides control for grip selection and actuation. Referring to as used herein a grip refers to the range of motion through which the prosthetic hand passes from a fully open position to a fully closed position . In some embodiments the signals from the IMU and or sensors shown in allow the user to both fully or partially actuate each grip. For example the user may make the grip begin to close by pitching the IMU to generate the pitch signal . However if the user returns the IMU to the zero position the grip maintains its altered position. Then the user may continue to close the grip by pitching the IMU again or alternatively may open the grip by pitching the IMU in the opposite direction.

In some embodiments the device module shown in includes a plurality of different preprogrammed grips that are selectable by the user. For example the user may program specific input signals from the IMUs and or sensors shown in to correspond to the specific grips. In one embodiment the user may set fore and aft pitch and left and right roll detected by the IMU to correspond to four different hand grips. In another embodiment as discussed above one or more signals from the IMUs may be programmed to cycle forward or backward through a list of grips thereby allowing the user to cycle through all of the preprogrammed grips using a single IMU orientation signal. For example left and right roll detected by the IMU may allow the user to cycle through the list of grips and fore and aft pitch may then allow the user to actuate i.e. open and close the selected grip.

In one embodiment the device module shown in includes six different preprogrammed grips that each close the thumb structure index structure middle structure ring structure and pinky structure in varying manners and with varying trajectories. For example referring to a key grip which may also be referred to as a lateral pinch grip may first close the index structure middle structure ring structure and pinky structure while moving the thumb outward to a thumbs up position. Then the thumb structure may be lower to contact the index structure . This key grip allows the user to hold an object not shown within the palm of the prosthetic hand or to pinch an object not shown between the thumb structure and the index structure . Additionally the user may halt actuation midway through the key grip for example to signal a thumbs up. The key grip also includes a dressing position within its trajectory that may assist the user in putting the prosthetic hand through a shirt or coat sleeve. The key grip also includes a handle position within its trajectory in which the index structure middle structure ring structure and pinky structure begin to close to facilitate the grasping of a handle such as the handle of a briefcase.

Referring to the control system may also be preprogrammed with a power grip . The power grip is similar to the key grip shown in in that the index structure middle structure ring structure and pinky structure are closed first while the thumb structure is moved to be perpendicular to the palm of the prosthetic hand . Then the thumb structure is closed laterally along the index structure into a fist.

Referring to the control system may also be preprogrammed with a tool grip . The tool grip first closes the thumb structure middle structure ring structure and pinky structure . Once closed the index structure is then closed as well. This grip is advantageous because it allows the user to grip a hand tool not shown such as a drill or another similar object and then activate the control for the hand tool such as a drill trigger. Additionally the user may halt actuation midway through the grip to provide a hand configuration useful for pointing at objects.

Referring to the control system may also be preprogrammed with a chuck grip in which the orientation of the thumb structure index structure and middle structure is critical. The chuck grip closes the thumb structure toward the base of the middle structure while simultaneously closing the index structure middle structure ring structure and pinky structure to bring the thumb structure to the index structure and middle structure .

Referring to the control system may also include a preprogrammed pinch open grip . The pinch open grip leaves the middle structure the ring structure and the pinky structure open and brings the tip of the thumb structure and the tip of the index structure together to allow the user to pick up small objects not shown .

Referring to the control system may also include a preprogrammed pinch closed grip . The pinch closed grip first closes the middle structure the ring structure and the pinky structure and then brings the tip of the thumb structure and the tip of the index structure together to allow the user to pick up small objects not shown while moving the unused finger structures out of the way.

The position of the fingers thumbs one to another in the various grips may be preprogrammed to maximize the effectiveness of the grips. For example in the chuck grip and the power grip the angle of orientation of the thumb with respect to the fingers may be changed in the control system to optimize the grips. In some embodiments the thumb positioning and various grip trajectories may be determined through one or more user studies and or user input to optimize one or more grips.

Although described as having six grips it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the device module may be preprogrammed with essentially an infinite number of varying grips. In some embodiments the infinite number of grips may be those mid grips or grips formed while the hand is closing to one of the six grips described above. Additionally although the signals from the IMU and the sensors have been described as corresponding to specific joint movements and grips for exemplary purposes it should be understood that M M M M M M and the signals from sensors may each be programmed in the device module to correspond to any of the joint movements or grips depending upon user preference.

In some embodiments it may be beneficial to provide tactile feedback to the user which may be a vibration buzz or other signaling to the user that the hand is grasping. The tactile feedback may be generated by one or more feedback sensors shown in within the prosthetic hand such as pressure sensors or force sensing resistors. In some embodiments the tactile feedback may signal to the user the strength of the grip. In some embodiments where the user is maintaining a steady grip i.e. no change in grip strength the vibration or buzz may stop to signal to the user that the grip is maintaining a desired force rather than changing the exerted force. In some embodiments a the change in force grip is indicated rather than a constant feedback where there is no change.

In some embodiments the system may include user control of compliance for appropriate circumstances. For example but not limited to where the user commands the thumb and index finger to close and the user continues to command the system to close even after the fingers are already closed in some embodiments this may signal the system to back out compliance. This may provide a more forceful grip and the system may continue to increase the stiffness as user continues to command increased closing. Thus in some circumstances the system may lock out compliance. This may be beneficial in making the fingers stiffer by measuring force and controlling the force i.e. force control . This control system may be additionally beneficial for it includes improved interpretation of user commands.

In some embodiments for example in lateral pinch grip force feedback may be used. For example but not limited to where the index finger and thumb close on each other. At a predetermined point the index finger compliance bottoms out and the index finger position is maintained. The thumb may continue to exert force onto the index finger until maximum torque is being exerted onto the index finger.

Referring back to in some embodiments where the control system includes IMUs one on each of the user s feet the control system may include moving platform detection. For example the device module shown in may disregard signals generated by the IMUs when the signals indicative of pitch roll and or yaw dot over generated by both IMUs are substantially identical. The device module will assume that the substantially identical signals generated by the two IMUs are due to accelerations from the user s environment for example if the user is riding in a vehicle such as car a train a plane or the like rather than intended commands. It should be appreciated that in some embodiments of moving platform detection a delta or differential between the two IMUs may be used to command the prosthetic device . In some embodiments this may be a selectable mode that the user may elect during customization of the control apparatus so that the user may activate the mode upon entering the vehicle or the like.

Referring back to in some embodiments the control apparatus also includes a fail safe mode that the device module will enter if a fail condition or error condition is detected from feedback sensors . For example the device module may enter the fail safe mode if power to the system goes out unexpectedly or if communication with the IMUs is lost. In fail safe mode the prosthetic device will remain in its current position and the prosthetic hand will open. The device module may turn the prosthetic actuators off and may engage brakes and or clutches of the prosthetic device . Other system failures or errors that will trigger a failsafe may include but are not limited to sensor faults motor or actuator faults e.g. over current or over temperature conditions feedback position sensor signals out of a normal or expected range or a communication loss or communication errors between the device module and the prosthetic device .

In another embodiment of the present invention the control apparatus may include a computer mode that may be switched on and off using any of the various IMUs and or sensors described herein. When in the computer mode body input signals from the IMUs and sensors may be used to control an associated external device such as movement of a mouse on a computer screen movement of a car or movement of other similar remote controlled devices.

In some embodiments the control apparatus may be preprogrammed with specific macros that may be executed in response to a particular body input signal from one or more of the IMUs and or sensors . For instance the specific macro may be a preprogrammed motion of the prosthetic device that is executed in response to a specific gesture e.g. a double tap or a short tap of the foot . In some embodiments a macro may be programmed in real time by the user for example to record a motion and an associated instigator of that motion. Thus in some embodiments the user may record a performed motion and then instigating the recording the control apparatus may repeat the motion. For example when eating and or drinking the user may find it helpful to record the specific motion and easily repeat the motion by creating a macro.

As discussed above the device module includes a prosthetic controller that is in wireless or wired communication with the prosthetic device . In the exemplary embodiment the prosthetic device may regularly communicate actuator status information e.g. position information to the device module and listens for and expects to receive commands at regular intervals from the device module . In some embodiments if the prosthetic device does not receive commands from the device module within a pre set amount of time the prosthetic device may shut down its actuators and turn on brakes.

As discussed above in certain embodiments of the present invention there are a number of modes in the control system. Thus in these embodiments the pitch roll and yaw dot over signals from the IMU s may be translated to control different functions for each of the different modes. For example the pitch signal from one IMU may control left right movement of the prosthetic end point shown in in bulk mode and may control grip opening closing movement in finesse mode. Additionally if the control system includes other control modes the pitch signal from the IMU may also control other functions within each of those control modes.

In some embodiments mode switching between the various control modes may be accomplished through an electrical switch or with one or more sensors . Additionally mode switching may be provided by moving the user s foot in a specific gesture that has been preprogrammed to be recognized by the device module e.g. a double tap or a short tap of the foot . In other embodiments mode switching may be accomplished using any other type of switch or signal including but not limited to a myoelectric switch such as those known in the art e.g. in some embodiments of control of a prosthetic arm for trans humeral users the tricep and or bicep and or pectoral muscles may be used or for transradial users forearm muscles may be used .

In the exemplary embodiment the switch used to switch between the control modes may also be used to switch the prosthetic device and control apparatus from an on state to an off state. Additionally in some embodiments a short tap of the foot may switch the mode i.e. from bulk mode to finesse mode and visa versa and a double tap of the foot may switch the system from the on stated to the off state. It should be understood that the double tap could be done elsewhere on the user s body i.e. in locations other than the foot with another IMU . In some embodiments switching the control apparatus to the off state maintains the current position of the prosthetic device including the prosthetic hand .

Still referring to as discussed above the control apparatus is in some embodiments customized to the user. For instance the correspondence between each of the signals generated by the IMUs and the control commands sent by the device module to the prosthetic device may be customized. In one embodiment customized correspondence may be mapped in a matrix that is uploaded to device module of the control apparatus . Then when the device module receives orientation signals from the IMUs the device module is able to map the signal to the correct control command to be sent to the prosthetic device .

In embodiments where the user is using one IMU per foot movements of each foot may be linked to or mapped to corresponding movements or types of movements for each mode of the prosthetic i.e. bulk mode and finesse mode. In the exemplary embodiment the customization allows assignment for each orientation signal generated from each IMU to include specifically whether the user desires 1 the particular position of the IMU to control the position of one of the prosthetic joints 2 the particular position of the IMU to control the velocity of one of the prosthetic joints or 3 the rate of change of the IMU to control the velocity of one of the prosthetic joints. It should be noted that in various embodiments in addition to the IMUs other inputs e.g. sensors or EMG may also be mapped to corresponding controls of the prosthetic device . For example EMG signals in some embodiments may also be mapped to movements and types of movements of the prosthetic device .

As discussed above the IMU signals may be assigned to control movements in each of the different control modes. Additionally as discussed above some sensor signals or IMU signals may be assigned to control mode switching i.e. various foot taps may turn the system on or off and may switch the mode between bulk mode and finesse mode . This mode and on off switching is also customizable in the exemplary embodiment. Additionally some sensor and IMU signals may be assigned to toggle forward or backward through a list i.e. to toggling through various grips of the prosthetic hand shown in . Thus the present invention allows for full customization between the various input devices of the sensor modules and the output that is to be commanded by the device module .

For example in the embodiment including IMUs on both feet of the user the pitch from the user s right foot may be assigned elbow flex in bulk mode and wrist flex in finesse mode. The roll from the user s right foot may be assigned humeral rotate in bulk mode and wrist rotate in finesse mode. The pitch from the user s left foot may be assigned to toggle forward and backward through the grip options in finesse mode. The roll from the user s left foot may be assigned to open and close the prosthetic hand in finesse mode. Depending on the prosthetic device there may be various IMU signals translating by the device module to various control commands for both bulk mode and finesse mode. Additionally in embodiments having a single IMU the orientation signals from the single IMU will be assigned the various control commands.

As discussed above the IMUs may be placed elsewhere on the user for example the shoulder residuum knee or lower leg. Referring to in some embodiments rather than the IMU which determines the orientation of the user s foot relative to gravity the orientation of the user s foot may instead be determined by measuring the distance from the bottom of the user s foot to the ground . In some embodiments this measurement may be determined using optical sensors located at a plurality of locations on the bottom of the user s foot . For example one optical sensor may be located at the heel of the foot and two optical sensors may be located along opposite edges of the foot in the in a toe region . These optical sensors measure the distance between the user s foot and the surface the user is on. For example when the user pitches their foot upwards as seen in the sensor may determine the pitch distance and the sensor CPU may compute the angle of the bottom of the user s foot to the surface . Similarly if the user rolls their foot sideways as seen in the sensor may determine the roll distance and the sensor CPU may compute the angle of the bottom of the user s foot to the surface .

Various control systems have been described herein including those to impart end point control onto a prosthetic device . Although the exemplary embodiments of the present invention discuss control systems for users that are shoulder disarticulation amputees the current methods and systems may be broken down for use with prosthetic devices for trans humerus and trans radial amputees. For example if the user s arm has humeral rotation the bulk movement may be simplified to include only elbow flexion. Similarly for trans radial amputees bulk movement may be provided entirely by the user s arm with the control system providing only finesse movement. Thus depending on the user s degree of amputation the bulk mode provided by the control system may be changed or removed entirely such that some embodiments of the present invention will provide both bulk and finesse modes other embodiments will provide only the finesse mode and still other embodiments will provide partial bulk control along with the finesse mode.

As discussed above in connection with the feedback sensors of the prosthetic device send signals to the device module that the device module may use to command the actuators of the prosthetic device . Additionally the device module may also advantageously store data relating to the usage of the prosthetic device to allow the control system to be tailored to the particular user and or to allow a technician to identify portions of the prosthetic device that may be improved. Referring to in some embodiments the device module shown in is programmed with a set of categories for each feedback sensor shown in in S spanning the total range of possible signals received from the feedback sensor shown in . For example if the feedback sensor shown in is measuring rotational position of a prosthetic joint that is capable of rotating from a zero degree 0 position to a ninety degree 90 position the set of categories may be for instance zero degrees to fifteen degrees 0 15 fifteen degrees to thirty degrees 15 30 thirty degrees to forty five degrees 30 45 forty five degrees to sixty degrees 45 60 sixty degrees to seventy five degrees 60 75 and seventy five degrees to ninety degrees 75 90 . As should be understood by those skilled in the art the number of categories in the set or categories and or the size of each category within the set of categories may be varied for each feedback sensor shown in depending upon the desired measurement precision.

The prosthetic device shown in is then operated by the user in S. While the prosthetic device shown in is in operation feedback signals from the feedback sensors shown in are transmitted to and received by the device module shown in in S. The device module shown in identifies which category of the set of categories that the feedback signal falls into in S and records the total duration of time that the at least one feedback signal is in the identified category in S. This process may continue until it is evaluated in S that the prosthetic device shown in is no longer in operation. Once the device is no longer in operation the recorded duration data may be evaluated by the technician in S.

In particular the technician may generate various plots to evaluate the total time that the particular feedback signal was in each particular category. For instance referring to a wrist rotational position histogram may be generated for a prosthetic wrist joint to evaluate an accumulated time that the wrist joint was in each position category . Similarly referring to the technician may form histograms showing accumulated time verse categories for a variety of other feedback signals from a variety of other feedback sensors including joint velocity joint loading actuator current actuator torque battery temperature or the like. For instance the prosthetic hand assembly may include position and or force sensors on various fingers allowing usage of the various grips discussed above to be evaluated.

Additionally although described in terms of a feedback sensors the device module shown in may also collect durational data with regard to the time in which the prosthetic device shown in is controlled in each of the various prosthetic control modes described herein.

This durational data collected by the device module shown in allows the technician to configure the prosthetic device shown in for each particular user. For example the technician may program the most intuitive body input signals from the IMUs and sensor shown in to be used by the device module shown in to command the most used prosthetic motions. Similarly the technician may program lesser used control modes to be commanded by less intuitive body input signals. In some cases the control system for particular users may even be customized to remove control modes that are not used by those particular users.

In addition to allowing for customization of the control system shown in the durational data may also be used to identify areas for improvement of the prosthetic device itself. For instance the durational data may indicate particular joints of the prosthetic device that are underpowered allowing them to be redesigned to provide additional power or overpowered allowing them to be redesigned to reduce weight of the prosthetic device shown in . Similarly for overpowered joints the prosthetic device shown in may be redesigned to reduce the battery power used by those joints to improve batter life. Additionally the durational data based on battery current temperature and or capacity may aid in the selection of a better battery for the prosthetic device shown in . Thus the collection of durational data by the device module shown in advantageously allows for both customization and improvement of the prosthetic device shown in .

As is discussed herein various embodiments of device modules and sensor modules as well as the control apparatus have been described. The control apparatus may be used to control a prosthetic device using one or more sensors. With respect to switch based sensors including but not limited to foot sensors and or joysticks etc. these sensors include an application of force onto the switch based sensor and a reaction force. Thus for example with respect to foot sensors the application of force by the user to a specific area e.g. location of the sensor may be necessary for the sensor to receive the signal from the user. However where there is no reaction force e.g. when the user s shoe is not against a surface the sensor may not receive the signal. Further as sensors may require the application of force on a particular point to receive a signal this may present additional difficulties. Also the application of force to a sensor may contribute to soreness or other irritation imparted onto the user by the repetition of force application on a particular point of the user s foot and or other body area.

Additionally although switch based sensors may be used in some embodiments it may be difficult for the sensors to receive signals related to multiple axes at the same time. In some embodiments for multiple axis movement the sensors may require receipt of multiple inputs regarding various axes. In some embodiments these multiple inputs may be coordinated by the user and in some embodiments multiple inputs may be received by the sensor and then coordinated by the control system for a determination of intended desired multiple axis movement i.e. user command . This may contribute to less control resolution and or may contribute to difficulty in use.

Thus it may be desirable to use at least one non switch based sensor to receive user input regarding desired intended motion of a prosthetic and or other device. As discussed herein an IMU may be used. However other non switch based sensors may be used in various embodiments. In some embodiments the non switch based sensor may include receiving input from the user regarding desired intended motion of a prosthetic of other device. In some embodiments the non switch based sensor is not reliant on force application and reaction force and or position of the sensor. These non switch based sensors may be beneficial for many reasons including but not limited to one or more of the following. The sensor may sense motion without the application of force. The sensor may receive multiple axis input with a single motion rather than multiple coordinated motions . The sensor may be placed anywhere and receive indication of intended desired movement through motion. Once placed in a position e.g. anywhere for example but not limited to connected directly or indirectly on the user a position may be zeroed and thus change in position including but not limited to rate of change of position and or the derivative of the position acceleration and or distance covered by the change in position may be used as inputs to the control system. In some embodiments a sensor that may indicate the desired and or intended direction and or speed and or position of the prosthetic and or other device may be the input. In some embodiments the sensor may include but is not limited to one or more EEG or EMG signal s from the user and or one or accelerometers and or one or more gyroscopes. In various embodiments the sensor may be any sensor that meets one or more of these stated functions and or benefits.

Therefore various embodiments of the control apparatus include directional and proportional control of a prosthetic device and or other device without reliance on one or more switches and or reaction force and without concern for position of the sensor i.e. the sensor may be zeroed or nulled out and or position is not indicative e.g. EEG and or EMG signal . Further in some embodiments rate of change etc. may be used by the system apparatus for proportional and or directional control so that in various embodiments input from the sensor may be used to command a device including but not limited to a prosthetic device.

While the principles of the invention have been described herein it is to be understood by those skilled in the art that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation as to the scope of the invention. Other embodiments are contemplated within the scope of the present invention in addition to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

