---

title: Techniques for providing improved perpetrator imaging
abstract: Techniques for providing improved perpetrator imaging are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for providing improved perpetrator imaging comprising identifying a client device as at least one of lost and stolen, detecting, on the client device, a difference in first pixel data associated with a first frame of a visual image and second pixel data associated with a second frame of the visual image, and capturing, on the client device, a plurality of photographs in response to detecting the difference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08730334&OS=08730334&RS=08730334
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08730334
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101210
---
The present disclosure relates generally to anti theft solutions and more particularly to techniques for providing improved perpetrator imaging.

The consumer and commercial use of mobile devices e.g. laptops mobile phones tablet personal computers PCs net books personal digital assistants PDAs is rapidly increasing. Likewise mobile device theft has also increased with the increase in mobile device use. Accordingly many mobile devices are manufactured with certain anti theft mechanisms. Many anti theft mechanisms currently used however operate inefficiently and are ineffective.

In view of the foregoing it may be understood that there may be significant problems and shortcomings associated with current anti theft technologies.

Techniques for providing improved perpetrator imaging are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a method for providing improved perpetrator imaging comprising identifying a client device as at least one of lost and stolen detecting on the client device a difference in first pixel data associated with a first frame of a visual image and second pixel data associated with a second frame of the visual image and capturing on the client device a plurality of photographs in response to detecting the difference.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the identifying the client device as at least one of lost and stolen further may comprise accessing client device status data stored on a server.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the detecting the difference may further comprise detecting a difference in first pixel data associated with a plurality of groups of pixels and second pixel data associated with the plurality of groups of pixels.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the detecting the difference may further comprise detecting an average difference in first pixel data associated with the plurality of groups of pixels and second pixel data associated with the plurality of groups of pixels.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the detecting the difference may further comprise detecting a difference that exceeds a predetermined threshold.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the detecting the difference may further comprise detecting a difference for a predetermined period of time.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the method may further comprise determining on the client device a confidence level for each of the plurality of photographs ranking on the client device the plurality of photographs based on the confidence level of each of the plurality of photographs and transmitting to a server one or more of the plurality of photographs with the highest rankings via a network.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the determining the confidence level may further comprise executing a face detection algorithm.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the method may further comprise determining on the client device a location value that indicates a location of a potential face in a photograph for each of the plurality of photographs.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the method may further comprise determining on the client device a size value that indicates a size of a potential face in a photograph for each of the plurality of photographs.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the ranking the plurality of photographs may further comprise ranking based on the confidence level the location value and the size value of each of the plurality of photographs.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as at least one non transitory processor readable storage medium for storing a computer program of instructions configured to be readable by at least one processor for instructing the at least one processor to execute a computer process.

In another particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as an article of manufacture for providing improved perpetrator imaging the article of manufacture comprising at least one non transitory processor readable medium and instructions stored on the at least one medium wherein the instructions are configured to be readable from the at least one medium by at least one processor and thereby cause the at least one processor to operate so as to identify a client device as at least one of lost and stolen detect on the client device a difference in first pixel data associated with a first frame of a visual image and second pixel data associated with a second frame of the visual image and capture on the client device a plurality of photographs in response to detecting the difference.

In another particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system for providing improved perpetrator imaging comprising one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network wherein the one or more processors are configured to identify a client device as at least one of lost and stolen detect on the client device a difference in first pixel data associated with a first frame of a visual image and second pixel data associated with a second frame of the visual image and capture on the client device a plurality of photographs in response to detecting the difference.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the one or more processors may be configured to identify the client device as at least one of lost and stolen by accessing client device status data stored on a server.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the one or more processors may be configured to detect the difference by detecting a difference in first pixel data associated with a plurality of groups of pixels and second pixel data associated with the plurality of groups of pixels.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the one or more processors may be configured to detect the difference by detecting an average difference in first pixel data associated with the plurality of groups of pixels and second pixel data associated with the plurality of groups of pixels.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the one or more processors may be configured to detect the difference by detecting a difference that exceeds a predetermined threshold.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the one or more processors may be configured to detect the difference by detecting a difference for a predetermined period of time.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the one or more processors may be further configured to determine on the client device a confidence level for each of the plurality of photographs rank on the client device the plurality of photographs based on the confidence level of each of the plurality of photographs and transmit to a server one or more of the plurality of photographs with the highest rankings via a network.

The present disclosure will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present disclosure is described below with reference to exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other fields of use which are within the scope of the present disclosure as described herein and with respect to which the present disclosure may be of significant utility.

Current anti theft mechanisms that operate on mobile devices e.g. laptops mobile phones tablet PCs net books PDAs may be configured to capture photographs from a camera coupled to the mobile devices in response to the mobile devices being marked as lost or stolen. Such anti theft mechanisms capture the photographs in an attempt to capture an image of a perpetrator that may be used to recover a lost or stolen mobile device. Several problems exist however with these current anti theft mechanisms. First the mobile devices may be configured to capture the photographs based on a timer e.g. capture one photograph every ten minutes . Accordingly the likelihood of capturing an image of a perpetrator may be low. Second the mobile devices may not employ any techniques to select the photographs that are most likely to contain a useful image of a perpetrator e.g. an image that contains a distinguishable face for transmission to a server e.g. an anti theft backend server . Accordingly the network resources for transmitting photographs may be inefficiently used.

In one embodiment certain techniques for providing improved perpetrator imaging are provided. In such an embodiment a mobile device may be identified as lost or stolen. Based on such an identification the mobile device may be configured to capture photographs in response to detecting a motion in the mobile device. In certain embodiments detecting such a motion may include detecting a difference in at least two frames of a visual image e.g. the capture region of a camera coupled to the mobile device. That is the mobile device may be configured to compare a first frame e.g. the state of all pixels of the visual image at a particular point in time of a visual image at a first time to a second frame e.g. the state of all pixels of the visual image at another point in time of the visual image at a second time to determine whether the two frames e.g. the pixel data associated with the two frames are sufficiently different. In other embodiments detecting such a motion may include analyzing data generated by any or a combination of an accelerometer a motion sensor and a tilt sensor.

If for example motion is detected in the mobile device a camera coupled to the mobile device may capture one or more photographs. If however motion is not detected in the mobile device the mobile device may continue to poll for data that indicates that two frames are sufficiently different.

In another embodiment other techniques for providing improved perpetrator imaging are provided. In such an embodiment a mobile device may calculate a confidence level that a face is contained in a photograph using one or more face detection algorithms. The mobile device may also rank one or more photographs based on the corresponding confidence levels. One or more photographs with the highest ranking may be transmitted to a server e.g. an anti theft backend server to reduce the amount of network resources necessary to implement the presently discussed anti theft techniques. In certain embodiments a location value that indicates a location of a potential face in a photograph and a size value that indicates a size of a potential face in a photograph may be calculated for each photograph. Accordingly the photographs may be ranked based on any or a combination of a confidence level location value and a size value.

With reference to computer system of modem network interface or some other method may be used to provide connectivity from one or more of client and client to network . Client may be able to access information on server A or server B using for example a web browser or other client software. Such a client may allow client to access data hosted by server A or server B or one of storage devices A N B N and or N .

Networks and may be local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs the Internet cellular networks satellite networks or other networks that permit communication between client client server A server B and other devices communicatively coupled to networks and . Networks and may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Networks and may utilize one or more protocols of one or more clients or servers to which they are communicatively coupled. Networks and may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although networks and are each depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments networks and may each comprise a plurality of interconnected networks.

Storage devices A N B N and or N may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to client client server A or server B. Storage devices A N B N and or N may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID magnetic tape disk a storage area network SAN an Internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS optical based storage or other computer accessible storage. Storage devices A N B N and or N may be used for backup replication or archival purposes.

According to some embodiments client and client may be a smartphone PDA desktop computer a laptop computer a server another computer or another device coupled via a wireless or wired connection to network . Client and client may receive data from user input a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface.

Server A and server B may be application servers archival platforms backup servers backend servers network storage devices media servers email servers document management platforms enterprise search servers or other devices communicatively coupled to network . Server A and server B may utilize one of storage devices A N B N and or N for the storage of application data replication data backup data or other data. Server A and server B may be hosts such as an application server which may process data traveling between client and client and a backup platform a backup process and or storage. According to some embodiments server A and server B may be platforms used for backing up and or archiving data.

Client anti theft module photograph capture module upload module and server anti theft module are discussed in further detail below.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM may be the main memory into which the operating system and application programs may be loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with computer system may be stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. For example anti theft module photograph capture module and upload module may be resident in system memory .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an Internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Code to implement the present disclosure may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . Code to implement the present disclosure may also be received via one or more interfaces and stored in memory. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 OS X UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Power manager may monitor a power level of battery . Power manager may provide one or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces to allow determination of a power level of a time window remaining prior to shutdown of computer system a power consumption rate an indicator of whether computer system is on mains e.g. AC Power or battery power and other power related information. According to some embodiments APIs of power manager may be accessible remotely e.g. accessible to a remote backup management module via a network connection . According to some embodiments battery may be an Uninterruptable Power Supply UPS located either local to or remote from computer system . In such embodiments power manager may provide information about a power level of an UPS.

The description below describes network elements computers and or components of a system and method for providing improved perpetrator imaging that may include one or more modules. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. Modules however are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on hardware firmware or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium i.e. modules are not software per se . It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

Client anti theft module may be configured to identify a client device e.g. client as lost or stolen. In one embodiment the client anti theft module may identify a client device e.g. client as lost or stolen by accessing client device status data. Client device status data may indicate a possession status e.g. lost stolen of one or more client devices. In certain embodiments the client anti theft module may access client device status data on a communicatively coupled server e.g. an anti theft backend server .

Client anti theft module may be configured to determine whether a client device e.g. client has been lost or stolen. In one embodiment the client anti theft module may determine whether a client device e.g. client has been lost or stolen based on geographic data e.g. geo sensing data global positioning system GPS data generated by or on behalf of the client device. For example the client anti theft module may determine that a client device e.g. client has been lost or stolen based on geographic data that indicates that the client device has been moved from a particular location e.g. ten feet outside of a particular office building five feet outside of a dormitory room . In another embodiment the client anti theft module may determine whether a client device e.g. client has been lost or stolen based on motion data generated by or on behalf of the client device. For example the client anti theft module may determine that a client device e.g. client has been lost or stolen based on motion data that indicates that the client device has been moved a particular distance e.g. two inches from an initial position one foot from an initial position . In another embodiment the client anti theft module may determine whether a client device e.g. client has been lost or stolen based on force data generated by or on behalf of the client device. For example the client anti theft module may determine that a client device e.g. client has been lost or stolen based on force data that indicates that a security cable attached to the client device has been removed e.g. forcefully removed .

Photograph capture module may be configured to detect motion in a client device e.g. client in response to the client device being identified as lost or stolen. In one embodiment the photograph capture module may detect motion in a client device e.g. client by detecting a difference between at least two frames of a visual image e.g. capture region of a camera coupled to the client device. In such an embodiment the photograph capture module may compare pixel data associated with a first frame of a visual image at a first time to pixel data associated with a second frame of the visual image at a second time to determine whether the two frames are sufficiently different. That is the photograph capture module may compare pixel data from two different points in time to determine whether the pixel data has changed overtime e.g. motion in the client device is detected .

In certain embodiments the photograph capture module may determine that a sufficient difference exists between two frames if the average difference in pixel data of groups of pixels exceeds a predetermined threshold e.g. a predetermined amount of difference . For example a threshold may be determined to be 25 based on design preferences. Accordingly if the pixel data changes in at least an average of 25 of pixels between two frames the photograph capture module may determine that a sufficient difference exists between the two frames and motion is detected.

In certain embodiments the photograph capture module may determine that a sufficient difference exists if the predetermined amount of difference in pixel data exist between multiple frames for a predetermined period of time. For example an amount of difference threshold may be determined to be 25 and a period of time may be determined to be one second based on design preferences. Accordingly if the pixel data changes in at least an average of 25 of pixels between multiple frames for at least one second the photograph capture module may determine that a sufficient difference exists between the multiple frames and motion is detected.

In another embodiment the photograph capture module may detect motion in a client device e.g. client by accessing and analyzing data generated by any or a combination of an accelerometer a motion sensor and a tilt sensor. That is the photograph capture module may determine that motion is detected in client device e.g. client if data generated by an accelerometer a motion sensor or a tilt sensor coupled to the client device exceeds one or more predetermined thresholds.

In response to motion being detected in a client device e.g. client the photograph capture module may be configured to capture one or more photographs using a camera coupled to the client device. In one embodiment the photograph capture module may capture a sequence of photographs in response to motion being detected in the client device. In another embodiment the photograph capture module may capture one or more photographs based on a predetermined interval e.g. capture five photographs every five seconds capture one photograph every other second in response to motion being detected in the client device.

Photograph capture module may be configured to calculate a confidence level a location value and a size value for each photograph captured. In one embodiment the photograph capture module may calculate a confidence level that a face is contained in a photograph for each photograph captured by executing one or more face detection algorithms. The face detection algorithms executed by the photograph capture module may include any or a combination of a face detection as a pattern classification task algorithm e.g. implementing binary pattern classification task a controlled background face detection algorithm e.g. removing plain or static backgrounds to reveal and detect a face a color face detection algorithm e.g. using skin color to find face segments a motion face detection algorithm e.g. detecting specific types of motions that are unique to faces such as blinking raised eyebrows flared nostrils wrinkled forehead opened mouth and a model based face detection algorithm e.g. passing models of faces over images to detect faces .

In another embodiment the photograph capture module may calculate a location value that indicates a location of a potential face e.g. by distance that is contained in a photograph for each photograph captured by executing the one or more face detection algorithms described above. For example a first location value associated with a first captured photograph may indicate that a potential face was located approximately 100 feet from the camera during capture. In another example a second location value associated with a second captured photograph may indicate that a potential face was located approximately two feet from the camera during capture.

In another embodiment the photograph capture module may calculate a size value that indicates a size of a potential face e.g. by height and width by circumference that is contained in a photograph for each photograph captured by executing the one or more face detection algorithms described above. For example a first size value associated with a first captured photograph may indicate that a potential face had a height of two centimeters and a width of one centimeter during capture. In another example a second size value associated with a second captured photograph may indicate that a potential face had a height of eight inches and a width of five inches during capture.

Photograph capture module may be configured to rank each photograph captured based on any or a combination of a corresponding confidence level a corresponding location value and a corresponding size value. Accordingly the photographs with the highest confidence levels the shortest location values and the largest size values may be ranked the highest. Furthermore the photographs with the lowest confidence levels the longest location values the smallest size values may be ranked the lowest. The photograph capture module may select and transmit one or more of the photographs with the highest rankings to a server e.g. an anti theft backend server to aid in the recovery of the lost or stolen client device.

Upload module may be configured to transmit the selected photographs to a server e.g. an anti theft backend server . In one embodiment the upload module may be configured to detect when a client device e.g. client is connected to a network e.g. the Internet . In response to detecting network connectivity the upload module may transmit the selected photographs to the server e.g. an anti theft backend server .

The description below describes network elements computers and or components of a system and method for providing improved perpetrator imaging that may include one or more modules. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. Modules however are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on hardware firmware or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium i.e. modules are not software per se . It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

Lost stolen identification module may be configured to store client device status data associated with multiple communicatively coupled client devices e.g. client . Client device status data may indicate a possession status e.g. lost stolen of one or more client devices. Accordingly as a client device is reported as lost or stolen the lost stolen identification module may update the appropriate client device status data.

Photograph receipt module may be configured to receive one or more photographs from one or more communicatively coupled client devices e.g. client client that have been identified as lost or stolen. In certain embodiments the photograph receipt module may store the photographs received for use in recovering the lost or stolen client device.

Based on pixel data from two consecutive frames the black pixels may be considered changed while the white pixels may be considered unchanged. As shown pixel group may have a 33 pixel difference pixel group may have a 67 pixel difference pixel group may have a 44 pixel difference pixel group may have a 78 pixel difference pixel group may have a 44 pixel difference pixel group may have a 56 pixel difference pixel group may have a 56 pixel difference pixel group may have a 44 pixel difference and pixel group may have a 56 pixel difference. Based on these pixel differences the average pixel difference between two consecutive frames for pixel groups may be 53 . If for example the predetermined amount of difference is 25 the difference in pixel data between two consecutive frames represented in may be sufficiently different for motion in a client device to be detected.

At block a client device may be identified as at least one of lost and stolen. In one embodiment a client device may be identified as lost or stolen by accessing client device status data stored on a communicatively coupled server e.g. an anti theft backend server .

At block a difference in first pixel data associated with a first frame of a visual image and second pixel data associated with a second from of the visual image is detected on the client device. The first frame may be taken at a first time and the second frame may be taken at a second time. Detecting such a difference may indicate motion in a client device.

At block a plurality of photographs may be captured on the client device in response to detecting the difference. In one embodiment a sequence of multiple photographs may be captured on the client device in response to detecting the difference. In another embodiment one or more photographs may be captured based on a predetermined interval e.g. five photographs every five seconds one photograph every other second in response to detecting the difference.

At block a plurality of photographs may be captured on a client device in response to identifying the client device as at least one of lost and stolen. In one embodiment a sequence of multiple photographs may be captured on the client device in response to detecting the difference. In another embodiment one or more photographs may be captured based on a predetermined interval e.g. five photographs every five seconds one photograph every other second in response to detecting the difference.

At block a confidence level that a photograph contains a face is determined for each of the plurality of photographs on the client device. In one embodiment a confidence level is determined for each of the plurality of photographs by executing one or more face detection algorithms.

At block the plurality of photographs are ranked based on the confidence level of each of the plurality of photographs on the client device. In one embodiment the photographs with the highest confidence levels are ranked the highest while the photographs with the lowest confidence levels are ranked the lowest.

At block one or more of the plurality of photographs with the highest rankings are transmitted to a server. In one embodiment the one or more photographs with the highest confidence level rankings are transmitted to a backend server e.g. an anti theft backend server .

At this point it should be noted that providing improved perpetrator imaging in accordance with the present disclosure as described above typically involves the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a server anti theft module or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with providing improved perpetrator imaging in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with instructions may implement the functions associated with providing improved perpetrator imaging in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more processor readable storage media e.g. a magnetic disk or other storage medium or transmitted to one or more processors via one or more signals embodied in one or more carrier waves.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed other various embodiments of and modifications to the present disclosure in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Further although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present disclosure as described herein.

