---

title: High-priority communications sessions within a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a call originator sends, to an application server, a request to initiate a given communication session with at least one call target, the received request configured to indicate to the application server that the given communication session is associated with a high-priority. The application server configures a call announcement to force the at least one call target to accept the given communication session, and transmits the configured call announcement to the at least one call target. The at least one call target receives the call announcement, and determines that the call announcement is configured to force the given access terminal to accept the given communication session. Responsive to the determination, the at least one call target transmits an acknowledgment to the call announcement that indicates that the at least one call target has accepted the given communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738058&OS=08738058&RS=08738058
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08738058
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100330
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 167 077 entitled EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION SESSIONS WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Apr. 6 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present application is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 12 502 036 entitled PRIORITIZATION OF GROUP COMMUNICATIONS AT A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE filed on Jul. 13 2009 and U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 12 728 489 entitled SELECTIVELY ALLOCATING DATA CHANNEL RESOURCES TO WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Mar. 22 2010 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate to high priority communication sessions within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

In addition to various transmission schemes e.g. unicast multicast broadcast that may be used generally a PTT or PTT over Cellular PoC call corresponds to a server mediated communication between two or more identified access terminals regardless of the various configurations used to conduct the PTT calls. Further conventionally a PTT calls are initiated and maintained by a physical interaction at the access terminal e.g. pressing and holding a key .

In an embodiment a call originator sends to an application server a request to initiate a given communication session with at least one call target. The received request configured is to indicate to the application server that the given communication session is associated with a high priority. If necessary the application server can reduce its load and or preempt one or more other users or other sessions to support the given communication session. The application server configures a call announcement to force the at least one call target to accept the given communication session and transmits the configured call announcement to the at least one call target. The at least one call target receives the call announcement and determines that the call announcement is configured to force the given access terminal to accept the given communication session. Responsive to the determination the at least one call target transmits an acknowledgment to the call announcement that indicates that the at least one call target has accepted the given communication session.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile e.g. wireless or stationary e.g. a wired client such as a dispatch console and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between ATs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the ATs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In a conventional server arbitrated communication session e.g. via half duplex protocols full duplex protocols VoIP a group session over IP unicast a group session over IP multicast a push to talk PTT session a push to transfer PTX session etc. the application server which is responsible for arbitrating the communication session receives a request to initiate a communication session and attempts to find a host computer e.g. MCC B with sufficient available resources to host the exchange of media for the communication session. If a host computer due to resource unavailability the communication session cannot be set up. Also even if a suitable host computer is selected and an announce session for announcing the communication session to at least one target e.g. a single target for a direct call or multiple targets for a group call is transmitted there is no guarantee that the target will actually accept the call. For example the least one target can be configured to auto reject the call if the at least one target is already engaged in another communication session. Alternatively even if the at least one target does not auto reject the call a user of the at least one target may simply choose to ignore the announced communication session. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the uncertainty regarding session resource availability and target acceptance can make setting up a high priority e.g. emergency call difficult to accomplish.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to setting up and conducting a high priority e.g. emergency server arbitrated communication sessions within the wireless communications system . illustrates a server arbitrated high priority communication session set up process in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The high priority communication session established in may correspond to any type of server arbitrated session including but not limited to a full duplex VoIP session a half duplex group session e.g. push to talk PTT or push to transfer PTX supported either via IP unicasting such that the RAN is instructed to transmit the forwarded media on a downlink dedicated channel to separately to each target AT or via IP multicasting protocols such that the RAN is instructed to transmit the forwarded media on a downlink shared channel in at least one sector of the wireless communications system potentially to multiple target ATs within the at least one sector at the same time wherein a single group member holds the floor at any given time a full duplex group session a hybrid duplex or fast full duplex group session wherein more than one group member and less than all group members can simultaneously talk and listen at any given time.

Referring to the operations performed at AT are performed at a multimedia client A where the multimedia client A corresponds to an API among APIs as described with respect to AT of . The multimedia client A is responsible for managing multimedia communication sessions at AT .

Accordingly referring to assume that the multimedia client A of AT receives user input that indicates the user of AT wishes to initiate a high priority communication session . For example the user input received in may correspond to the user pressing a dedicated physical button or soft key for making high priority calls. In an alternative example the user input received in may correspond to the user requesting a session to a target AT known by the multimedia client A to be associated with emergencies e.g. 911 a fire department s phone number etc. . In another alternative example the user input received in may correspond to the user requesting a normal priority or non emergency call along with a secondary indication or input that specifies that the call should be placed as high priority and or an emergency. For example the secondary indication may correspond to the user double tapping the call button when placing the high priority call holding the call button or send button for more than a threshold period of time e.g. 3 seconds when placing the call holding the call button and another button at the same time when the call is placed selecting a high priority and or an emergency option from a pull down menu or other menu in a call set up screen on the display of AT speaking the words high priority and or the word emergency or some other high priority indicating word while voice dialing and or any combination thereof.

After determining that a session to be initiated by AT is intended to be a high priority session in the multimedia client A of AT configures a call message to request initiation of a high priority communication session . For example the configuration of may correspond to generating a standard call message to the selected target s and then modifying one or more fields of the standard call message to convey to the application server that AT is attempting to initiate a high priority communication session. In an example the field may indicate a highest of a plurality of priority levels with the highest priority level corresponding to an emergency priority level. In another example the field may be binary such that a first field setting corresponds to a high priority or emergency call and a second field setting corresponds to a regular priority or non emergency call. For example the modified field of the call message may correspond to a Diffsery Code Point DSCP value in a header portion of the call message. Alternatively as discussed above it is possible that the identification of one or more of the selected target s for the communication session are sufficient to inform the application server of the session s high priority status e.g. 911 a fire department s phone number etc. . In this case the multimedia client A need not additionally modify the call message if the target selection by itself is sufficient to convey the high priority status.

After the configuration of AT transmits the configured call message to the RAN not shown in this figure which then forwards the configured call message to a given regional dispatcher A of the application server . The application server acknowledges receipt of the call message by transmitting an ACK message back to AT . The regional dispatcher A evaluates the call message and determines that the call is a high priority call e.g. by checking the DSCP value in the header of the call packet and then locates each of target ATs . . . N e.g. the regional dispatcher A determines if the target ATs are registered with the application server and if so obtains their respective IP addresses also e.g. for a group communication session N 2 and for a non group session such as a VoIP full duplex one to one session N 2 selects a vocoder for the high priority communication session and selects one of the plurality of MCCs B to handle or host the high priority communication session . The regional dispatcher A then generates an announce message to announce the high priority communication session to the target ATs . . . N and configures the announce message to indicate to the target ATs . . . N that the communication session is a high priority communication session . In an example similar to the configured call message from the announce message can be configured to include a field that indicates a highest of a plurality of priority levels with the highest priority level corresponding to an emergency priority level and or a binary field such that a first field setting corresponds to a high priority or emergency call and a second field setting corresponds to a regular priority or non emergency call. As described above with respect to the call message the field used to convey high priority status may correspond to the DSCP field in a header portion of the announce message. The regional dispatcher A then forwards the configured announce message to the RAN not shown in this figure for transmission to ATs . . . N .

Next assume that target ATs . . . N receive the configured announce message from . In each of target ATs . . . N determine that the announce message is announcing a high priority session and further determine whether its respective multimedia client A is busy e.g. engaged in another session . If the multimedia client A of the target ATs . . . N determine the multimedia client A is not busy in each of target ATs auto accept the announced high priority session by sending an announce ACK accept message to the application server . Otherwise if the multimedia client A of the target ATs . . . N determines the multimedia client A is busy in the multimedia client A notifies a multimedia user interface UI that a high priority session has been announced and then auto accepts the announced high priority session by sending an announce ACK accept message to the application server . In an example the notification of may correspond to a user notification that the user s current session will be cut off within a threshold period of time e.g. 1 second 3 seconds etc. so that the user at least has the opportunity to say goodbye to one or more other parties of the user s current session. Alternatively in another example the notification may notify the user of the target ATs . . . N that the user s current session is going to be cut off and transferred to a high priority call but does not actually permit the user of the target ATs . . . N time to send any additional media related to the user s current session.

While illustrates each of target ATs . . . N auto accepting the announced high priority communication session irrespective of whether the respective target is already engaged in a communication session it will be appreciated that a different call join policy can be implemented if the targets ATs . . . N are engaged in another high priority session. In this case the users of target ATs . . . N may not necessarily want to preempt a current high priority session for another high priority session. For example if a doctor is in the middle of providing instructions over the phone related to a remote medical procedure in a first high priority session it may be counter productive to transfer the doctor automatically to another emergency for which that the doctor may not necessarily be able to offer assistance. Accordingly in the case that one or more of the target ATs . . . N is engaged in another high priority communication session the user s of respective target AT s may be given the option with regard to whether to accept the announced high priority session in at least one embodiment e.g. instead of simply auto accepting the new high priority session and disconnecting from the old high priority session .

Upon receiving the announce ACK accept message from a first of ATs . . . N first responder the regional dispatcher A sends a floor grant message at least to AT to prompt a user of AT to begin buffering media for eventual transmission to the application server for forwarding to the target ATs . . . N. As will be appreciated if the high priority communication session is established as a full duplex session the target ATs . . . N are also given the opportunity to forward media to the other call participant s .

AT receives the floor grant message from the regional dispatcher A and acknowledges receipt of the floor grant message with an ACK message . The multimedia client A then instructs AT to play a tone to inform a user of AT to begin inputting media e.g. voice data and the multimedia client A buffers the media input by the user of AT . Upon receiving the floor grant ACK from AT the regional dispatcher A instructs the MCC B selected in to begin hosting the communication session as a high priority session .

In the selected MCC B determines whether it has sufficient call resources available to support the high priority communication session . If the MCC B determines that sufficient resources are not available in the MCC B selectively reduces its current call resource load in . For example the call resource load reduction may correspond to dropping one or more currently active calls and or one or more current call participants supported by the MCC B.

The MCC B can select the call resources for load reduction in in a number of different ways. For example the MCC B can evaluate a level of call resources expected to be necessary to support the high priority communication session and can then drop calls in an order of lowest priority to highest priority until the MCC B has freed a sufficient level of call resources to support the high priority communication session. The priority allocations of the calls or the order by which the MCC B will selective drop calls can be determined in different ways. For example other high priority communication sessions already hosted by the MCC B may be allocated a highest possible priority ranking calls that have been taking place for more than a threshold period of time may be allocated a lower priority than comparable calls of shorter duration. In an alternative example calls involving large groups of ATs may be allocated a lower priority than small group calls or one to one calls because more call resources can be acquired through the sacrifice of a single call. In other examples the priority ranking may be established such that a lowest number of calls are dropped or such that a lowest number of call participants are dropped. As will be appreciated the above noted priority rankings are only examples and there are many different ways by which the MCC B can drop currently allocated call resources in order to reserve a given level of call resources for the high priority communication session.

After the MCC B either i determines a sufficient level of call resources to be available for the high priority communication session in or ii reduces a current call resource allocation such that the sufficient level of call resources is obtained the MCC B then sends media control unit MCU information to call originator and current floor holder AT as well as target ATs . . . N . The MCU is a software process or instance that handles a single instance for a call or communication session and the MCU information corresponds to a contact message and includes the IP address and port number regarding where floor holders are to forward media for re transmission to other session participant s during the high priority communication session e.g. as in below or signaling messages such as ACKs e.g. as in and or below .

AT receives the MCU information from the MCC B and acknowledges receipt of the MCU information with an ACK message . Also upon receiving the MCU information from the MCC B the multimedia client A begins transmitting the buffered media to the MCC B which in turn buffers the media forwarded from AT . Next the MCC B waits to receive at least one ACK from target ATs . . . N to the MCU information transmitted in . In an example the MCC B can wait for a first MCU information ACK from any of target ATs . . . N and can then begin forwarding the buffered media. In alternative example the MCC B can wait for MCU information ACKs from a given percentage of target ATs . . . N e.g. of each target to which the announce message was sent in or of each target that accepted the call in before forwarding any of the buffered media. In another alternative example the MCC B can wait for MCU information ACKs from each of target ATs . . . N e.g. of each target to which the announce message was sent in or of each target that accepted the call in such that the given percentage equals 100 before forwarding any of the buffered media e.g. if it is important for each target AT to receive the full media flow . In any case one or more ACKs from target ATs . . . N are received at the MCC B in . When the number of MCU information ACKs from the target ATs . . . N satisfies a given threshold e.g. a first MCU information ACK is received a MCU information ACK is received from each target AT to have accepted the call in a given percentage of target ATs . . . N that accepted the call in etc. the MCC B forwards the buffered media to target ATs . . . N . Also while the MCU ACKs are illustrated as arriving at the MCC B in if a sufficient number of MCU ACKs e.g. one from target ATs . . . N arrive at the MCC B before media begins arriving from AT it will be appreciated that the buffering of block can be skipped and the MCC B can begin forwarding the media from AT to ATs . . . N as soon as it is received.

While not shown in if the high priority communication session is established as full duplex or hybrid duplex one or more of target ATs . . . N can also send media to the application to be forwarded to the call originator AT and or to other session participants. Accordingly if the high priority communication session in is established as a full duplex communication session involving two call parties e.g. a VoIP session or a full duplex group communication session involving three or more call parties e.g. a group PTT call it will be appreciated that each call participant e.g. including the call originator has a traffic channel TCH by which to send media to the RAN that is forwarded to the application server for re transmission to at least one other call participant. Accordingly in a full duplex session arbitrated by the application server each call participant can send media e.g. voice data or other audio data and each call participant receives either i the media from the other party for a full duplex communication session involving two call parties or ii a mixed version of media from each other party minus its own media for a group full duplex communication session including three or more parties. Thus if ATs and are conducting a full duplex call AT receives AT s media and AT receives AT s media. If ATs and are conducting a full duplex group call AT receives a mixed version of AT and AT s media AT 3 media AT receives a mixed version of AT and AT s media AT 3 media and AT receives a mixed version of AT and AT s media AT 2 media .

Alternatively it is possible that if the high priority communication session in is established as a half duplex communication session AT can begin the high priority communication session as a sole floor holder speaking to at least one target AT while the at least one target AT does not have its own TCH for transmitting media to be sent back to the call originator. Normally in a half duplex communication session when a target AT wants to send media to one or more other call participants the target AT requests the floor and speaks once the floor is granted with only one call participant holding the floor at any given time. In a hybrid duplex communication session more than one floor holder may have permission to speak.

In the case of a high priority communication session it can sometimes be undesirable to have the floor transferred away from the call originator. For example the nature of the emergency can change during the duration of the high priority communication session and an emergency responder will be unaware of this change unless the communication link from the call originator is kept open. At the same time it can also be important for emergency responders to send information back to the call originator and or to other emergency responders monitoring the call. Accordingly illustrate examples of how a given target AT can send media back to a call originator and or one or more other target ATs during a half duplex or hybrid duplex group communication session. While is described with respect to a group communication session can be modified to accommodate a non group session that only involves ATs and simply by omitting the blocks directed to ATs . . . N.

Further the illustrations of and their descriptions have been simplified such that specific reference to the multimedia clients A the regional dispatcher A and the MCC B has been omitted. Instead refer simply to ATs . . . N and the application server . However it will be readily apparent how the different components contained within the broader elements referred to in are involved in the processes described below.

Thus referring to assume that the process of has executed and that a high priority communication session has been established as either i a half duplex group communication session with AT as the floor holder or ii a hybrid duplex group communication session wherein AT and at least one and less than all of ATs . . . N share the floor. Thus AT forwards media e.g. voice data to the application server A and the application server forwards AT s media to ATs . . . N A. While not illustrated in explicitly if the high priority communication session corresponds to a hybrid duplex group communication session and none of the floor holders other than AT are talking then silence frames can also be forwarded from the other floor holders in A.

In A and A ATs . . . N determine whether to send media to AT . For convenience of explanation assume that ATs . . . N determine not to send media in A and ATs . . . N continue to monitor AT s media for the high priority communication session A. Further assume that AT determines to send media back to AT in A. AT continues to monitor AT s media for the high priority communication session A and obtains a TCH e.g. by sending a ConnectionRequest message to the RAN and receiving a TCH assignment A. It will be appreciated that AT may already have obtained the TCH and if so block A can be skipped at this point.

AT then sends media over a reverse link of the TCH R TCH to the RAN to be forwarded to the application server A. If the high priority communication session was initially a hybrid duplex group communication session with both ATs and granted the floor it will be appreciated that AT can simply send the media to the application server at this point because AT already shares the floor. Otherwise if the high priority communication session was initially a hybrid duplex group communication session and AT did not share the floor or the high priority communication session was initially a half duplex group communication session with only AT having the floor AT may first request the floor from the application server before sending media in A. In this case the application server may elect to maintain AT s floor while also grant the floor to AT such that the resultant communication session either remains hybrid duplex or transitions to hybrid duplex from half duplex. In any case once AT obtains the floor AT begins transferring media to the application server for transmission to AT A. The decision with regard to whether to transition an initial half duplex communication session into a hybrid duplex communication session can be made by one of the targets e.g. a target can request to talk also and the rest of the group including the originator will receive the media from the requesting target .

The application server mixes the input streams of the media from AT and AT A. In the example of assume that the mixing of A establishes an output stream such that AT receives media frames from AT and ATs . . . N each receive media frames from AT . Accordingly the media frames from AT are forwarded to ATs . . . N and the media frames from AT are forwarded to AT A.

However the mixing of A can be performed in a different manner as illustrated in . In B through B correspond to A through A of FIG. A respectively and as such a further description of B through B has been omitted for the sake of brevity.

In B the application server mixes the media streams or frames from ATs and B such that AT receives AT s media frames AT receives AT s media frames and ATs . . . N each receive a mixed version of media frames from ATs and . Mixing media frames is well known in the art and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity e.g. the mixing of B is similar in some respects to mixing that occurs in full duplex except the mixing of B is limited to media frames from ATs and instead of involving media frames from all of ATs . . . N . Accordingly in B the media frames from AT are forwarded to AT the media frames from AT are forwarded to AT and a mixed version of the media frames from ATs and are forwarded to ATs . . . N.

Accordingly as will be appreciated with respect to it is possible to maintain AT a floor holder while also permitting one or more other target ATs to send media either to the whole group or back to AT separately.

It will be appreciated that the above described high priority communication sessions can be implemented via IP multicasting protocols and or IP unicasting protocols. For example the media transmitted by the application server at of can be sent to the target ATs . . . N individually via IP unicast. In another example the media transmitted by the application server can be sent to the RAN via IP multicast for transmission to ATs . . . N such that two or more of ATs . . . N can potentially be tuned to the same downlink multicast channel in the same sector for receiving the media from AT .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

