---

title: System and method for an automated validation system
abstract: An automated validation system validates whether a property of a policyholder receiving at least one insurance benefit is currently receiving remote monitoring services, as represented by the policyholder. The system includes an application server, a trusted third party server, and a business logic computer. The application server requests the trusted third party server to validate whether the property of the policyholder is presently receiving remote monitoring services from a service provider. A business logic computer can adjust the policyholder's insurance policy based on the received validation results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460471&OS=09460471&RS=09460471
owner: Hartford Fire Insurance Company
number: 09460471
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101215
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 365 180 filed on Jul. 16 2010 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In general the invention relates to the field of validation systems and their use for determining insurance policy adjustments. More specifically the invention relates to validating whether an insurance company s policyholders who are receiving certain insurance benefits as set forth in their insurance policies because of their use of remote monitoring services in fact are presently receiving such services.

Insurance companies generally offer benefits to policyholders whose properties are receiving monitoring services from a remote monitoring service provider based on the reduction in the risk such services provide. These benefits are typically defined in a policyholder s insurance policy which are adjusted when there are changes to the benefits the policyholder receives. One such benefit is premium discounts which can be as much as 20 of the non discounted premium. However recent underwriting reviews have determined that many policyholders who are receiving such benefits no longer receive remote monitoring services contrary to the information they had initially provided to the insurance company. This is not surprising given that many policyholders cancel their remote monitoring services after they obtain an insurance policy yet fail to timely inform the insurance company of such a cancellation. However policyholders without such remote monitoring services should not receive or continue to receive the benefits because the risks associated with their properties are in fact not reduced. Conversely there are policyholders who have recently installed such a monitoring system and should therefore be given appropriate benefits.

Thus there exists a need for an efficient system that can repeatedly validate whether a policyholder s property is currently being monitored by a remote monitoring services provider so that an insurance company can use such a system to determine an adjustment to the policyholder s insurance policy.

Additionally because different policyholders may use different types of remote monitoring services covering various aspects of his her property to differing degrees there also exists a need for a system that can determine a policyholder s policy adjustment based on the type and scope of coverage of the remote monitoring services the policyholder s property is receiving.

Allowing policyholders to continue to receive benefits after they have canceled their monitoring services reduces the incentive of the policyholders to continue their services with the service provider. At the same time insurance companies and service providers generally do not want to share data with each other for various reasons such as to protect the privacy of their policyholders to protect the value of their customer lists etc. Therefore there exists a further need for a secure validation system to allow an insurance company and service providers to validate information provided by their respective customers without sharing each other s data or with a minimum amount of data sharing or exchange.

A system and method are disclosed herein for an automated validation system for repeatedly validating whether a property of a policyholder receiving an insurance benefit is presently receiving remote monitoring services as claimed by the policyholder.

The system comprises an application server in communication with a trusted third party server and a business logic computer. The application server obtains information from a database information about at least one policyholder who is responsible for at least one property covered under a property insurance policy offered by an insurance company. A portion of the information indicates that the at least one property of the at least one policyholder is receiving remote monitoring services from a service provider. The application server requests the trusted third party to validate whether the at least one property of the at least one policyholder is currently receiving remote monitoring services from the service provider. The application server stores the validation results in the database. The business logic computer determines an insurance policy adjustment given to the at least one policyholder based at least in part on the validation results stored in the database.

In some embodiments the validation results include information about a type and a scope of coverage of remote monitoring services that the property is receiving. The policy adjustment comprises one of a change insurability of the property policy premium discount deductible and dividend. The system further comprises a communication interface configured to notify the policyholder of the policy adjustment via at least one of mail email text messages a web based application and telephone calls. The business logic computer is hosted on a same computer system as the application server. Based at least in part on the validation results the business logic computer can determine a monetary penalty for the policyholder. The trusted third party server can prevent the insurance company and the service provider from exchanging their respective customer lists. The system further comprises a sensor data collection system configured to receive sensor data associated with the remote monitoring services. The sensor data collection system can communicate with the application server. The application server also communicates with an emergency service provider.

According to one aspect the method comprises obtaining by an application server from a database information about at least one policyholder who is responsible for at least one property covered under a property insurance policy offered by an insurance company wherein a portion of the information indicates that at least one property of the at least one policyholder is receiving remote monitoring services from a service provider. The method also comprises requesting by the application server a trusted third party server to validate whether the policyholder is receiving remote monitoring services from the service provider. The method further comprises storing by the application server in the database validation results received from the trusted third party. The method finally comprises determining by a business logic computer in communication with the application server an insurance policy adjustment given to the policyholder based at least in part on the validation results stored in the database.

According to yet another aspect the invention relates to a non transitory computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions which when executed by a processor cause the processor to carry out the method and system functionality described above.

According to a further aspect the system described above can validate whether a policyholder of an insurance company is receiving remote monitoring services without a trusted third party. The application server can communicate with a service provider server directly to perform the validation without revealing the identity of the policyholder to the service provider. The application server stores validation results in an insurance company s database. In some embodiments the application server requests from the service provider server a hashed list of customers of the service provider who are receiving remote monitoring services for their properties. The validation results include at least a comparison between the hashed list of customers of the service provider and a hashed list of policyholders of the insurance company presently receiving at least one insurance benefit due to their usage of remote monitoring services for their properties.

To provide an overall understanding of the invention certain illustrative embodiments will now be described including a system and method for automated repeated validation of information provided by a policyholder for determining insurance discounts. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the systems and methods described herein may be adapted and modified as is appropriate for the application being addressed and that the systems and methods described herein may be employed in other suitable applications and that such other additions and modifications will not depart from the scope thereof.

A property as used herein may be any personal assets or residential commercial or public property and its associated building structures and grounds. Examples of a property include without limitation a home and its associated grounds an apartment complex a condominium building an office building aircrafts boats yachts and ships. A policyholder as used herein refers to both a potential customer and a current customer of an insurance company.

Insurance companies offer various kinds of insurance benefits to policyholders to encourage them to receive remote monitoring services for their properties. Any change related to the policyholder s use of remote monitoring services may trigger a change in the benefits that the policyholder receives which may cause the insurance company to adjust the policyholder s insurance policy. To simplify discussions the following descriptions are largely made in connection with adjusting insurance policies by adjusting policy premium discounts offered to policyholders based on information related to their use of remote monitoring services.

After determining a base premium the insurance company determines an initial discount for each policyholder step . The discount in one implementation is a fixed discount. In another implementation the discount is a variable discount determined for example to be a fraction of a particular coverage included in the policy or a fraction of a premium associated with a corresponding peril covered by the policy etc. Such a determination can be based on information submitted by a policyholder using forms available on a web page see . Alternatively or additionally a policyholder and or an insurance agent can provide information to an insurance company via other forms of communication such as without limitation telephone calls postal mail or in person communications. Examples of information that may be provided by a policyholder for determining premium discounts are illustrated in and may include for example identification of a central monitoring service or the election of a policy that includes multiple coverages including e.g. auto and homeowners and personal umbrella coverage.

Frequently information which led to a policyholder s initial discount changes. For example a policyholder who obtained monitoring services when applied for a policy may cancel the services during the term of the policy. Accordingly the insurance company on a regular or irregular basis validates or verifies the information that led to the initial discounts. For example the insurance company may validate the information daily weekly bi monthly monthly quarterly at the end or beginning of every insurance term randomly or intermittently. To do so the insurance company receives validation results about its policyholders use of remote monitoring services from either a service provider or a trusted third party step . Based on the received validation results the insurance company determines if a policyholder s initial discount should be adjusted step .

If the received validation results indicate that a policyholder s remote monitoring services status has since changed the insurance company either reduces or increases the policyholder s initial discounts based on the change or other current information related to the policyholder s remote monitoring services step . A reduction of an initial discount could result in the insurance company withdrawing the discount completely offering a lesser amount of discount or imposing a monetary penalty. A policyholder who was previously not offered any discount but is currently receiving monitoring services for his her property may be awarded a premium discount. Once changes are determined the insurance company updates data stored in its database to reflect these changes. In some embodiments once the monitoring services are canceled the insurance company also lowers a policyholder s coverage limit as equipment such as monitoring sensors associated with the remote monitoring services would no longer be covered thereby reducing the inventory of goods covered under the policyholder s current policy.

After updating a policyholder s insurance premium or premium discount the insurance company informs a policyholder of his her updated premium amount step . The policyholder may be notified via email or via an online account with the insurance company. In other implementations to ensure the receipt of the notification the insurance company may notify the policyholder of the change in premium or discount via a postal mail email or SMS.

If the received validation results confirm the information previously stored in the insurance company s database a policyholder s initial discount remains unchanged for that validation cycle step . In some embodiments a policyholder can receive an additional discount for keeping his her information up to date with the insurance company.

In addition to indicating whether a policyholder is still receiving remote monitoring services validation results may also include information regarding for example the type of remote monitoring services that a policyholder is presently receiving for his her insured property which may also change from time to time. Different types of remote monitoring services offer various kinds of security protection some are of a higher security level than others and some offer more comprehensive protections than others. In addition different services also employ different kinds of technology which offer different levels of safety to the insured properties. For example some remote monitoring services for protecting against burglary use window alarms for detecting break ins while other services use laser sensors implemented around the premises of a property. Validation results that the insurance company receives may also include information about the technology used as part of a policyholder s remote monitoring services to allow the insurance company to better determine a policyholder s premium discount such that a policyholder with more advanced remote monitoring services or technology receives a greater discount than policyholders with less advanced remote monitoring services.

In some implementations as mentioned above the discount that a policyholder receives may be a variable discount determined to be a fraction of a premium associated with a corresponding peril covered by the policy. Using a home owner s insurance as an example a policyholder s policy may cover perils such as theft. If a policyholder s property is receiving active anti theft remote monitoring services for preventing insurance losses associated with theft the premium discount that the policyholder receives may be a fraction of the portion of the premium that the policyholder is paying for covering the theft peril. Determining a discount based on potential insurance losses that a policyholder s remote monitoring service can prevent encourages the policyholder to continue with the same service as the benefits of having such a service are now more apparent to the policyholder. Other perils that may be covered under a property insurance policy include without limitation fire lightning explosion implosion aircraft damage storm flood and landslide.

The discount may vary based on other factors as well. For example an insurance company may determine a discount for a policyholder based on utilization data related to the policyholder s use of remote monitoring services. Such data may indicate how frequently the policyholder activates the monitoring system conducts maintenance check ups on the system and or any other information about how such services are being utilized by the policyholder. This way policyholders who more frequently activate their monitoring systems for example receive a greater discount. An insurance company can obtain utilization data directly from a service provider or from a third party data provider or by driving from its internal system.

In addition to using information about the property s remote monitoring services for determining a discount an insurance company may also vary a policyholder s discount based on information about the neighborhood in which a policyholder s property is located. Such neighborhood information may include for example the neighborhood s crime rate average income of all the households in the neighborhood average property value and demographics of people residing in the neighborhood. Doing so allows the insurance company to more fairly assess potential insurance risks associated with a policyholder s property which in turn allows the insurance company to more fairly determine a policy premium or premium discount for the policyholder. For example a high crime neighborhood tends to have higher risks of burglary in comparison to a low crime neighborhood. Therefore for high crime neighborhoods receipt of remote monitoring services may provide a greater benefit than receipt of such services in low crime neighborhoods. To encourage the use of remote monitoring services in a high crime neighborhood policyholders living in a high crime neighborhood with remote monitoring services may receive a greater premium discount than policyholders in a low crime neighborhood. In addition the discount may vary based on the number or percentage of properties in a neighborhood receiving monitoring services. A property located in a neighborhood with a greater usage of remote monitoring services receives a greater discount as this neighborhood characteristic further deters theft in the neighborhood. It also has the added benefit of encouraging further use of such services in the neighborhood improving all residents safety.

In some embodiments an insurance company provides policyholders belonging to the same neighborhood apartments building condominiums building or office building with information related to the use of remote monitoring services in their neighborhood. For example policyholders may receive information about the total number of households or companies belonging to their neighborhood which are receiving remote monitoring services for their properties. The policyholders can receive such information via email mail or text messages. The insurance company can also provide a social media website where information about each neighborhood may be posted and shared among policyholders living in the neighborhood. Each policyholder of a neighborhood can for example log onto his her neighborhood s web page on the social media website to view real time information about the use of remote monitoring services of others living in the same neighborhood. In some embodiments policyholders of different neighborhoods may also share their information on the social media website. Offering such a social media website allows policyholders to encourage one another to use remote monitoring services as doing so improves the overall safety of their neighborhood benefiting everyone in the neighborhood. To protect policyholders privacy and identities particularly those without remote monitoring services identifying information about each policyholder is not revealed such that members or policyholders of the social media website can only communicate with one another virtually unless the members choose to reveal their identifying information.

Though the foregoing discussions are made in relation to offering insurance premium discounts to policyholders whose properties are receiving remote monitoring services an insurance company may offer other kinds of insurance benefits in addition to or in replacement of a premium discount. For example in some instances the insurance company may offer to pay for or reimburse a portion of the cost associated with receiving a remote monitoring service and any equipment or systems needed for the service. As another example the insurance company may lower a policyholder s deductible e.g. from 2 to 1.5 or issue credits e.g. 100 to a policyholder s account with the insurance company that the policyholder may use to pay for insurance related expenses in the future. The details of an illustrative suitable system and method for administering such payments are further described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 254 215 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

If policyholders offered with such alternative forms of incentives cancel their remote monitoring services the insurance company withdraws its previous offer and or impose an additional monetary penalty. For example the insurance company may request the policyholder to repay the cost that the insurance company had paid initially for covering costs associated with purchasing remote monitoring services and the associated equipment.

After selecting Yes to the question asking whether monitoring service is being provided the policyholder may be asked to identify which of the listed service providers is providing the remote monitoring services to the policyholder s property. If Other has been selected the policyholder may be given the option to provide the name of the service provider. The insurance company may also request permission to obtain information from the service provider regarding the type and status of the monitoring service the policyholder s property has. If the user grants the request the insurance company periodically or intermittently through an automated validation system verifies whether the insured property is presently receiving the remote monitoring services or any other information pertinent to the determination of premium discounts. For example the insurance company can also periodically or intermittently verify whether the type of monitoring services that the insured property is receiving has changed since the last validation cycle. This way policyholders no longer need to update the information on file with the insurance company if it changes because the stored information is updated automatically by the insurance company.

The insurance company may further ask the policyholder to grant it access to monitoring data. Monitoring data may be data collected by various sensors currently implemented as part of the remote monitoring system for detecting a variety of conditions of the property including without limitation fire hazards carbon monoxide levels water leakage break ins low temperatures etc. Having real time data transmitted to the insurance company enables the insurance company to proactively detect or identify a potential cause of loss and quickly eliminate the cause to prevent any damages from occurring or mitigate a loss after it has occurred. Emergency service providers e.g. fire departments hospitals policy stations plumbing companies electricians etc. may be contacted directly after a potential cause of loss is detected. For example the real time sensor data can indicate that pressure exerted on a water pipe has exceeded a threshold value and a potential rupture of the pipe may occur. As another example the sensor data can indicate that a gas stove was left on and is currently emitting carbon monoxide. Having access to the monitoring data can also assist the insurance company in determining and processing damage claims without having to involve the policyholder to contact the insurance company for on site damage assessment. Other benefits and methods for having access to monitored data are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 610 210 and 7 711 584 the entirety of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Using the web page the insurance company may also ask the policyholder to select the type of sensor used in the remote monitoring system. For example the service elected by the policyholder may include a water leakage sensor for detecting water leakage. Selection of one sensor is not mutually exclusive of the selection of another. Many remote monitoring systems come with a variety of sensors installed on the premises of a property for monitoring various aspects of the property. Such detailed information may be used by the insurance company s business logic computer to determine additional discounts that the policyholder may qualify for step . For example a policyholder with both a burglary detector and a water leakage sensor may receive a greater insurance discount than a policyholder with only a burglary detector since the risks are lower for a property receiving more comprehensive monitoring services. However if the policyholder does not know what type of sensor is used as part of the monitoring system the insurance company may after receiving the policyholder s consent request such sensor data be sent from a sensor data collection center either directly or indirectly via a trusted third party.

The insurance company may also ask the policyholder if the policyholder wishes to use preferred emergency service providers to prevent or mitigate a loss when a repair or other preventive or remedial services are needed e.g. to put out a fire to eliminate a source of carbon monoxide to relieve water pressure in a pipe before rupture or to remove standing water from a basement . A preferred service provider that is not a public entity e.g. a fire department may also be referred to as an in network service provider in an insurance company s private network. By selecting such an in network or preferred emergency service provider a policyholder may receive a greater discount as a result than a policyholder who chose to use an out of network service provider. Preferred emergency service providers may be contacted directly after detecting that a potential loss might occur or after an incident is detected. This way potential hazards or losses may be eliminated before they mature into actual incidents. If an incident is not averted the service provider by being timely notified of the incident may be able to mitigate the potential losses associated with the incident. Once an incident does occur the policyholder may also avoid any hassles associated with finding emergency service providers covered under an elected insurance policy. Since preferred emergency service providers have established business relationships with the insurance company and or the remote monitoring service providers bills incurred by any emergency service provider may automatically be sent to the insurance company instead of the policyholder who typically has to file claims him herself.

It should be noted that the questions listed on web page may be filled out by a policyholder or the policyholder s insurance agent. Additionally the listed questions are used only as examples of information that may be relevant to an insurance company for determining insurance premium discounts that a policyholder is eligible for. Since an insurance company needs to validate information about its policyholders against information that a service provider may have about these policyholders if they are also customers of the service provider questions depicted on web page may include or be made based on questions that a remote monitoring service provider generally gives to its customers.

In some embodiments questions depicted on web page are delivered to policyholders via mail posed over the phone or disseminated via another mode of communication. A policyholder can also return his her answers to these questions via mail orally or otherwise. Insurance personnel can update an insurance company s electronic database by storing the answers.

Validation platform may utilize or combine any one of well known software development platforms open or closed such as Microsoft .NET Java Adobe AIR Steam etc. Operating system platforms for supporting the validation platform may include Microsoft Windows Unix MAC OS Solaris IBM DB2 or any virtual machine operating system platforms. The platforms applications and operating systems may run on a computer system a server or the like. The validation platform may include an Application Programming Interface API which would allow easy plug ins of other entities applications to communicate with application . Databases and may be any well known memory or storage elements capable of retaining or storing electronic data. Databases and may also include database applications drivers middleware firmware and or operating systems to allow the retrieval and storing of data.

In operation the application may first query the database for a list of policyholders who are currently receiving property insurance premium discounts. The application may then filter the list to identify policyholders who are receiving discounts because their properties are receiving remote monitoring services. The application may further identify the names of the service providers for the list of policyholders currently receiving insurance discounts which may be based on information previously submitted to the database via web page . Once the names of the service providers are identified the application provides the names of the service providers to the trusted third party who establishes communication with the computer systems of the identified service providers. To protect policyholders privacy and their data security the establishment of communication may follow protocols typically associated with a secure MPC system in which data to be transmitted and received are routed through a trusted third party . A trusted third party may compare the name of a policyholder against names of all the service providers customers to determine if a match has been found. Once a match has been identified the trusted third party may obtain additional data about that policyholder from the service provider and create validation results to reflect such a match and or any other relevant information. By having the trusted party compare data received from the insurance company and the service providers the insurance company can avoid revealing the identities and sensitive information of its policyholders to other entities as might be required by contract law or other constraints while still allowing the insurance company to validate its stored information about its policyholders. Similarly service providers also benefit from such a trusted system as their customers data is also protected and not shared with other parties or entities.

For policyholders who have been identified in the service providers database or the trusted third party requests from the service providers their services status to determine whether they are presently receiving remote monitoring services. In an alternative embodiment the service providers deliver their customers current service status along with the initial customer list directly to the trusted third party . Once the trusted third party determines that the policyholders are indeed receiving the remote monitoring services validation results may be sent back to the application which may in turn provide the results back to the business logic computer of the insurance company for further processing.

If the trusted third party determines that some of the insurance company s policyholders do not match any customers names in the service providers databases the trusted third party may first approximate the names of the policyholders to be within a predefined code distance apart from the original names to determine alternate names that may be stored in the service providers databases. The trusted third party may also store in its system a phonetic algorithm such as Soundex used for indexing names by sound as pounced in English so that different versions of a name may be standardized or normalized. Other information that can aid in this process may include the policyholder s permanent mailing address telephone number or spousal name if any and or social security number etc. After the approximation analysis if the trusted third party is still unable to identify the policyholders in the service providers databases the trusted third party may flag the policyholders as not receiving remote services and send the results back to the application .

In some embodiments for a policyholder whose name does not match any customers of the service providers as verified by the trusted third party the insurance company can request these policyholders to i verify information stored in the database to correct any errors in their names and or street addresses stored in the database and or and or ii provide proof of remote monitoring services such as bills received from the service provider. This way the insurance company can avoid mistakenly withdrawing premium discounts offered to these policyholders due to a computational error. If a policyholder has different information stored in the database e.g. the last name has since changed the insurance company may send the updated data to the trusted third party for re validation.

In some instances some of the policyholders no longer receive the remote monitoring services from the service providers or . Accordingly the service providers and may provide data indicating termination of service of these policyholders to the trusted third party. Before sending such data the service providers and may first determine the nature of the terminated service. In some cases the policyholders services may have been terminated because payment for the services was past due for a predefined amount of time. In those cases data sent by the service providers and may reflect such information so that the insurance company may instead of withdrawing discounts from the insurance premiums remind the policyholders that the remote monitoring services need to be reactivated for them to continue to receive the insurance discounts. It should be noted that there are other scenarios in which an unintentional temporary lapse of service can occur and those scenarios should be handled differently from an intentional cancellation.

In instances where the cancellation of remote monitoring services was intentional the service providers and may provide data that would reflect such an intentional cancellation to trusted third party . The trusted third party may then embed such information in the validation results of that policyholder to the insurance company s application . The application may send data to the business logic computer for adjusting the insurance discounts accordingly. In some embodiments the application can generate automatic notifications to the policyholders indicating that termination of monitoring services will cause the withdrawal of premium discounts. The policyholders may be given a predefined period of time to renew the monitoring services in order to continue benefiting from the discounts. Alternatively the policyholder may be given the option to provide proof of receiving the monitoring services in case such determination of terminated service was incorrect or the policyholder has since changed service provider. In other embodiments the insurance company can simply withdraw the discounts when the validation results reflect the termination of services.

In some scenarios the service providers can provide the insurance company via the trusted third party with the date of termination of the monitoring services for a given policyholder. Thus the application may further calculate discounts that were given to the policyholder when they were not in fact eligible. The insurance company can then retroactively bill the policyholders for the discounts that were incorrectly given to them. In other instances the insurance company can also be given the information indicating hat the policyholders have either upgraded or downgraded the monitoring services. For example for the policyholders who have previously submitted through the forms on web page that the insured property is receiving anti burglary water leakage and fire detection monitoring services but has since changed the monitoring services to cover only anti burglary the insurance company can revoke some portions of the initial discount since the risks associated with the insured property have increased due to the downgrade of monitoring services. As another example some policyholders may have upgraded their services to include both anti burglary and carbon monoxide detection as opposed to only anti burglary the insurance company will upon receiving such information by the application credit the policyholders additional discounts for lowering their property s insurance risks.

After validating the stored information about policyholders who have been receiving property discounts the application may then generate a list of remaining policyholders who are not currently receiving the discounts. The insurance company may then send the list to the trusted third party to identify policyholders who are eligible for discounts but have not provided relevant information that would trigger the discounts. In other words to ensure that qualified policyholders are receiving their eligible discounts the application may query the database for a list of policyholders without discounts. The trusted third party may perform the same analysis as mentioned before and return validation results to the application . If the identified policyholders without discounts do not exist in the service providers databases and the insurance company may keep the insurance premium at the same level. In some implementations the application can remind the policyholder that receiving monitoring services for his or her property will qualify him her for premium discounts. If the identified policyholders without discounts are customers of the service providers the business logic computer may update and apply the insurance premiums accordingly. Finally the application may generate an automatic notice delivered via email or postal mail to the policyholder informing him or her of the discounts. Accordingly names and information of policyholders who are now identified as having the monitoring services may be indexed and stored among other policyholders who are currently receiving discounts associated with property monitoring services.

It should be noted that additional trusted third parties or service providers may be included in the validation system . As a simple illustration only two service providers and one trusted third party are illustrated in . The API of the validation platform may allow easy plug ins of additional service providers applications for communicating with the application . Alternatively the insurance company service providers and trusted third party may identify an agreed upon protocol for communicating among themselves without using an API. The validation system may also be configured in such a way to avoid future validation requests from the insurance s application . That is once a list of policyholders has been provided to the trusted third party no repeated requests for validation of these policyholders are needed from the insurance company. In fact only changes in the list of policyholders may be sent to the trusted third party e.g. new policyholders etc. . Similarly the trusted third party may receive only changes in the customer list and or account status of existing customers of the service providers.

In alternative implementations application and service providers and may communicate with each other directly without using a trusted third party . In these implementations the data comparison and validation may be done by either a computer system of the insurance company or the service providers in such a way that information or data about their respective customers is not shared among themselves in a fashion that would disclose private or proprietary information as described further below.

As described with respect to application of the insurance company may request the trusted third party to validate information stored in its database . In particular the application may allow the insurance company to communicate with the trusted third party to validate whether its insured properties are receiving monitoring services as claimed by its policyholders. The application may query the insurance company s database for a list of policyholders who are benefiting from the discounts and may then identify names of the service providers for providing the monitoring services to the policyholders properties. The identified service providers who have applications hosted on the validation platform may return their customers data to the trusted third party which computes and returns the validation results to the insurance company. The validation results may be received by the application and processed by the business logic computer located either on the validation platform or at the insurance company . If the business logic computer is located remotely at the insurance company the application may communicate with the business logic computer via the internet. Depending on the validation results the insurance premium discounts may then be determined according to the method described with respect to .

In some implementations instead of communicating with the service providers and via the trusted third party the application may communicate directly with the service providers and . To protect the anonymity of the insurance company s policyholders the insurance company may hash the names of the policyholders whose account status of the remote monitoring service is to be determined by the service providers and . Alternatively or additionally the insurance company may also hash other identifying information about its policyholders such as their permanent mailing addresses social security card numbers telephone numbers and or spousal names if any. The validation platform may support shared one way hash functions such as SHA 512 to allow both the application and service providers and to hash their customers name and or street addresses using the same hash function. For example the application may use a one way hash function to hash all the names of policyholders whose account status is to be validated. The application may send the hash values associated with each policyholder and information about which hash function was used to the service providers and . The service providers and may then hash their customers using the same hash function and return their hash values to the application for comparison. To combat dictionary attack or other common attacks associated with one way hash functions the insurance company may further store a list of salt strings used to randomize and increase the length of data to be hashed to be concatenated with the names or other identifying information of the policyholders to randomize the value to be hashed. The salt could be for example binary strings e.g. ASCII codes for Yes and or No . Alternatively the insurance company may use information about the type of remote monitoring services that a policyholder has elected for his her property as the salt. This way the insurance company can verify whether the policyholders exist in the database of a service provider without exposing the names or detailed information about its policyholders to the service provider. This can also prevent hackers from intercepting their stored data.

In other implementations policyholders who are also customers of service providers and may directly validate the account status in accordance with the open standard OAuth which allows users to grant a third party site access to their information stored in another party s website such as a service provider s website. Such authorization protocols or standards have been generally used in the field of social media. However similar concepts can supplement or replace the existing secure MPC models in which information received from two relying parties are being accessed and processed by a trusted third party. To use OAuth policyholders of the insurance company would need to establish an online account with both the insurance company and with the service providers. A policyholder may first log into his her account with the insurance company. Subsequently the policyholder may log into his her account with the service provider . The insurance company can receive a token from the service providers website after the policyholder has successfully logged into the service provider s website. The token may indicate to the insurance company that the policyholder indeed is an active customer of the service provider. Once a communication session is established after the policyholder has logged onto both accounts other information stored in the service provider s databases and may be shared with the insurance company s application without providing the insurance company direct access to the policyholder s account with the service providers and vice versa.

Computer system may be configured in a distributed architecture wherein databases and processors are housed in separate units or locations. The computer system may also be seen as a server located either on site near the insurance company or can be accessed remotely by the insurance company . Some such units perform primary processing functions and contain at a minimum a general controller or a processor and a system memory . In such an embodiment each of these units is attached via the network interface unit to a communications hub or port not shown that serves as a primary communication link with other servers client or user computers and other related devices. The communications hub or port may have minimal processing capability itself serving primarily as a communications router. A variety of communications protocols may be part of the system including but not limited to Ethernet SAP SAS ATP BLUETOOTH GSM and TCP IP.

The CPU comprises a processor such as one or more conventional microprocessors and one or more supplementary co processors such as math co processors for offloading workload from the CPU . The CPU is in communication with the network interface unit and the input output controller through which the CPU communicates with other devices such as other servers user terminals or devices. The network interface unit and or the input output controller may include multiple communication channels for simultaneous communication with for example other processors servers or client terminals. Devices in communication with each other need not be continually transmitting to each other. On the contrary such devices need only to transmit to each other as necessary may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time and may require several steps to be performed to establish a communication link between the devices.

The CPU is also in communication with the data storage device . The data storage device may comprise an appropriate combination of magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory and may include for example RAM ROM flash drive and or an optical disc such as a compact disc and or a hard disk or drive. The CPU and the data storage device each may be for example located entirely within a single computer or other computing device or connected to each other by a communication medium such as a USB port serial port cable a coaxial cable an Ethernet type cable a telephone line a radio frequency transceiver or other similar wireless or wired medium or combination of the foregoing. For example the CPU may be connected to the data storage device via the network interface unit .

The data storage device may store for example i an operating system for the computer system ii one or more applications e.g. computer program code and or a computer program product adapted to direct the CPU in accordance with the present invention and particularly in accordance with the processes described in detail with regard to the CPU and or iii database s adapted to store information that may be utilized to store information required by the program. In some embodiments the database s store s policyholder information such as information relevant to determining the insurance premium discounts base premium property insurance compliance guidelines for one or more jurisdictions policyholder policy provisions for one or more different types of insurance policies claims information and or prior records of the policyholder s property and the like.

The operating system and or applications may be stored for example in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format and may include computer program code. The instructions of the program may be read into a main memory of the processor from a computer readable medium other than the data storage device such as from the ROM or from the RAM . While execution of sequences of instructions in the program causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

Suitable computer program code may be provided for performing numerous functions such as determining insurance premium discounts of policyholders based on validation results associated with their remote monitoring services. The program also may include program elements such as an operating system a database management system and device drivers that allow the processor to interface with computer peripheral devices e.g. a video display a keyboard a computer mouse etc. via the input output controller .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any non transient medium that provides or participates in providing instructions to the processor of the computing device or any other processor of a device described herein for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical magnetic or opto magnetic disks such as memory. Volatile media includes dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM or EEPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor or any other processor of a device described herein for execution. For example the instructions may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer not shown . The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over an Ethernet connection cable line or even telephone line using a modem. A communications device local to a computing device e.g. a server can receive the data on the respective communications line and place the data on a system bus for the processor. The system bus carries the data to main memory from which the processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored in memory either before or after execution by the processor. In addition instructions may be received via a communication port as electrical electromagnetic or optical signals which are exemplary forms of wireless communications or data streams that carry various types of information.

In the scenario home may be an insured property currently receiving property insurance discounts because it is receiving remote monitoring services for detecting burglary. Similarly the home is another insured property but is not currently receiving any remote monitoring services. The home may be another insured property insured by the insurance company . The remote monitoring services for the home may include fire detection carbon monoxide level detection water leakage detection and burglary detection. Since each home is receiving different monitoring coverage each policyholder may be offered a different insurance policy and premium. For example the insurance premium for the owner of the home is 65 month while the premium for the owner of the home is 80 month the full amount and owner of the home is only paying 50 month because the home has the most comprehensive monitoring coverage. For homes and various sensors may be installed in and around the homes and data collected using the sensors may be sent to the collection center automatically. It should be noted that types of sensors used for remote monitoring are well known in the art. These sensors may detect encode and transmit data using various electromagnetic or acoustic waves such as without limitation radio waves microwaves infrared ultrasonic waves and the like. Sensors may repeatedly intermittently or continuously send the monitoring data to the collection center over the internet or wired connections. Alternatively the data may be sent only if an abnormality is detected.

In the scenario the collection center may also collect real time data about the various aspects of the insured properties so that the insurance company may use such data to determine damages in addition to verifying whether the policyholders are receiving the monitoring services. For example the collection center may receive sensor data such as the pressure of the water in the pipe before the pipe burst humidity surrounding the pipe the amount of water that has leaked as a result and or the like. The received data may also be used by the insurance company to determine which emergency service provider to contact for preventing causes of loss mitigating a loss or repair any resulting damage from a loss. Since the emergency service providers may be connected directly to the sensor data collection center the providers may be contacted in real time. Having such sensor data may also assist the emergency service provider in assessing the conditions and situation to more easily identify ways to eliminate a cause of loss or to repair damages.

In buildings such as the apartment building condominium building or the office building sensors may be installed in each individual unit or office within the buildings. A central data collector may also be installed inside the apartment building for collecting data received from each unit or office. Centralized data collectors may be implemented on a per floor basis. There may also be servers that manage all the received data for an entire building. Such servers may also house other information used by an on site management office for transmitting received data from each unit to the collection center . The server may further be connected to a database for indexing data collected for each unit currently receiving monitoring services. One or more units may use a different service provider for their monitoring services. Therefore each unit may also be indexed to include information about the type of monitoring services as well as the name of the service provider. Finally each sensor implemented in a unit may communicate with the collection center wirelessly or through wired connections.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of the invention.

