---

title: Information handling system status alert system
abstract: An information handling system status alert system includes an information handling system (IHS). The IHS includes a frame, a processor supported by the frame and a memory module communicatively coupled to the processor. The IHS additionally includes an operational display device coupled with the frame such that the operational display device is viewable from a first side of the frame. Furthermore, the IHS includes a status alert display device coupled with the frame such that the status alert display device is viewable from a second side of the frame, wherein the second side of the frame is substantially opposite the first side of the frame.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08624731&OS=08624731&RS=08624731
owner: Dell Products L.P.
number: 08624731
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100427
---
The present disclosure relates generally to information handling systems IHSs and more particularly to an IHS status alert system.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option is an IHS. An IHS generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements may vary between different applications IHSs may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in IHSs allow for IHSs to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition IHSs may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

An IHS provides an abundance of sounds graphics and other information data to users of the IHS via output devices such as speakers and a display screen. In a group setting such as a classroom where the students are facing the teacher and the teacher is facing the students the teacher cannot see what images or messages are being displayed on each individual student s IHS display because the teacher is generally positioned at the front of the class room and thus at the back side of the display screen of each student s IHS. As such it is difficult for the teacher or other non user of the IHSs to quickly determine a status of each student s IHS or running applications in such a group setting. In other words teachers have a difficult time monitoring an entire classroom of students using portable IHSs at the same time.

Unfortunately it is difficult for the teacher to move away from their teaching position at the front of the class room and position themselves behind all of the students to monitor progress or status of the student s work on the IHS. As an example if the students are all taking an exam on their individual IHS and one student is having difficulty with one question and stops progressing with the remaining exam questions the teacher would not learn of this until the exam is over and turned in to the teacher and the student has earned a poor score on the exam. In this case the student may fall behind. However if the teacher could quickly scan the class room to see a status of each student s IHS or application the teacher could address any problems or issues right from the start.

Some IHSs use custom alert systems. However these alerts are delivered to the IHS display screen and the teacher or other non user of the IHS would not be alerted because of their location at the front of the classroom. In addition this type of alert system where the alert notification is provided to the display screen requires that the IHS be turned on and fully booted operating. In addition the user has to open run that particular application in order to receive the alert notification. In other examples IHSs may provide peripheral based alerts but these alerts generally include using a light or other device in a fixed function manner.

According to one embodiment an information handling system status alert system includes an information handling system IHS . The IHS includes a frame a processor supported by the frame and a memory module communicatively coupled to the processor. The IHS additionally includes an operational display device coupled with the frame such that the operational display device is viewable from a first side of the frame. Furthermore the IHS includes a status alert display device coupled with the frame such that the status alert display device is viewable from a second side of the frame wherein the second side of the frame is substantially opposite the first side of the frame.

For purposes of this disclosure an IHS includes any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an IHS may be a personal computer a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The IHS may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic read only memory ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the IHS may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a video display. The IHS may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

Other resources can also be coupled to the system through the memory I O hub using a data bus including an optical drive or other removable media drive one or more hard disk drives one or more network interfaces one or more Universal Serial Bus USB ports and a super I O controller to provide access to user input devices etc. The IHS may also include a solid state drive SSDs in place of or in addition to main memory the optical drive and or a hard disk drive . It is understood that any or all of the drive devices and may be located locally with the IHS located remotely from the IHS and or they may be virtual with respect to the IHS .

The IHS also includes an IHS status display device . In an embodiment the status display device is set of different colored light emitting diodes LEDs that can be controlled using software to illuminate at different colors and at different on off blinking sequences to indicated alert messages or that the IHS is in a certain operating mode. In another embodiment the status display device is a liquid crystal display LCD device that can be controlled using software to display different textual or character messages to indicate that the IHS is in different operating modes. It should be understood that the status display device may include LEDs LCDs and or a variety of other display devices for indicating different operating modes of the IHS .

Not all IHSs include each of the components shown in and other components not shown may exist. Furthermore some components shown as separate may exist in an integrated package or be integrated in a common integrated circuit with other components for example the processor and the memory I O hub can be combined together. As can be appreciated many systems are expandable and include or can include a variety of components including redundant or parallel resources.

In addition the IHS includes a status display device and a power supply input receptacle . In an embodiment the status display device is integrated into the outer side of the lid portion of the IHS . As such a user of the IHS can operate the IHS using the user input devices and viewing the display device . On the other hand when a user e.g. a student in a classroom is using the IHS a non user e.g. a teacher in the classroom can view the status display device . In this way a teacher may see the status of a room full of IHSs with a quick glance from the front of the class room.

As should be understood the status display device may be used by non users of the IHS . When the IHS clam shell frame is closed the status display device may be visible above and on sides of the IHS . When the IHS is being used and the lid is open the user of the IHS may not be able to view the status display device . However non users behind the IHS should be able to easily view the status display device . In use the status display device may be configured to indicate an operation status of the IHS to those who are not directly using the IHS but may need to know what actions or activities are taking place on the IHS . Thus the non user e.g. a classroom teacher etc. may learn about the status of the user of that IHS.

In an embodiment the systems of the present disclosure provide an ability to allow software application developers to take control of this status display device e.g. a set of colored LEDs using software application programming interface API or other programming tools to provide customizable alerts to be displayed using the status display device per the requirements of their software application. In other words it is to be understood that use of the status display device may be used for and controlled by 3party non users of the IHS . For instance in a classroom setting a teacher may use a communicative system software application to put all of the student s IHSs in the classroom into a test taking mode that causes the status display device to be on showing a solid green color when the IHS is in a test taking mode. Additionally the status display device may blink yellow when the student has a question blink red when a student gets a question wrong and blink green when the test is completed. In another application the status display device may flash or otherwise cycle through illumination sequences and or change colors and or display a textual message thereby showing progress on a class assignment and etc. This type of software application may be loaded standard on the IHS or may be implemented by an IHS information technology IT administrator at a school workplace hospital military institution or any other group location. In an embodiment the status display device may be controlled using a device control protocol DCP or other system.

In short the present disclosure provides a system for creating custom alerts on the IHS which may be quickly viewed by teachers parents IT administrators students and or others such as non users of the IHS in different settings such as group settings. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure provide for the creation of different alerts or sets of alerts using the status display device on portable IHSs in an educational or other environment. In the educational setting the alerts may be fully customized based on the needs of the school district school or individual classroom. In other settings alerts may be customized to function in a 1 to 1 deployment setting.

It should be understood that embodiments of the present disclosure provided herein include a colored LED window on the back of the IHS that can be changed by color or blink rate to indicate various states behaviors or alerts for the IHS . However other indicator may be used. In a classroom setting types of alerts may include but are not limited to student is operating in the prescribed network or application the student is ahead or behind in a lesson there is a problem with the IHS that is preventing the student from continuing the student has a question for the teacher. Outside of the class room indicators may relate to but are not limited to notices that the IHS has been stolen the parent of the student must attend to something there is a message for the parent student from the school principle teacher and or any variety of alert messages as desired.

Another feature of the present disclosure is a system and method to control and customize the alert system to the needs of the particular school environment. This may be performed using a customizing software control panel that allows for the creation storage and deployment of alerts to a single IHS status display device or to multiple IHS s status display devices e.g. . provide screen shots for an embodiment of such a software control panel.

As shown the classroom tab is highlighted and thus chosen to be the working screen. This screen allows the user to choose between different classroom teaching services for using the status display device as shown the setup screen includes menus for the administrator teacher to choose. For example the administrator may choose the parent alert menu the testing mode menu the classroom mode menu and or the unauthorized side menu . In addition the administrator may choose to enable or disable the status display device using the status display enable disable button . The definition of the function of the status display device may be indicated by the status display device definition indicators on the administrator setup screen . In the embodiment shown the parent alert tab pulls up a parent alert editor screen that allows the administrator to draft a letter to a parent of a student who uses a particular IHS or to the entire group class see for example . . Then once the administrator saves the parent alert the system allows the administrator to turn the status display device to a color e.g. yellow until the parent reads the alert and acknowledges it. The status display device may also be configured to flash in one or more sequences which may indicate different messages or different states. The testing mode menu may allow the administrator to put all IHSs in the classroom into a testing mode where certain communication and file operations may be restricted.

As shown putting the user IHSs into a testing mode may turn the status display device green so that the administrator can easily look around the classroom and see that all IHSs are in the proper testing mode. The classroom mode menu may allow the administrator to set all the IHSs in the room to a classroom working mode. This in turn may define one or more operating modes such as communications file access Internet access and any variety of operating modes. When in this mode the status display device may be turned to blue. Similarly the unauthorized site menu may allow the administrator to define authorized and unauthorized Internet sites and may turn the status display device to flashing red. Viewing this the administrator may decide to turn off Internet access for the user viewing the unauthorized site. As should be understood any type and number of applications and functions in the administrator software may allow for any type of operation and definition for the status display device . Other tabs such as the details tab may be used to provide different functions or to provide information such as software name and revision or any variety of information. In other words other tabs menus and the like may be used and it is to be understood that the options and functionality of each menu may vary for different environments e.g. different schools and for different industries e.g. corporate medical etc. .

As should be understood this software and systems of the present disclosure may provide any use or functionality that may benefit by having a programmable status display device . In embodiments the systems and software of the present disclosure provide for multiple colors blink rates of the status display device . The present disclosure may be configured as an open architecture tool for customization. Software to configure the status display device may include a software user interface for defining additional functionality of the status display device and operation modes of the IHS . In an embodiment the status display device may be configured to provide to the administrator an indication of unauthorized programs usage virus detection IHS support needed parental alerts theft of the IHS Hands up alert during exams and any variety of other functions. Additionally it should be understood that the present disclosure may be utilized not only in the education market as discussed herein but also in other markets such as corporate military healthcare and others.

As should also be understood the present disclosure solves a number of problems such as allowing non users of the IHS to quickly determine a status of the IHSs in a group setting. For example a teacher may obtain the status of a student s activities on the IHS . In a classroom setting teachers generally have a difficult time monitoring an entire classroom utilizing IHSs at the same time because the teacher is typically located at the front of the room facing any number of IHS display device backs. It may be difficult to move away from this teaching position to behind the students to monitor the students progress or status. The status display device of the present disclosure allows for custom alerts that the teacher can quickly and easily see and address. Sometimes students fall behind in the modular electronic programs that are being utilized in today s schools. The present disclosure allows them to discretely indicate such incidences which the teacher can quickly address and correct. In one to one deployments the present disclosure offers a much more salient and full proof manner of delivering messages to parents or even students from the school. As such parents can quickly learn if they need to attend to something school related such as a permission slip a report card a school closing a schedule changes or any other item. In yet another setting the present disclosure provides a quick and easy way for IT workers to identify problems within a set of notebook computers when the status display device is configured to indicate such problem. For example in a storage cart system an IT worker can quickly look at the status display device to assess IHS health update status virus malware status and any other status. The IT administrator can create these alerts based on their needs and integrate them into their current software set. Accordingly the present disclosure provides a software tool to create modify and deploy alerts to multiple IHSs.

Although illustrative embodiments have been shown and described a wide range of modification change and substitution is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure and in some instances some features of the embodiments may be employed without a corresponding use of other features. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the embodiments disclosed herein.

