---

title: Power transmission device
abstract: A power transmission device includes first and second rings arranged opposite each other, having a common rotation center axis, and rotatable relative to each other; a plurality of planetary balls having rotation center axes parallel to the rotation center axis, and radially arranged between the first and second rings and around the rotation center axis; a transmission control unit configured to change a rotation ratio between the first and second rings by changing the respective contact points of the first and second rings and each of the planetary balls through tilting motion of each of the planetary balls; and a rotation restricting unit disposed between the planetary balls adjacent to each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08992376&OS=08992376&RS=08992376
owner: Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08992376
owner_city: Toyota-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100222
---
The present invention relates to a power transmission device capable of changing rotational speed the number of revolutions between an input and an output.

Conventionally power transmission devices are known to change an input to output rotational the number of revolutions ratio that is a transmission ratio. Among the power transmission devices is a continuously variable transmission for continuously variably changing a transmission ratio such as one composed of a so called traction planetary gear mechanism that includes a plurality of rotating elements. An example of a traction planetary gear mechanism includes first to fourth rotating elements which can rotate relative to one another with a common rotation center axis and rolling members as a fifth rotating element which have rotation center axes different from the common rotation center axis. The first rotating element is obtained by molding in a columnar or cylindrical form and functions as a sun roller. A plurality of rolling members planetary balls are radially arranged on the periphery of the first rotating element. The second rotating element functions as a carrier and rotates revolves together the rolling members supported by the carrier around its rotation center axis. The third and fourth rotating elements are obtained by molding in an annular or disk like form and function as ring gears in a planetary gear mechanism and sandwich the rolling members. The rolling members rotate around their rotation center axes in addition to their individual revolving. In a traction planetary gear mechanism of this type torque is transmitted among the first second third and fourth rotating elements via each rolling member. For example Patent Literature 1 described below discloses a continuously variable transmission of this type. In the continuously variable transmission described in the Patent Literature 1 respective portions of planetary balls are surrounded by the annular portions of pivotal support objects and these are integrated by extending a support shaft through them. The support shaft passes through the center of each planetary ball. Each pivotal support object is supported by the carrier by fitting a notch thereof on a pin extending from the carrier. Thus each planetary ball revolves integrally with the carrier. In the continuously variable transmission described in the Patent Literature 1 adjacent planetary balls are connected by a thin rod like member both ends of which are fitted into the annular portions of the pivotal support objects.

However in the conventional continuously variable transmission described above where the rotational speed the number of revolutions is different between the third and fourth rotating elements that is where torque is different between them forces in opposite directions are generated in the respective contact areas of the third and fourth rotating elements and each rolling member planetary ball . Since each contact area is offset from the position of the center of gravity of the rolling member toward the direction of the rotation center axis of the rolling member each of the forces causes the rolling member to generate spin moment which may lead to displacement of the rotation center axis of the rolling member in the moment direction. If displacement occurs due to this a required state of being parallel between the rotation center axis of the rolling member and the rotation center axis of the first rotating element sun roller is lost such that skew may occur between the rolling member and first rotating element. Consequently in the continuously variable transmission in this state thrust force occurs between the rolling member and first rotating element and the thrust force is scattered in the form of heat resulting in decrease in torque transmission efficiency. Additionally in the continuously variable transmission described in the Patent Literature 1 although adjacent planetary balls are connected by a thin rod like member spin moment generated in each planetary ball cannot be nullified by these members.

It is accordingly an object of the present invention to provide a power transmission device capable of restricting decrease in torque transmission efficiency by overcoming the drawbacks of such a conventional example.

In order to achieve the above mentioned object a power transmission device according to the present invention includes two rotating elements arranged opposite each other having a common rotation center axis and rotatable relative to each other a plurality of rolling members having rotation center axes parallel to and different from the rotation center axis and radially arranged between the rotating elements and around the rotation center axis of the rotating elements a transmission control unit configured to change a rotation ratio between the rotating elements by changing a contact point of one of the rotating elements and each of the rolling members and a contact point of the other one of the rotating elements and each of the rolling members through tilting motion of each of the rolling members an annular member disposed around each of the rolling members like a ring of Saturn such that when a spin moment is generated in the rolling member in directions other than the direction of rotation of the rolling member around its axis and the direction of rotation of the rolling member during tilting the annular member is rotatable integrally with the rolling member in the direction of the spin moment and a rotation restricting unit disposed between the annular members surrounding the rolling members adjacent to each other and configured such that at least part of the spin moment generated in each of the rolling members is offset via the adjacent annular members thereby restricting rotation of the rolling members generated by the spin moment.

In the power transmission device it is preferable to further include a third rotating element capable of rotating relative to each of the rotating elements on the common rotation center axis to the two rotating elements and a fourth rotating element capable of rotating relative to each of the rotating elements on the common rotation center axis to the three rotating elements and capable of rotating each of the rolling members around the rotation center axis of each of the rotating elements wherein each of the rolling members is preferably arranged on the peripheral surface of the third rotating element.

Here in the power transmission device it is preferable that the rotation restricting unit includes a convex curved surface body arranged between the adjacent annular members a first holding portion for the convex curved surface body and a second holding portion for the convex curved surface body the first holding portion being provided so as to move integrally with one of the rolling members and the second holding portion being provided so as to move integrally with the other one of the rolling members and the first holding portion and the second holding portion respectively preferably have concave curved surfaces between which the convex curved surface body is sandwiched so as to be freely moved along both the curved surfaces.

Further in the power transmission device it is preferable that the rotation restricting unit includes a convex curved surface portion provided so as to move integrally with one of the adjacent annular members and a concave curved surface portion provided so as to move integrally with the other one of the rolling members and having a concave curved surface engaged with a convex curved surface of the convex curved surface portion such that the convex curved surface of the convex curved surface portion is freely movable along the curved surface.

Further in the power transmission device it is preferable that the rotation restricting unit is a universal joint including a first engagement portion provided so as to move integrally with one of the adjacent annular members a second engagement portion provided so as to move integrally with the other one of the annular members and a coupling portion provided to freely change a joint angle between the first engagement portion and the second engagement portion.

The power transmission device according to the present invention uses its rotation restricting units such that even when spin moment is generated in each rolling member force generated by its spin moment is nullified by the force generated by the spin moment of the adjacent rolling member and at least part of each spin moment is offset. Consequently rotation by spin moment is restricted in each rolling member. As a result in the power transmission device since occurrence of thrust force between each rotating element and the rolling members is restricted any decrease in torque transmission efficiency can be restricted.

Embodiments of a power transmission device according to the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the drawings. It should be noted that the present invention is not limited to these embodiments.

A first embodiment of a power transmission device according to the present invention will be described based on . Here a description is given using a continuously variable transmission as an example of a power transmission device.

First an example of the continuously variable transmission of the first embodiment will be described using . Symbol in represents the continuously variable transmission in the first embodiment. This continuously variable transmission has a continuously variable transmission mechanism composing a transmitting section.

The continuously variable transmission mechanism is a so called traction planetary gear mechanism having first to fourth rotating elements to with a common rotation center axis R which are able to rotate relative to one another and having a plurality of fifth rotating elements with rotation center axes R different from the rotation center axis R. In this continuously variable transmission torque is transmitted among the first second third and fourth rotating elements and via the fifth rotating elements . In the description below the direction along the rotation center axes R and R is referred to as axial direction and the direction around the rotation center axis R is referred to as circumferential direction unless otherwise specified in particular. In addition directions orthogonal to the rotation center axis R are referred to as radial directions among which the inward and outward sides are referred to as the radially inward and radially outward sides respectively. The first to fifth rotating elements to are composed so as not to move relative to one another in axial direction.

In this continuously variable transmission at least one of the first to fourth rotating elements to serves as a torque input portion and at least one of the remaining rotating elements serves as a torque output portion. Therefore in this continuously variable transmission the ratio of the rotational speed i.e. the number of revolutions of any rotating element serving as input portion to that of any rotating element serving as output portion is a transmission ratio. For example the continuously variable transmission is disposed on the power transmission path of a vehicle. In this case the input portion is connected to the power source side such as an engine or motor and its output portion is connected to the corresponding drive wheel side.

Here in this continuously variable transmission the first rotating element functions as a sun roller for a traction planetary gear mechanism and a second rotating element functions as a carrier. Each of the third rotating elements and fourth rotating element functions as an ring gear in a planetary gear mechanism. Each fifth rotating element functions as a ball type pinion in the traction planetary gear mechanism. Each of theses fifth rotating elements rotates around its rotation center axis R and also revolves around the rotation center axis R. In the description below the first rotating element and the second rotating element are referred to as a sun roller and a carrier respectively. In addition the third and fourth rotating elements and are referred to as a first ring and a second ring respectively and each fifth rotating element is referred to as a planetary ball . 

The sun roller is obtained by molding in a columnar or cylindrical shape with the rotation center axis R as its rotation axis. On the peripheral surface of this sun roller the plurality of planetary balls are radially arranged substantially at regular intervals. Therefore in this sun roller the peripheral surface serves as a rolling face on which each planetary ball rotates around its axis. There is a case where this sun roller rotates each planetary ball by virtue of its own rotating motion of the sun roller and a case where the sun roller rotates by virtue of the rolling motion of each planetary ball the rotating motion of it around itself .

The planetary balls will now be described in detail. Each planetary ball is a rolling member that rolls on the peripheral surface of the sun roller . It is preferable that this planetary ball be a perfectly spherical ball. However it may be one that has a spherical shape at least in a rolling direction such as one with an elliptic cross section like a rugby ball. This planetary ball is freely rotatably supported by a support shaft extending through the center of the planetary ball . For example the planetary ball is configured such that using a bearing not shown disposed between this planetary ball and the peripheral surface of the support shaft the planetary ball is able to rotate relative to the support shaft that uses the rotation center axis R as the support shaft s own rotation axis that is the planetary ball is able to rotate around its axis . Therefore this planetary ball is able to roll on the peripheral surface of the sun roller around the support shaft .

This support shaft is disposed on a plane where the rotation center axis R includes the rotation center axis R. A reference position for this support shaft is a position where the rotation center axis R is parallel to the rotation center axis R as indicated by the solid line in . Within the plane this support shaft is able to swing tilt together with the planetary ball between the reference position and the position slanting from the reference position. The tilting takes place around the center of the planetary ball within the plane.

This continuously variable transmission is provided with a transmission control unit that allows the transmission operation of the continuously variable transmission mechanism by tilting each planetary ball . As with the one described in the Patent Literature 1 referred to above for example the transmission control unit is configured such that axially reciprocating force can be applied to an annular member described below at a position that is moved from the center of the annular member toward the radially inward side. This transmission control unit causes tilting force to act on the annular member and the planetary ball thereby tilting them around the planetary ball within the plane. A reference position for tilting angle of the planetary ball in is assumed to be 0 degrees. This transmission control unit includes a driving unit examples of which are an electric actuator such as an electric motor and a hydraulic actuator and also includes an electronic control unit ECU for controlling this driving unit. This transmission control unit controls the tilting angle by adjusting the reciprocal force applied to the annular member by the driving unit.

Here the foregoing transmission control unit may include for example tilting arms one end of each of which is attached to the corresponding end of the support shaft projecting from the planetary ball and the other end of each of which is disposed on the rotation center axis R side and a driving unit for moving the pair of tilting arms examples of which are an electric actuator such as an electric motor and a hydraulic actuator. In this transmission control unit the driving unit moves the tilting arms in their longitudinal directions and in opposite directions to each other along the plane thereby causing tilting force to act on the support shaft and the planetary ball . Consequently the transmission control unit slants the support shaft and tilts the corresponding planetary ball in conjunction with this. The operation of the driving unit is controlled by the electronic control unit ECU . The tilting arms are radially arranged around the rotation center axis R and are accommodated in grooves in the carrier which are formed radially like the arms.

In this example both ends of the support shaft are projected out from the planetary ball and guide members for guiding tilting in a correct direction are provided at both ends. Each of the guide members is for example a guide ball formed from a body with a convex curved surface body such as a spherical body. These guide members move integrally with the planetary ball and the support shaft when tilting takes place. As shown in part of each planetary ball in the first embodiment is surrounded by a corresponding annular member that has an annular portion like a ring of Saturn. The annular member is disposed such that the center of the annular portion coincides with the center of gravity of the planetary ball and such that equal distance is left from the part of the peripheral surface of the planetary ball . This annular member has a through hole in each of two areas of the annular portion which areas are respectively opposite the through holes of the planetary ball in which the support shaft is inserted. With regard to each through hole while one end of the support shaft is inserted in the radially inward portion of the annular portion part of the guide member is inserted in the radially outward portion thereof. The annular member and the support shaft are configured so as to be able to rotate relative to each other around the rotation center axis R as their respective rotation axes via for example a bearing not shown . Conversely the annular member and the guide member are fitted together so as to be moved integrally.

Additionally the continuously variable transmission is provided with first and second guide portions and each of which guides along the above mentioned plane the corresponding guide member a portion projecting from the annular member in this case which moves with the tilting of the planetary ball . Each of the first and second guide portions and may be for example one with a groove like shape matching the shape of the guide member or one that guides the guide member by using two opposite wall surfaces or the like. The first and second guide portions and rotate around the rotation center axis R as their rotation axes and integrally with the carrier . At this time the first and second guide portions and press their respective wall surfaces against the corresponding guide members provided at both the respective ends of the support shaft . Accordingly each planetary ball rotates revolves around the rotation center axis R and integrally with the carrier .

The carrier is a rotating member which may rotate relative to the sun roller and the first and second rings and around the rotation center axis R as its rotation axis. This carrier has at least one disk portion that uses the rotation center axis R as its rotation axis. To show the carrier as an example it is disposed on the second guide portion side.

Each of the first and second rings and is a rotating member obtained by molding in the shape of a circular ring with the rotation center axis R as its rotation axis. The first and second rings and are disposed opposite each other in the axial direction so as to sandwich the planetary balls between them. Specifically each of the first and second rings and has a contact face which is in contact with the radially outward side of the external curved surface of each planetary ball . The contact face of each ring has an inward arcuate face identical in curvature to the external curved surface of the planetary ball . Here the contact faces are formed such that the distances from the rotation center axis R to the respective contact areas of these first and second rings and and the planetary ball are equal. Thereby the respective contact angles of the first and second rings and to the planetary ball are made equal. The contact angle refers to the angle from the reference to the contact area of each of the first and second rings and and the planetary ball . Here a radial direction is used as reference. In the respective contact faces the first and second rings and are in point contact or line contact with the external curved surface of the planetary ball . The direction of the line contact is orthogonal to the above mentioned plane as defined when the planetary ball tilts. Additionally the contact faces are formed such that when axial forces in the direction of the planetary ball are respectively applied to the first and second rings and radially inward oblique force is applied to the planetary ball .

In the continuously variable transmission when the tilting angle of each planetary ball is 0 degrees the first and second rings and rotate at the same rotational speed with the same number of revolutions . Specifically at this time the rotation ratio i.e. the ratio of rotational speed or the number of revolutions of the first ring to the second ring is 1. Conversely when each planetary ball is tilted away from the reference position the contact area contact point of this planetary ball and the first ring and the contact area contact point of this planetary ball and the second ring change so that the distance from the central axis of the support shaft to the contact area of the planetary ball and the first ring changes and also the distance from the central axis of the support shaft to the contact area of the planetary ball and the second ring changes. As a result the first ring or the second ring rotates at a high speed and the other rotates at a low speed as compared to where each is in the reference position. For example when the planetary ball is tilted in one direction the second ring rotates at a speed lower than the first ring yielding an increase in speed and conversely when it is tilted in the other direction it is rotated at a speed higher than the first ring yielding a decrease in speed . Accordingly in the continuously variable transmission the ratio of rotation of the first ring to the second ring can be continuously and variably changed by altering the tilting angle of the planetary ball . Here to increase speed the upper planetary ball and the lower planetary ball in are tilted clockwise and counterclockwise respectively as viewed in the drawing. Conversely to decrease speed the upper planetary ball and the lower planetary ball in are tilted counterclockwise and clockwise respectively as viewed in the drawing.

This continuously variable transmission is provided with a pressurizing portion not shown which causes at least one of the first and second rings and to be pressed against each planetary ball thereby generating sandwiching force between the first and second rings and and each planetary ball . The pressurizing portion generates axial force pressing force thereby producing a sandwiching force between them. A magnitude of the pressing force is set so as to be sufficient to maintain torque transmission among the sun roller the first ring and the second ring via each planetary ball . For example this pressurizing portion may be a drive source such as an electric actuator or hydraulic actuator or may be a mechanism such as a torque cam that generates pressing force as the disposed first ring or second ring rotates. In the first embodiment the torque cam mentioned in the latter is disposed. In this continuously variable transmission the pressurizing portion is operated to generate pressing force thereby producing sandwiching force between the first and second rings and and each planetary ball and frictional force is generated between them.

In the continuously variable transmission as the sun roller rotates each planetary ball is rolled by frictional force and rotating torque generated by the rotation of each planetary ball around its axis is transmitted to the first and second rings and thereby rotating these rings. At this time the carrier rotates around the rotation center axis R together with each planetary ball . Additionally in the continuously variable transmission rotating torque generated by the rotation of each planetary ball around its axis resulting from rotation of the first ring is transmitted to the sun roller and the second ring thereby rotating them. Also in the continuously variable transmission rotating torque generated by rotation of each planetary ball around its axis resulting from rotation of the second ring is transmitted to the sun roller and the first ring thereby rotating them. Furthermore in the continuously variable transmission in conjunction with the rotation of the carrier each planetary ball rotates around its axis while revolving so that rotating torque generated by the rotation of the planetary ball around its axis is transmitted to the sun roller and the first and second rings and thereby rotating them.

As the third and fourth rotating elements and disk like rotating members having the same contact faces as the first and second rings and and having the rotation center axis R as their rotation axes may be employed instead of the circular first and second rings and described above.

Incidentally in the continuously variable transmission there is a case where the first and second rings and rotate at different rotational speeds with a different number of revolutions as described above. In that case forces in opposite directions to each other occur in their respective contact areas of the first and second rings and and each planetary ball . Each force is force in a tangential direction tangential force in the corresponding contact area resulting from the rotations of the first ring the second ring and the planetary ball . For example where the first ring and the second ring are assumed on the input side and the output side respectively tangential force in the contact area of the planetary ball and the first ring acts along the direction of rotation of the first ring whereas tangential force in the contact area of the planetary ball and the second ring acts in a direction opposite to that of rotation of the second ring . Here the respective contact areas of the first and second rings and and the planetary ball are provided in locations on the periphery of the planetary ball offset by a predetermined amount from the center of gravity of the planetary ball toward the rotation center axis R. Consequently each tangential force causes the planetary ball to generate spin moment. In the planetary ball as an example spin moment around the center of gravity is generated. The spin moment acts in the direction of rotation which is different from the direction of rotation of the planetary ball around its axis and also different from the direction of rotation of the planetary ball occurring during tilting. Also the planetary ball is able to move integrally with the annular member via the bearing between the planetary ball and the support shaft via the support shaft and via the bearing between the support shaft and the annular member . Accordingly spin moment generated in the planetary ball is transmitted to the annular member via them as well. is a drawing as viewed from the direction of arrow X in and is a conceptual diagram illustrating only essential portions for illustrative convenience.

Here the continuously variable transmission is provided with the guide members and the first and second guide portions and for guiding the tilting motion of the planetary ball as described above. In order to smoothly guide the tilting motion of the planetary ball without causing the planetary ball to become stuck for example spaces as shown in are provided between the first and second guide portions and and the corresponding guide members . In addition where the transmission control unit uses for example the tilting arms described above space for smooth guidance is defined between each arm and the carrier . The spaces in these guide portions contribute to factors in rotating the planetary ball in directions other than the direction of rotation of the planetary ball around its axis or the direction in which it tilts. When the spin moment described above is generated these spaces may allow the planetary ball to rotate in the direction of moment for example each guide member is displaced from the position indicated by the solid line to the position indicated by the two dot chain line in .

As a result the rotation center axis R of the planetary ball becomes parallel to the rotation center axis R when spin moment is not generated. However when spin moment is generated the rotation center axis R is displaced in the direction of moment with respect to the rotation center axis R. That is at the time of spin moment generation the state of being parallel between the rotation center axis R of the sun roller and the rotation center axis R of the planetary ball is lost resulting in displacement of the rotation center axis R from the plane described above. As a result when spin moment is generated skew may occur between the sun roller and the planetary ball due to the spaces mentioned above and due to spin moment. In other words the sun roller and the planetary ball work in a manner similar to a skew gear helical gear . Additionally skew may similarly occur between the first and second rings and and the planetary ball . Therefore in the continuously variable transmission when spin moment is generated thrust forces occur between the sun roller and each planetary ball and between the first and second rings and and each planetary ball . The thrust forces scatter in the form of heat and end up decreasing torque transmission efficiency. Narrowing each space makes it possible to narrow the margin for decrease in torque transmission efficiency. On the other hand since very great force is required to cause the planetary ball to generate tilting the size of the driving unit and hence the size of the continuously variable transmission increase.

The spin moments M in all the planetary balls are generated in the same direction and at the same magnitude and are also transmitted to the annular members surrounding the corresponding planetary balls as they are. shows such a state and illustrates an example of the direction and magnitude of each spin moment M at a certain point in time. Therefore in each area where adjacent planetary balls are close to each other and adjacent annular members are close to each other forces F resulting from the spin moments M act in opposite directions and at the same magnitude. These forces F are transmitted to the corresponding adjacent planetary balls so that the forces F are nullified by each other and the spin moments M are offset by each other. is a drawing as viewed from the direction of arrow X in and is a conceptual diagram illustrating only essential portions for illustrative convenience such as planetary balls for example adjacently arranged on the same plane.

In the first embodiment using the spin moments M of adjacent planetary balls the spin moments M forces F of adjacent planetary balls are mutually nullified. In order to achieve this the continuously variable transmission is provided with a rotation restricting unit which is configured such that at least the respective parts of the spin moments M generated in adjacent planetary balls are nullified between these adjacent planetary balls such that any rotations in directions different from the direction of rotation of a planetary ball around its axis and the direction of tilting are restricted. The rotation restricting unit is disposed between each of the adjacent planetary balls .

As shown in each of the rotation restricting units according to the first embodiment includes a convex curved surface body disposed between adjacent planetary balls first and second holding portions and for holding the convex curved surface body the first holding portion being provided so as to move integrally with one of a pair of adjacent planetary balls and the second holding portion being provided so as to move integrally with the other one of a pair of adjacent planetary balls . The convex curved surface body is held so as to be freely movable between the first and second holding portions and for the convex curved surface body and along both the respective curved surfaces of the holding portions.

As the convex curved surface body a spherical body is used for example. In this case it is preferable that the convex curved surface body be perfectly spherical. However any convex curved surface body may be used as long as it has a convex curved surface e.g. a spherical surface that does not block any movement at least within a range of movement i.e. the contact area of this convex curved surface body and each of the first and second holding portions and for a convex curved surface body .

On the other hand each of the first and second holding portions and for a convex curved surface body is provided on a member that when force is applied to the planetary ball in directions other than the direction of rotation of the planetary ball around its axis moves integrally with this planetary ball . Here the annular members are present as such a member. Therefore the first holding portion for a convex curved surface body is provided on the annular member surrounding one of the adjacent planetary balls and the second holding portion for a convex curved surface body is provided on another annular member surrounding the other planetary ball . Each of the first and second holding portions and for a convex curved surface body is for example a recess formed in the periphery of the corresponding annular member and has a concave curved surface corresponding to the convex curved surface of the convex curved surface body .

Additionally the convex curved surface of the convex curved surface body and the concave curved surface of each of the first and second holding portions and for an convex curved surface body have shapes that do not block any tilting motions of the corresponding planetary ball the annular member and so on when the planetary ball is tilted.

In the rotation restricting unit in order to ensure durability despite its movements for example the convex curved surface body is molded from steel and the annular members the first and second holding portions and for a convex curved surface body may be molded from spring steel.

In the rotation restricting unit the first and second holding portions and for a convex curved surface body sandwich the convex curved surface body . Their concave curved surfaces hold the convex curved surface body such that the convex curved surface body is freely movable.

When spin moments M are generated in adjacent planetary balls force F of one of the spin moments M and force F of the other spin moment M are applied to the convex curved surface body via the first holding portion and the second holding portion respectively for a convex curved surface body. The forces F are identical in magnitude but act in opposite directions so that they are mutually nullifying. This takes place between all adjacent planetary balls . Therefore in the continuously variable transmission since rotations by spin moments M in all planetary balls are restricted the state of being parallel between the sun roller and each planetary ball and between the first and second rings and and each planetary ball that is the state of being parallel between the rotation center axes R and F are maintained. Accordingly in the continuously variable transmission occurrence of thrust force between them is restricted so that a decrease in torque transmission efficiency can be restricted.

The rotation restricting unit is able to restrict decrease in torque transmission efficiency even when spin moment M is generated. However it is not necessary significantly to change the number of planetary balls disposed or spaces between them and so on from those in the related art. Also since each rotation restricting unit is disposed in a conventionally existing space between the adjacent planetary balls restricting decrease in torque transmission efficiency can be achieved without increasing the size of the continuously variable transmission . Also the rotation restricting unit is able to restrict decrease in torque transmission efficiency without blocking any tilting motions of the planetary balls or the annular members etc. Furthermore each rotation restricting unit is able to adjust the space between the adjacent annular members by changing the size of the convex curved surface body . Accordingly this enables highly accurate management of the spaces for the planetary balls radially arranged substantially at regular intervals.

Here as shown in it is preferable to arrange the convex curved surface bodies such that the centers of gravity of the convex curved surface bodies are located on a circle a circle around the rotation center axis R connecting the centers of gravity of all the planetary balls . In this case in order that the first and second holding portions and for a convex curved surface body be provided according to the disposition of the convex curved surface body the shape of the annular members may be determined if necessary. Thus the planetary balls etc. are able to tilt more smoothly. In addition when spin moment M is generated each convex curved surface body is less susceptible to force applied by moment other than this spin moment M. Accordingly separation of the convex curved surface body from the first and second holding portions and for convex curved surface body is easily avoided.

Each of the first and second holding portions and for a convex curved surface body is obtained by forming a recess in the periphery of the corresponding annular member . However each may be formed for example on a projection portion jutting out from the periphery of the annular member .

A second embodiment of a power transmission device according to the present invention will be described based on . In the second embodiment also a description is given using a continuously variable transmission as an example of the power transmission device.

A continuously variable transmission in the second embodiment is one in which the rotation restricting unit in the first embodiment is modified to another form.

For example the rotation restricting units in the first embodiment require the convex curved surface bodies which are additional components compared to conventional continuously variable transmission that has portions corresponding to the annular members . As a result the possibility of a cost increase arises. Therefore in order to restrict cost increases in the continuously variable transmission in the second embodiment the rotation restricting units are replaced by rotation restricting units shown in .

Each rotation restricting unit includes a convex curved surface portion provided so as to move integrally with one of the adjacent planetary balls and a concave curved surface portion provided so as to move integrally with the other planetary ball and having a concave curved surface that is engaged with the convex curved surface of the convex curved surface portion such that the convex curved surface is freely movable along the concave curved surface.

As a convex curved surface portion one obtained by spherical molding may be used. In this case it is preferable that the convex curved surface portion be perfectly spherical. However any convex curved surface portion may be used as long as it has a convex curved surface e.g. a spherical surface that does not block any movement at least within a range of movement i.e. the contact area of this convex curved surface portion and the concave curved surface portion . The convex curved surface portion with such an external shape is provided on a member that when force is applied to the planetary ball in directions other than the direction of rotation of the planetary ball around its axis moves integrally with this planetary ball . Here the annular members perform the function of such members. Therefore the convex curved surface portion is formed by projecting from the annular member surrounding one of the pair of adjacent planetary balls . That is this convex curved surface portion is like one obtained by integrating a convex curved surface body with one annular member in the first embodiment. Therefore the rotation restricting units can restrict costs compared to the ones in the first embodiment which have the convex curved surface bodies as separate members.

On the other hand the concave curved surface portion has a concave curved surface corresponding to the convex curved surface of the convex curved surface portion . As with the convex curved surface portion the concave curved surface portion is also provided on a member an annular member in this embodiment that when force is applied to the planetary ball in directions other than the direction of rotation of the planetary ball around its axis moves integrally with this planetary ball . That is this concave curved surface portion is a recess formed in the periphery of the annular member or a recess formed in a portion jutting out from this periphery and performs a role equivalent to that of each of the first and second holding portions and for the convex curved surface body in the first embodiment.

In this rotation restricting unit also the convex curved surface of the convex curved surface portion and the concave curved surface of the concave curved surface portion have respective curved shapes that do not block any tilting motions of the planetary balls and so on. This rotation restricting unit may be molded from for example spring steel or the like in order to improve its durability.

In the case of such a rotation restricting unit when spin moments M are respectively generated in the adjacent planetary balls force F generated by one of a pair of spin moments M is applied to the annular member serving as the base portion of the convex curved surface portion and consequently to the convex curved surface portion also force F generated by the other one of a pair of spin moments M is applied to this convex curved surface portion via the concave curved surface portion .

Accordingly as in the first embodiment these rotation restricting units are able to restrict decrease in torque transmission efficiency at the time of the generation of spin moments M without blocking any tilting motions of the planetary balls or so on and without increasing the size of the continuously variable transmission . Additionally by changing the size of the convex curved surface portion this rotation restricting unit enables highly accurate management of spaces for the corresponding planetary balls as in the first embodiment. In addition the rotation restricting units in the second embodiment can achieve these advantageous effects at low cost. Furthermore since each of these rotation restricting units can eliminate one component the convex curved surface body from the first embodiment workability for the assembly of the continuously variable transmission is improved.

Here as shown in it is preferable to arrange the convex curved surface portion such that the centers of gravity of the convex curved surface portions are located on a circle a circle around the rotation center axis R connecting the centers of gravity of all the planetary balls . Accordingly the tilting motions of the planetary balls and so on are smoothed and separation of the convex curved surface portions from their corresponding concave curved surface portions is easily avoided.

Each of the concave curved surface portions is obtained by forming a recess in the periphery of the corresponding annular member . However each may be formed for example on a projection jutting out from the periphery of the annular member .

Each one annular member may be provided with one convex curved surface portion and one concave curved surface portion or may be provided with two convex curved surface portions or two concave curved surface portions . Since the annular members all of which are identical in shape can be used the former is preferable in terms of cost reduction.

A third embodiment of the power transmission device according to the present invention will be described based on . In the third embodiment also a description is given using a continuously variable transmission as an example of a power transmission device.

A continuously variable transmission in the third embodiment is one in which the rotation restricting unit in the first embodiment and the rotation restricting unit in the second embodiment are modified to another form.

In the continuously variable transmission if excessive torque is input this is transmitted to the annular members via the planetary balls and so on resulting in elastic deformation of the annular members . In the rotation restricting units and in the first and second embodiments respectively when the annular members are elastically deformed spaces between adjacent annular members may be changed. In particular when the space between the annular members widens displacement or separation may occur in the joint portion. Therefore in the continuously variable transmission according to the third embodiment a rotation restricting unit as shown in is used in place of the rotation restricting unit or .

The rotation restricting unit is a universal joint a so called universal joint structure that allows the angle of a joint portion to be freely changed. This rotation restricting unit includes first and second engagement portions and and a coupling portion provided to freely change a joint angle between the first and second engagement portions and . Each of the first and second engagement portions and is provided on a member that when force is applied to a planetary ball in directions other than the direction of rotation of the planetary ball around its axis moves integrally with this planetary ball . For example as in the first and second embodiments this rotation restricting unit is configured such that the first engagement portion is provided so as to be movable integrally with one of a pair of annular members which member is provided around one of the adjacent planetary balls whereas the second engagement portion is provided so as to be movable integrally with the other one of a pair of annular members which member is provided around the other planetary ball .

Accordingly each of rotation restricting units not only yields advantageous effects similar to those in the rotation restricting units and in the first and second embodiments respectively but also yields the further advantageous effect that even if the adjacent annular members are subject to force that leads to change in the space between them displacement or separation are prevented from occurring in the joint portion. In particular even in a continuously variable transmission where the curvature of each joint portion is large because of for example substantially fewer planetary balls this rotation restricting unit is able to avoid displacement or separation in the joint portion.

Here as shown in it is preferable that the movable center between the first and second engagement portions and of each of the rotation restricting units be located on a circle a circle around the rotation center axis R connecting the centers of gravity of all the planetary balls . Accordingly the tilting motions of the planetary balls and so on are smoothed.

In each of the first to third embodiments described above the continuously variable transmission is used as an example of a power transmission device. However the rotation restricting units and in the corresponding first to third embodiments are able to obtain the foregoing actions and advantageous effects by their being applied in a power transmission device that has at least the configuration described below. The configuration includes two rotating elements arranged opposite each other having a common rotation center axis and rotatable relative to each other a plurality of rolling members having rotation center axes parallel to and different from the common rotation center axis and radially arranged between the rotating elements and around the rotation center axis of the rotating elements and a transmission control unit configured to change a rotation ratio between the rotating elements by changing the contact point of one of the rotating elements and each rolling member and the contact point of other one of the rotating elements and each rolling member through tilting motions of the rolling members. Where this configuration is applied in the continuously variable transmission the rotating elements are respectively the first and second rings and and the rolling members are planetary balls .

In each of the foregoing first to third embodiments a description was given using an example where spin moments M are generated as a result of the positional relation of the respective contact areas of the first and second rings and and the planetary balls . The rotation restricting units and are not limited to this example but can obtain advantageous effects similar to those described above even in any situation where spin moments M are generated in the planetary balls .

As described above power transmission devices according to the present invention are useful for a technique that restricts decrease in torque transmission efficiency.

