---

title: Electronic securities marketplace having integration with order management systems
abstract: An electronic trading marketplace (ETM) communicates with interfacing modules interfacing directly with order management systems (OMS's) at trading institutions. The interfacing modules automatically transmit orders from the OMS databases to the ETM and update the OMS databases in response to orders executed at the ETM. Traders can communicate with the ETM to anonymously negotiate trades of securities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07831507&OS=07831507&RS=07831507
owner: Liquidnet Holdings, Inc.
number: 07831507
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100610
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 556 661 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 747 515 filed Nov. 3 2006 entitled Electronic securities marketplace having integration with order management systems and is related to U.S. Pat. No. 7 136 834 filed Apr. 12 2001 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 242 373 filed Oct. 19 2000 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates in general to securities trading and in particular to electronic commerce marketplaces and order management systems for supporting securities trading.

Although computers are heavily used to facilitate trading of securities manual intervention is still required at certain steps in the trading process. For example most traders at institutional investment management firms record their orders to purchase or sell securities in computerized order management systems OMS s . However one or more traders at each firm must manually review the orders in the OMS and attempt to fill the orders by contacting one or more market intermediaries. Typically the traders transmit the orders in the OMS by telephone or separate data entry links to registered broker dealers for the securities to electronic marketplaces that trade the securities or to other market intermediaries. Accordingly manual effort is required to actually execute the orders in the OMS.

One problem arising from this manual effort is that institutional traders cannot execute trades involving large quantities of securities without adversely affecting the market price of the securities. For example institutional traders often need to trade large quantities of securities due to the continuing need of investment managers to respond to changes in market conditions by altering the contents of their investment portfolios. As these portfolios increase in size due to increased investor activity the corresponding quantity of securities to be traded in order to achieve a similar portfolio balance also increases. Market impact costs or adverse costs resulting from the institutional traders activities rise in such circumstances because locating parties with whom to trade such large quantities of securities becomes more difficult for the market intermediaries.

Moreover if the market intermediaries become aware that an institutional firm wants to say sell a large block of a particular equity security this awareness is likely to lower the sale price that the institutional firm can obtain due to the normal processes of supply and demand. The effect is also likely to be exacerbated by speculation from others with knowledge of the order as to why the particular investor wishes to sell such a large quantity of the security. Similarly if market intermediaries become aware of the fact than an institutional firm wants to buy a large block of a particular equity security this awareness will likely increase the purchase price that the institutional firm will have to pay. This adverse effect on price is further exacerbated by the fact that traditional market intermediaries trade for their own accounts.

One strategy commonly employed by institutional traders to offset market impact costs is to spread out trade orders for a large quantity of a security into small orders each handled by a different market intermediary sometimes over several trading days. Of course this strategy brings about its own problems in that the market price can change significantly during this extended trading period due to the unforeseeable activities of others.

Another strategy that may be employed is to spread the orders for the security among one or more electronic marketplaces. However the traders must manually transmit each order to the electronic marketplaces using a telephone or a separate data entry link. The fact that the traders need to perform these extra steps which include duplicate entry of basic order data already recorded in the OMS causes many traders to use these electronic marketplaces infrequently and to supply the marketplaces with only a small subset of the total orders. As a result these electronic marketplaces often lack the liquidity required by a trader to timely execute orders.

The lack of integration between the OMS and the electronic marketplaces also poses problems when an institutional trader wishes to trade a particular security simultaneously within an electronic marketplace and for example over the telephone with a traditional broker. For example some electronic marketplaces attempt to find matches at only specific time intervals. If a trader wishes to buy 100 000 shares of IBM and has placed an order for half that amount in an electronic marketplace the trader will not know how much if any IBM stock was purchased until after the next scheduled match attempt. In the meantime the trader potentially could have purchased more than 50 000 shares from a broker over the phone at a better price.

Therefore there is a need in the art for an electronic trading marketplace that does not require any manual intervention by traders or other parties offers anonymity and offers a high amount of liquidity.

The present invention addresses the above need by providing for the automated transmission of orders i.e. without manual trader intervention from the various order management systems OMS s used by investment management firms or other entities having trading systems to an electronic trading marketplace ETM . A firm with a trading system stores information about orders in an OMS to manage its order flow to monitor the initiation placement and execution of orders and for related purposes. Software providing the functionality of an OMS is well known in the art.

OMS interfacing modules OIMs at the firms automatically transmit orders from the OMS s to the ETM and preferably update the OMS s in response to orders executed at the ETM. Traders can communicate with the ETM to anonymously negotiate trades of securities. As used herein a security is an ownership or creditorship interest such as a stock certificate bond or any other financial instrument contract or transaction such as a forward futures option put call collar swap or currency contract on any security. This description uses the term security for convenience but it should be understood that the term covers financial instruments generally.

The ETM includes an OMS data integration module ODIM for receiving and processing data representative of orders received from the OIMs. In a preferred embodiment the data from the OIMs are provided to the ETM in a standardized format that requires little processing by the ODIM. The orders processed by the ODIM are stored in an ETM database.

A negotiation module in the ETM supports negotiations between traders. In one embodiment an indications module transmits orders received by the ETM among the traders based upon filtering criteria established by the traders and or the ETM. These orders are transmitted among the traders in the form of non binding indications. Based upon these indications traders at one institution can enter into negotiations with traders at other institutions through the negotiation module of the ETM. In one embodiment at least parts of the negotiations are conducted anonymously.

A trader authentication module authorizes and authenticates traders who log into the ETM in order to perform trading negotiations and or other functions. A transaction history module records transactions performed by the ETM in the ETM database. The transaction history module also preferably records other data processed by the ETM including for example the orders received from and sent to the trading systems and the conducted negotiations.

A typical trading system at an investment management firm or other entity at which trading is performed includes a number of workstations coupled to an OMS server via a network with a trader at each workstation. Each workstation preferably executes a trader OMS interaction module TOIM for facilitating interactions between the trader s workstation and the OMS server. In one embodiment of the present invention the TOIM allows a trader to add delete or modify open or contemplated orders stored in the OMS database. The OMS which includes the OMS server OMS database and TOIM is typically provided by an OMS vendor though some firms have developed their own OMS s.

In connection with the present invention each workstation also preferably executes an ETM interaction module EIM for facilitating interactions with the ETM. The EIM allows a trader to send information to the ETM and view and respond to information received from the ETM. Typically this information includes information about the trader s indications information about other traders indications and orders transmitted to and received by a trader during a negotiation.

The OMS database holds data representative of open contemplated or completed orders to buy and or sell securities by traders using the trading system. The OIM is in communication with the OMS database and the ETM. An OMS database integration module in the OIM reads data records stored in the OMS database and in a preferred embodiment also creates and modifies data records stored in the OMS database upon execution of a trade through the ETM. In one embodiment the OMS database interaction module directly accesses the OMS database and in another embodiment it sends commands to an application programming interface API in the OMS for accessing the database.

The OIM also includes an ETM communication module for communicating with the ETM. In one embodiment the ETM communication module provides selected data records in the OMS database to the ETM and in a preferred embodiment receives data and or instructions from the ETM regarding changes to make to the OMS database. In addition the OIM preferably includes a data record conversion module for modifying the format of data records sent to the ETM and or received from the ETM. The OIM also preferably includes a filtering module for filtering out specified orders by security type security name order type order price order quantity or other category so that those orders are not transmitted to the ETM.

Preferably the OIM transmits to the ETM data records in the OMS database relating to a trader s orders when the trader logs on to the ETM. Once the OIM determines that the trader has logged on to the ETM the DIM retrieves data records about that trader s orders suitable for transmission to the ETM from the OMS database. In one embodiment the OIM converts the data records retrieved from the OMS database into a standardized format understood by the ETM. In another embodiment this functionality is part of the ETM.

After a trader has logged on to the ETM the OIM determines whether the contents of the OMS database have changed. If the OMS database has changed the OIM determines whether the change should be transmitted to the ETM. In one embodiment the OIM continues to determine whether the contents of the OMS database have changed between the time that a trader logs on to the ETM and the time that the ETM commences trading. In another embodiment the OIM does not commence making this determination until the time that the ETM commences trading.

Because typical OMS s are complex and multi featured and because securities of types not handled by the ETM may be traded using the OMS some changes to the OMS database do not necessitate a transmission of updated data to the ETM. The OIM preferably transmits changes to the database to the ETM if the changes represent new or modified orders.

The OIM preferably updates the database in response to information received from the ETM indicating executed trades or other information. In a preferred embodiment if an execution occurred in the ETM involving an order in the OMS associated with the OIM the OIM receives information from the ETM describing the execution. This information includes for example the type amount and price of securities traded the time of execution and or information identifying the original order in the OMS database on which the execution was based. The OIM converts the received information about the execution into the format used by the OMS and updates the OMS database accordingly. As a result of these steps the OMS is updated automatically and transparently to reflect executions performed at the ETM. The executions appear to the OMS as typical trades conducted at another broker so no special functionality needs to be added to the OMS in order to interact with the ETM beyond that functionality described herein.

The trading systems are used by investment management firms or other entities that have established a relationship with the ETM . The trading systems communicate with the ETM to facilitate the trading of securities. As used herein a security is any ownership or creditorship interest such as a stock certificate or bond or any other financial instrument contract or transaction such as a forward futures option put call collar swap or currency contract. This definition includes for example any note stock bond debenture certificate of interest or participation in any profit sharing agreement or in any oil gas or other mineral royalty or lease any collateral trust certificate investment contract voting trust certificate certificate of deposit any put call straddle option or privilege on any of the foregoing or group or index of securities including any interest therein or based on the value thereof . This list is not all inclusive. For purposes of clarity this description will describe the trading of stock.

Within each trading system is a database A B C associated with an order management system OMS . Each OMS database holds data representative of open contemplated or completed orders to buy and or sell securities collectively referred to herein as orders for securities by traders using the trading system . For example assume that the database A of trading system A contains orders to sell 50 000 shares of DELL and 75 000 shares of MSFT and orders to buy 25 000 shares of CPQ and 100 000 shares of IBM. Also assume that the database B of trading system B contains orders to sell 30 000 shares of CPQ and buy 62 000 shares of T.

The orders in the OMS databases are automatically transmitted to the ETM . Likewise any changes in the orders such as modifications and or withdrawals are automatically transmitted to the ETM . As used herein the term automatically means that the associated action is performed without any human or manual intervention. Thus there is no need for traders to specifically request that individual orders in the OMS databases are transmitted to the ETM orders in the databases are sent to the ETM without the traders input subject to filtering criteria .

Preferably the ETM anonymously transmits information about a trader s orders to other traders using the ETM subject to filtering in accordance with filtering criteria established by the traders and or the ETM. Moreover the ETM preferably manages anonymous negotiations between traders using the trading systems for the purpose of executing the orders and sends data about the completed trades to the OMS s of the traders involved in the transaction.

Thus one embodiment of the present invention selectively broadcasts information about the orders received by the ETM from the database A of trading system A to the other trading systems B C. Likewise the ETM selectively broadcasts information about the orders received from the database B of trading system B to the other trading systems A C. If the traders desire such a trade the ETM will facilitate the anonymous negotiation and sale of 25 000 shares of CPQ from a trader using trading system B to a trader using trading system A.

Data is communicated between the trading systems and the ETM using interfacing links A B C. Any known interfacing technologies can be used to effectuate these links including but not limited to transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP satellite cellular and or radio frequency RF links or some combination thereof. The links may pass through one or more intermediate data processing systems such as telephone switches or Internet servers before reaching the ETM or a trading system . In embodiments where data travels over shared links such as embodiments where data travels over the public Internet the data is preferably encrypted using a secure protocol such as the secure sockets layer SSL .

Data received by the ETM from the trading systems over the interfacing links are received by a firewall . As is known in the art the firewall preferably prevents unauthorized users from gaining access to the rest of the ETM and monitors transfers of data to and from the network.

Data that pass through the firewall are received by one or more modules that perform the functionality of the ETM . As used herein the term module refers to machine executable code and or data but may also include associated circuitry such as processing circuitry as well as data storage areas and or any other software or hardware. Thus it will be appreciated that one or a combination of hardware and software such as a computer system executing software for performing the functionality of the modules may implement each of the modules shown in . It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the ETM may comprise one or more other types of modules circuitry etc. not shown in in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring understanding of the invention. For instance the ETM may include one or more microprocessors network connection circuitry and or data storage areas such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM CDROM DVD tape drive hard disk HD and or other types of storage areas. It will also be appreciated that the functionality of multiple modules described herein can be combined into a single module and the functionality of a single module can be split or shared among multiple modules. Moreover alternative embodiments of the present invention can lack one or more of the modules described herein and or have modules not described herein.

The ETM preferably includes an OMS data integration module ODIM . The ODIM receives and processes data representative of orders received from the OMS databases in the trading systems . In a preferred embodiment the data from the OMS databases are provided to the ETM in a standardized format that requires little processing by the ODIM . In an alternative embodiment the data from the OMS databases are provided to the ETM in one or more different formats depending upon factors such as the type of OMS used by the trading systems the types of interfacing links supplying the data to the ETM the type of security or orders to which the data pertains and the like. In this latter embodiment the ODIM preferably converts the data into a standardized format for use by other modules in the ETM .

The orders processed by the ODIM are stored in an ETM database . Data in the database are preferably accessible to the other modules in the ETM . In addition the other modules in the ETM can store other data in the illustrated database or other databases as may be required during normal operation.

In a preferred embodiment an indications module transmits information about orders received by the ETM among the various traders based upon filtering criteria established by the traders and or the ETM. This information is transmitted among the traders in the form of non binding indications.

Based upon these indications traders can enter into negotiations with other traders through a negotiation module . The negotiation module facilitates negotiations between traders using trading systems and having contra interests. In one embodiment at least parts of the negotiations are conducted anonymously in order to limit the spread of information about the traders activities.

A market data module receives real time and other market data from an input . The market data module provides the market data to the negotiation module and to the traders. The traders preferably use the market data during the negotiations to determining market prices for the securities.

A transaction history module records transactions performed by the ETM in the database . The transaction history module also preferably records other data processed by the ETM including for example information about orders received from and sent to the trading systems and the negotiations conducted successful or not . This module is preferably used to audit the transactions conducted on the ETM .

A trader authentication module authorizes and authenticates traders who log into the ETM in order to perform trading negotiations and or other functions. In one embodiment the trader authentication module stores authentication information such as a login ID password pair in the database . The trader authentication module also preferably stores profiles for the registered traders.

Other modules that may be present in the ETM include load monitoring modules for monitoring the load on various servers comprising the ETM fault tolerance modules for providing fault tolerance to the ETM security modules for preventing and detecting security violations on the ETM and back office modules for providing back office functionality. These modules are not shown in in order to avoid unnecessarily complicating the figure.

In a typical trading system that interacts with the ETM each workstation executes a trader OMS interaction module TOIM for facilitating interactions with the OMS server . In this typical trading system the TOIM allows a trader to add delete or modify open or contemplated orders stored in the OMS database . Contemplated orders may be stored in the OMS database for example because the trader intends to execute certain transactions in stages or because the contemplated transactions are desirable only if the market prices of the securities to be traded are within a certain range e.g. limit orders . Therefore such orders serve as placeholders indicating the total quantity of a security that a trader wishes to transact and conditions for transacting other orders other data in the database indicate the quantity of the security that has been transacted to date.

Each workstation executes an ETM interaction module EIM for facilitating interactions with the ETM . In alternative embodiments of the present invention the EIM is incorporated into the TOIM or other modules on the workstation . The EIM allows a trader to send information to the ETM and view and respond to information received from the ETM . Typically the received information includes information about orders through the indications module and orders through the negotiation module that the ETM receives from other traders or trading institutions. The trader uses the EIM to enter into and transact negotiations to buy and or sell securities through the ETM .

The network connects the workstations to the OMS and to external networks such as the network in communication with the ETM . The network can utilize any networking technology that supports bi directional transfer of data among the OMS workstations and external networks. In a typical embodiment the network is a private local area network LAN installed at a financial institution and interfacing with one or more external gateways. In alternate embodiments the network may be wireless connect devices over a wide area and or at least partially carry data over a public network such as the Internet . Other network components such as a firewall may also be present. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many different types of networks can perform the functionality described herein.

The OMS is preferably comprised of one or more computer systems for executing and maintaining an order management system. The OMS receives instructions from the workstations to create modify and or delete orders and updates the database accordingly. Software providing the functionality of the OMS is well known in the art. Commercial OMS software packages are available from The MacGregor Group Eze Castle Software Advent Software and Decalog to name but a few. In addition some trading institutions utilize custom OMS software.

As described above the database holds data representative of open contemplated or completed orders to buy and or sell securities. is a diagram illustrating a data record stored in the database to identify an order according to one embodiment of the present invention. Different OMS systems utilize different order data records and therefore it should be understood that illustrates only one possible data record. However many OMS systems store the same general information and the illustrated order data record is intended to represent a typical order data record for an OMS system.

The order data record has multiple fields each field holding different information about an order. The Order ID field preferably holds a value uniquely identifying the order associated with the data record . Similarly the Trader ID field preferably holds a value uniquely identifying the trader or other person who placed the order. The Order Status field identifies whether the order is open contemplated completed canceled or any other possible status. The next field Order Last Update Time preferably holds a timestamp that identifies the last time that the data record was modified in any way. This field is useful for determining whether the most recent version of the data record has been considered.

The Transaction Type field preferably indicates whether the data record corresponds to an order to buy or sell a security. The Security Symbol field preferably uniquely identifies the security to be transacted. The Security Symbol field can hold for example a Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures CUSIP number a ticker symbol or any other identifier of the security. The Security Type field is preferably used to interpret the other data in the data record according to the given security type. For example treasury bills are priced in terms of a discount to face value inherent in the pricing formula is the yield that would be obtained if the bill were held to maturity. In contrast equity securities are priced in actual per share values. The information in the Security Type field can also be used to filter out certain types of securities.

The Order Type field preferably indicates whether the order is a market or a limit order although the field can also indicate other order types. If the order is a limit order the Limit Price Field preferably identifies the price set by the trader.

The Total Order Size field preferably identifies the actual number of shares that the trader desires to transact. The Quantity Placed Elsewhere field is a value either equal to or less than the value in the Total Order Size field . In an embodiment of the present invention the ETM uses the values of these two fields to determine a quantity of a security if any that are available to be transacted by the ETM.

Preferably the OMS allows for the possibility that trading a large quantity of a given security may occur over several days at several different venues. For example to fill an order to buy 1 000 000 shares of IBM a trader may need to place an order for 300 000 shares with one broker and record numerous executions of portions thereof until the full 300 000 shares placed with that broker are purchased. If the broker cannot provide additional shares at a suitable price the trader may then place an additional quantity up to the 700 000 shares remaining to be purchased via another broker electronic marketplace or other venue. Preferably the broker enters a placement record into the OMS database to indicate that the trader anticipates executing a portion of the order through the second venue. This second venue may also fill the quantity it was asked to provide in several executions. Thus an order can have one or more placements and each placement can have one or more executions associated with it.

When a transaction is executed in a specified venue such as the ETM a corresponding execution record is preferably stored in the OMS database . is a diagram illustrating an execution record according to an embodiment of the present invention. An execution ID field preferably holds a value identifying the particular execution. As before the Order ID field preferably holds a value that uniquely identifies the order associated with the execution and all executions for the same order preferably have the same value in this field . The Broker field preferably contains an alphanumeric value identifying the venue that performed the execution. The Quantity Executed field preferably specifies the number of securities transacted in this execution while the Price field specifies the price at which the securities were executed. The Timestamp field preferably records the time at which the execution took place.

The OMS interfacing module OIM is in communication with the OMS database via the network or a direct connection. In alternative embodiments the OIM is in communication with the OMS and or the workstations . The OIM is also in communication with the ETM via an external gateway or some other form of network connection. In another alternative embodiment the OIM is integrated into the ETM and is remote from the OMS although some functionality is present at the OMS in order to provide OMS data to the OIM.

In a preferred embodiment the OIM includes a computer system storing and executing software for performing the functionality described herein. In an alternative embodiment the OIM executes on the same computer system as the OMS . In one embodiment the OIM includes an OMS database interaction module for interacting with the OMS database . The OMS database interaction module reads records stored in the OMS database and in a preferred embodiment creates and modifies data records stored in the OMS database . In one embodiment the OMS database interaction module directly accesses the OMS database and in another embodiment it sends commands to an applications programming interface API in the OMS for accessing the database.

The OIM also preferably includes an ETM communication module for communicating with the ETM . In one embodiment the ETM communication module automatically provides selected data records in the OMS database to the ETM and in a preferred embodiment receives data and or instructions from the ETM. In addition the OIM also preferably includes a data record conversion module for modifying the format of the data records sent to and or received from the ETM and a filtering module for filtering out specified orders by security type security name order type order quantity order price or some other factor or category so that filtered orders are not transmitted to the ETM.

Preferably the OIM waits until a trader logs on to the OMS before transmitting data records for that trader to the ETM . In one embodiment the ETM sends a message to the OIM when a trader at the institution in which the OIM resides logs into the ETM. The OIM interprets this message as a sign to commence receiving orders. In other embodiments of the present invention the OIM uses other techniques such as querying the OMS database for specific entries listening for an inter process message sent by the OMS polling individual trader workstations or implementing a timer based algorithm to determine that a trader has logged on to the OMS .

Once a determination is made that a trader has logged on to the OMS the OIM retrieves data records about orders suitable for transmission to the ETM from the OMS database . In one embodiment of the present invention all open orders are suitable for transmission to the ETM . In other embodiments of the present invention the OIM through the filtering module makes the determination of suitable orders based on other criteria such as the security type e.g. stock or bond security name e.g. IBM or T order type e.g. market or limit order order quantity and or order price.

If necessary the data record conversion module within the OIM preferably converts the data records retrieved from the OMS database into a standardized format understood by the ETM . As described above the functionality of the data record conversion module can also be performed by the ODIM in the ETM . Alternative embodiments of the present invention may send the data records individually or in multiple batches. The data transmitted to the ETM depend on factors such as the types of securities being traded and or the fields required in order to accurately trade such securities.

If the database has changed the OIM preferably determines whether the change should be transmitted to the ETM . Because typical OMS s are complex and multi featured and because securities of types not handled by the ETM may be traded using the OMS some changes to the OMS database do not necessitate a transmission of updated data to the ETM . Thus the OIM determines whether the change to the database reflects a new order of a type that is traded in the ETM . If so then the OIM retrieves the pertinent data for the order from the database . If the change does not reflect a new order then the OIM preferably determines whether the database change pertains to a modification of an existing order that has already been sent to the ETM . If so the OIM retrieves the data records corresponding to the modified order from the database . Once the appropriate data records if any are retrieved from the database the OIM preferably converts the data records into the appropriate format and transmits the records to the ETM as described above with respect to .

The OIM initially determines whether an execution occurred in the ETM involving an order in the OMS associated with the OIM. The step may be performed for example by receiving a message from the ETM identifying a particular execution that occurred at the ETM by filtering a list of all executions or other data from the ETM for executions listed in the OMS or by periodically polling the ETM for performed executions.

If an execution occurred in the ETM involving an order in the OMS associated with the OIM the OIM receives information from the ETM describing the execution. This information includes for example the type amount and price of securities traded the time of execution and or information identifying the original order in the OMS database on which the execution was based. The OIM converts the received information about the execution into the format used by the OMS . Then the OIM updates the OMS database with the converted execution data. As a result of these steps the OMS is updated automatically and transparently to reflect executions performed at the ETM . The executions appear to the OMS as typical trades conducted at another broker.

In summary the present invention includes an electronic trading marketplace that generates liquidity at least in part by receiving order information directly from the databases of OMS systems at trading institutions. Since orders are extracted from the OMS databases automatically and information about executed orders is inserted into the databases automatically the OMS databases see the marketplace as just another market intermediary. Moreover traders are able to conduct trades in the electronic marketplace without any duplicative manual efforts.

The above description is included to illustrate the operation of the preferred embodiments and is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is to be limited only by the following claims. From the above discussion many variations will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art that would yet be encompassed by the spirit and scope of the invention.

