---

title: Redirection of notifications to a wireless user device
abstract: Redirecting a notification to a wireless user device includes registering for notification of incoming messages for an account on a message server, the incoming messages being directed to an account on the message server. The redirecting also includes receiving at least one notification and redirecting the at least one notification through a firewall to a wireless user device associated with the account. The remote message server is in communication with a network protected by the firewall. According to one aspect, a cradle is configured to perform the redirection. According to another aspect, the cradle is associated with a remote desktop computer in communication with the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07958198&OS=07958198&RS=07958198
owner: Sierra Wireless, Inc.
number: 07958198
owner_city: Richmond, BC
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20101014
---
The present application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 280 878 filed on Oct. 25 2002 entitled Redirection of Notifications to a Wireless User Device and of application Ser. No. 11 977 967 filed on Oct. 25 2007 entitled Redirection of Notifications to a Wireless User Device which is a divisional of application Ser. No. 10 280 878 in the name of the same inventor and commonly owned herewith.

The present invention relates to the field of computer science. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for redirecting notifications to a wireless user device.

Users of personal digital assistants PDAs often desire to have their email messages or other notifications forwarded from their corporate email account to their PDA. illustrate two typical mechanisms for redirecting notifications to a PDA. Both solutions include a redirector application that resides behind a corporate firewall and pushes email messages from an email server to a wireless user device. Examples of commercially available redirector applications include Symmetry Pro available from Infowave Corporation of Burnaby British Columbia and BlackBerry available from Research in Motion RIM of Waterloo Ontario.

Referring to a user s desktop computer is in communication with an email server or exchange server via a corporate network such as a virtual private network VPN . Desktop computer is also in communication with a cradle . Email server includes a redirector application that is configured to forward notifications directed to a user s desktop computer to the user s PDA through firewall and via remote email directory .

Unfortunately this solution typically requires the assistance of a corporation s information technology IT manager to install the redirector application in the corporate network. Oftentimes the IT manager may not be able to justify the configuration effort and the expense required to implement the solution.

Another solution places a redirector application on a user s desktop computer. This is illustrated in . As shown in a user s desktop computer is in communication with an email server or exchange server via a corporate network such as a virtual private network VPN . Desktop computer is also in communication with a cradle . Desktop computer includes a redirector application that is configured to log into email server and forward notifications directed to a user s desktop computer to the user s PDA through firewall and via remote email server .

Unfortunately mobile professionals typically use a laptop or mobile computer as their desktop computer and they typically take their computers with them when traveling leaving nothing behind the corporate firewall to forward notifications to a PDA.

Accordingly a need exists in the prior art for mechanism that allows notifications to be forwarded from a corporate network to a users wireless user device that does not require reconfiguring an email server or a user s desktop computer. A further need exists for such a solution that allows a wireless user device such as a PDA to transparently connect to a corporate network without visibility by a VPN. Yet another need exists for such a solution that is relatively simple to configure and maintain.

Redirecting a notification to a wireless user device includes registering for notification of incoming messages for an account on a message server the incoming messages being directed to an account on the message server. The redirecting also includes receiving at least one notification and redirecting the at least one notification through a firewall to a wireless user device associated with the account. The remote message server is in communication with a network protected by the firewall. According to one aspect a cradle is configured to perform the redirection. According to another aspect the cradle is associated with a remote desktop computer in communication with the network.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein in the context of a method and apparatus redirecting notifications to a wireless user device. Those of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the following detailed description of the present invention is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other embodiments of the present invention will readily suggest themselves to such skilled persons having the benefit of this disclosure. Reference will now be made in detail to implementations of the present invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same reference indicators will be used throughout the drawings and the following detailed description to refer to the same or like parts.

In the interest of clarity not all of the routine features of the implementations described herein are shown and described. It will of course be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation numerous implementation specific decisions must be made in order to achieve the developer s specific goals such as compliance with application and business related constraints and that these specific goals will vary from one implementation to another and from one developer to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of engineering for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems OS computing platforms firmware computer programs computer languages and or general purpose machines. The method can be run as a programmed process running on processing circuitry. The processing circuitry can take the form of numerous combinations of processors and operating systems or a stand alone device. The process can be implemented as instructions executed by such hardware hardware alone or any combination thereof. The software may be stored on a program storage device readable by a machine.

In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that devices of a less general purpose nature such as hardwired devices field programmable logic devices FPLDs including field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and complex programmable logic devices CPLDs application specific integrated circuits ASICs or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

In the context of the present invention the term network includes local area networks wide area networks the Internet cable television systems telephone systems wireless telecommunications systems fiber optic networks ATM networks frame relay networks satellite communications systems and the like. Such networks are well known in the art and consequently are not further described here.

In the context of the present invention the term wireless user device includes any device capable of wireless communication and capable of rendering information to a user. The information may be rendered by way of example by visual auditory or tactile means. Exemplary wireless user devices include by way of example a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone a personal computer a pager or the like.

MAPI Messaging Application Programming Interface is a messaging architecture and a client interface component for applications such as electronic mail scheduling calendaring and document management. MAPI is available on many Windows client operating systems beginning with Windows 95. MAPI is also available on Windows CE client operating systems dating back to 3.0. Windows 95 and Windows CE 3.0 are available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

The IMAP4 Internet Message Application Protocol version 4 protocol is described in Request for Comments RFC 2060 December 1996. Exemplary email servers that support IMAP4 include Lotus Notes available from IBM Lotus Software of Cambridge Mass. Microsoft Exchange available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and Groupwise available from Novell of Provo Utah.

In the context of the present invention the term message monitoring protocol refers to a communication protocol capable of retrieving a message from an email server. Exemplary message monitoring protocols include by way of example MAPI IMAP4 POP3 Post Office Protocol Version 3 ActiveSync and SyncML. The POP3 protocol is described in Post Office Protocol Version 3 RFC 1939 Network Working Group May 1996 available at www.ietf.org. ActiveSync is available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. The SyncML protocol is described in SyncML Synch Protocol version 1.1 Feb. 15 2002 available at www.synchml.org.

In the context of the present invention the term message distribution protocol refers to a communication protocol capable of delivering a message to a wireless user device. Exemplary message distribution protocols include by way of example MAPI IMAP4 POP3 ActiveSync Wireless ActiveSync and SynchML. Wireless ActiveSync is available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. A message distribution protocol may also comprise a protocol that uses another protocol as a transport protocol. By way of example a message distribution protocol may use Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP Short Message Service SMS or the like as a transport protocol.

Turning now to a block diagram that illustrates a system for redirecting notifications to a wireless user device using a redirector appliance in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is presented. System comprises a redirector appliance a wireless user device an email server a remote email server and optionally a remote desktop computer . Redirector appliance comprises a network switch a message application interface and a redirector . Redirector appliance may also comprise a means for receiving a wireless user device such as a PDA or the like. Network switch is configured to interface between a network such as a virtual private network VPN or the like message application interface and remote desktop computer . Network switch allows both remote desktop computer and redirector appliance to communicate with network without requiring an additional network jack on the users office wall.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner. Also it is not necessary for all of the devices shown in to be present to practice the present invention. By way of example remote desktop computer is not required to practice the present invention. Furthermore the devices and subsystems may be interconnected in different ways from that shown in .

According to one embodiment of the present invention redirector appliance comprises an embedded computer that operates under a message monitoring protocol enabled operating system. Additionally message application interface comprises a module that implements the message monitoring protocol and redirector is configured to register for notifications of email messages incoming to an email account on an exchange server and redirect received notifications from email server to wireless user device through firewall .

In operation redirector registers for notifications to remote desktop computer with exchange server . Redirector redirects notifications directed to remote desktop computer to wireless user device .

According to one embodiment of the present invention a notification to wireless user device comprises the actual email message. The notification contents may be encrypted. Additionally SMS may be used as a transport protocol to deliver the email message notification to the wireless user device . Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other transport protocols may be used as well.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a notification to wireless user device comprises an indication to the user that new mail has arrived. The user may then use the wireless user device to log in to an email server using a secure protocol such as SSL Secure Socket Layer or the like and receive the email message.

According to another embodiment of the present invention message application interface comprises a module that implements a message distribution protocol and redirector is configured to log in to remote email server periodically poll remote message server for new notifications directed to remote desktop computer and redirect the notifications to wireless user device through firewall . In operation redirector logs in to remote message server and periodically checks for new notifications. Redirector redirects the notifications to wireless user device .

Turning now to a block diagram that illustrates a system for redirecting notifications to a wireless user device using a redirector appliance in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is presented. is similar to except that remote desktop computer if present communicates with redirector appliance via a universal serial bus USB interface. According to one embodiment of the present invention the remote desktop computer is the master on the USB and the redirector appliance is the slave.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner. Also it is not necessary for all of the devices shown in to be present to practice the present invention. By way of example remote desktop computer is not required to practice the present invention. Furthermore the devices and subsystems may be interconnected in different ways from that shown in .

According to another embodiment of the present invention the wireless user device reference numeral of and reference numeral of comprises a PDA and the redirector appliance reference numeral of and reference numeral of comprises a smart PDA cradle.

Turning now to an event sequence diagram that illustrates operation of a redirector appliance in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is presented. illustrates registering for notification of messages such as email messages directed to an email account on an email server redirecting a notification to a wireless user device and redirecting requests from the wireless user device . At redirector appliance registers with a remote message server . Remote message server communicates the registration request to message server . Upon receiving a message from a message originator directed to an email account on the message server message server sends the message to redirector appliance redirector appliance redirects notification of the message to remote message server and remote message server sends the notification to wireless user device . If the notification comprises an indication of a new message the user of wireless user device may communicate with message server possibly using a secure protocol as SSL to obtain the message content.

Still referring to upon receiving a request to print an email message attachment from wireless user device remote message server sends the request to redirector appliance redirector appliance redirects the request to message server message server sends the attachment to printer and printer prints the attachment.

The examples presented in are for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to be limiting in any way. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many types of messages may be redirected by redirector appliance through a firewall to a wireless user device . Those of ordinary skill in the art will also recognize that many types of requests sent by a wireless user device may be received by redirector appliance and redirected.

Turning now to a flow diagram that illustrates a method for redirecting a notification to a wireless user device by registering with an exchange server in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is presented. At a redirector registers with an exchange server for notifications of incoming email messages directed to an email account on the exchange server. At a determination is made regarding whether a notification of incoming email messages has been received. If a notification of incoming email messages has been received at the notification is redirected to the wireless user device associated with the email account.

Turning now to a flow diagram that illustrates a method for redirecting a notification to a wireless user device by polling an email server in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is presented. At a redirector logs in to an email server. At a determination is made regarding whether it is time to check for email messages directed to an email account associated with a user. If it is time to check for new email messages the check is performed at . At a determination is made regarding whether there is at least one new email message. If there is at least one new email message the at least one email message is retrieved at and at the at least one email message is redirected to the wireless user device associated with the email account.

The above description regarding message monitoring protocols and message distribution protocols is for the purpose of illustration and is not intended to be limiting in any way. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize other communication protocols may be used.

While embodiments and applications of this invention have been shown and described it would be apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that many more modifications than mentioned above are possible without departing from the inventive concepts herein. The invention therefore is not to be restricted except in the spirit of the appended claims.

