---

title: Wireless communication system and method for wireless signal communication in flight vehicles
abstract: Systems and methods for wireless signal communication in flight vehicles are disclosed. In an embodiment, a system includes a first portion that generates a first wireless zone. A second portion is decoupleable from the first portion and generates a second wireless zone. The first wireless zone and the second wireless zone communicate flight-related information while the first portion and the second portion are coupled, and discontinue the communication subsequent to the separation of the first portion from the second structural portion. In another embodiment, a method includes establishing a first wireless zone in a first portion of a flight vehicle, and establishing a second wireless zone in a second decoupleable portion of the flight vehicle. Flight-related information is communicated between the first wireless zone and the second wireless zone while the first portion and the second portion are coupled, and communication is discontinued after decoupling.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08422951&OS=08422951&RS=08422951
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 08422951
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100128
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract number H00006 04 C 0004 with the Missile Defense Agency. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The various embodiments are generally directed to wireless signal communication in flight vehicles. More particularly apparatuses systems and methods for inter stage signal communications in multistage flight vehicles are disclosed.

Contemporary flight vehicles generally include a variety of electronic and electromechanical systems such as guidance systems sensor systems or still other systems that are mutually interconnected to cooperatively interact during operation of the flight vehicle. Since the systems are generally physically separated within the structure of the flight vehicle signal communications between the various interconnected systems generally rely upon signal transmission elements that extend between the various systems. For example metallic conductors and even optical conductors may be routed throughout the flight vehicle structure to communicate signals between the various interconnected systems.

Multi stage missiles are an example of a flight vehicle having a plurality of systems that are electrically interconnected. In general multi stage missiles include a number of aligned stages having separate propulsion and propellant systems that provide propulsive thrust for the multi stage missile during a specified portion of a flight. Each stage may therefore be individually activated either in a predetermined sequence or in parallel to accelerate the vehicle to an intended speed and altitude. When propellant within a stage is exhausted an in flight separation of the exhausted stage occurs generally by means of pyrotechnic devices that can be detonated on command to sever portions of a structural coupling. Staging generally continues until a final stage is activated depleted of propellant and separated from the flight vehicle.

During an in flight separation of an exhausted missile stage from an adjacent and subsequently operative stage the electrical interconnections between the exhausted stage and the subsequently operative stage are disconnected. Although the aforementioned pyrotechnic devices may be used to sever the electrical interconnections more commonly electrical inter stage connectors are provided. Briefly the inter stage connectors are generally separable into mating portions that reliably provide an electrically continuous path through the connector when the mating portions are coupled and electrically decouple when a specified separation force is applied to the connector. Although the aforementioned inter stage connectors suitably allow stages to be electrically decoupled they are generally expensive and undesirably add to the overall weight of the missile.

Many flight vehicles may further lack sufficient internal space to accommodate signal transmission elements such as metallic and or optical conductors. In particular and with reference still to multi stage missiles the internal space within the missile stages is generally severely limited so that transmission elements are routed in ducts that are positioned external to the stages. Accordingly an aerodynamic and flight dynamics penalty is incurred by the externally positioned ducts.

Thus there are general needs for systems and methods that avoid the use of inter stage connectors and that also avoid externally positioned ducts to accommodate inter stage signal transmission elements.

Systems and methods for wireless signal communication in flight vehicles are generally described. In an aspect a wireless communication system may include a first portion configured to generate a first wireless zone. A second portion may be configured to be structurally decoupled from the first portion and may be configured to generate a second wireless zone. The first wireless zone and the second wireless zone may be configured to communicate flight related information between the first portion and the second portion while the first portion and the second portion are coupled and to discontinue the communication of the flight related information between the first portion and the second portion subsequent to the separation of the first portion from the second portion. In another aspect a method may include establishing a first wireless zone in a first portion of a flight vehicle and establishing a second wireless zone in a second portion of the flight vehicle. The first portion may be decoupled from the second portion of the flight vehicle. Flight related information may be communicated between the first wireless zone and the second wireless zone while the first portion and the second portion of the flight vehicle are coupled and the communication of the flight related information between the first portion and the second portion of the flight vehicle may be discontinued subsequent to decoupling the first portion of the flight vehicle from the second portion of the flight vehicle.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate the various embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Accordingly the examples described herein merely typify possible variations. Individual components and functions may be optional and the sequence of operations may also vary. Portions and features of the various embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Therefore the various embodiments as set forth in the claims are to be interpreted as encompassing all available equivalents of those claims.

The first stage may include a first electronics unit and the second stage may include a second electronics unit . The first electronics unit and the second electronics unit may in general include any electronic circuit or system that assists in the operation of the flight vehicle . For example either or both of the first electronics unit and the second electronics unit may include circuits or systems related to a guidance system or a navigational device for the flight vehicle . In addition the first electronics unit and the second electronics unit may also include still other circuits or systems related to propulsion systems in the respective first stage and second stage to sensor systems or devices in the first stage and the second stage or to circuits related to an in flight separation system operably coupled to the inter stage coupling .

The system may also include a first transceiver that is operably coupled to a first antenna that is positioned in the first stage and a second transceiver that is operably coupled to a second antenna positioned in the second stage . The first transceiver and the second transceiver may be configured to communicate signals with the first electronics unit and the second electronics unit respectively. The first transceiver and first antenna and the second transceiver and the second antenna will be discussed in greater detail below. The first transceiver and the first antenna may define a first wireless zone while the second transceiver and the second antenna may define a second wireless zone . The first wireless zone and the second wireless zone are configured to exchange wireless signals at least between the first stage and the second stage . The first stage may also include a power supply that may be operably coupled to the first electronics unit and the first transceiver to provide electrical energy to the first electronics unit the first transceiver as well as other systems and circuits in the first stage not shown in . Correspondingly the second stage may also include a second power supply that may be operably coupled to the second electronics unit the second transceiver and other systems and circuits in the second stage . The first power supply and the second power supply may include a storage battery capable of remote activation such as a thermal battery that becomes operational upon the application of heat received from a heat source. Alternatively the first power supply and the second power supply may also include rechargeable cells or even fuel cells although other known power sources may also be suitable.

A first umbilical may be removably coupleable to the first stage and a second umbilical may also be removably coupleable to the second stage . The first umbilical and the second umbilical are generally configured to communicate electrical energy and or information to the respective first stage and second stage before the flight vehicle is launched and decoupled from the flight vehicle upon initiation of a launch procedure. Accordingly the first umbilical may be removably coupled to the first electronics unit so that information such as launch initiation information guidance information or other pertinent information may be communicated to the first electronics unit . The first umbilical may also be removably coupled to the first power supply so that electrical energy for battery initiation e.g. to activate a thermal battery or battery charging may be provided to the first power supply . Correspondingly the second umbilical may also be removably coupled to the second electronics unit to communicate information to the second electronics unit and to provide electrical energy to the second power supply .

Still referring to the first transceiver and the second transceiver may be configured to operate in any one or more frequency bands generally selected from the ultra high frequency UHF portion the super high frequency SHF portion or the extremely high frequency EHF portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. Accordingly the first transceiver and the second transceiver may be specifically configured to operate in one or more of the LS band less than approximately 1 GHz the L band approximately 1 2 GHz the S band approximately 2 4 GHz the C band approximately 4 8 GHz the X band approximately 8 12 GHz the Ku band approximately 12 18 GHz the K band approximately 18.00 26.50 GHz and the Ka band approximately 26.50 40.00 GHz although other frequency bands may also be used. In some of the various embodiments the first transceiver and the second transceiver are configured to operate in the L band with a center frequency of approximately 1.8 GHz and a bandwidth of approximately 500 MHz. In some of the various embodiments the first transceiver and the second transceiver may be configured to encrypt the wireless signals exchanged between the first transceiver and the second transceiver so that communication between the first wireless zone and the second wireless zone is resistant to jamming or interception. For example the first transceiver and the second transceiver may be configured to communicate the wireless signals using spread spectrum methods that may include frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS time hopping spread spectrum THSS chirp spread spectrum CSS or suitable combinations of the foregoing methods. In some of the various embodiments the first transceiver and the second transceiver may be configured to communicate digital data at a rate up to approximately 4.2 gigabits per second Gbps when operating frequencies greater than X band e.g. approximately 8 12 GHz are used. In some of the various embodiments a data rate of approximately 20 megabits per second Mbps may be used when the operating frequency is within the L band e.g. approximately 1 2 GHz .

The first antenna and second antenna may be configured to transmit and receive the wireless signals in a selected operating band. In some of the various embodiments the first antenna and second antenna may include a patch antenna. Briefly and in general terms a patch antenna includes at least one approximately planar radiating portion that is separated from a generally planar ground plane by a dielectric material. Accordingly the at least one radiating portion the dielectric material and the ground plane may be generally integrated into a flexible planar structure that may be applied directly to a surface such as a selected surface portion of the first stage and the second stage . In some of the various embodiments the patch antenna may include at least one radiating portion e.g. a driven element that is coupled to an antenna feed point e.g. to an output of one of the first transceiver and the second transceiver and may also include one or more passive reflector and director elements that cooperatively impart directivity to a radiation pattern from the patch antenna. Alternatively the patch antenna may include a plurality of active elements that are excited in different phases so that the patch antenna also achieves a predetermined radiation pattern. In either case the first transceiver and the second transceiver may be coupled to the respective first antenna and second antenna by antenna matching networks not shown in and or matching stubs or other devices operable to match an impedance of the antenna to a feed point impedance. Alternatively and also in accordance with the various embodiments the first antenna and second antenna may include other antenna configurations such as for example a monopole blade antenna configured to extend outwardly from a surface portion of the first stage and the second stage .

With reference to and wireless communications between the first transceiver and the second transceiver or the first transceiver and second transceiver eliminate the need for electrical inter stage connectors between the first stage and the second stage . Accordingly the additional cost and weight associated with inter stage connectors is avoided. Moreover the need for external wiring ducts within stages of the flight vehicle is also eliminated thus avoiding the adverse effects on dynamics of the flight vehicle . Still other features of the various embodiments may be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The transceiver may be coupled to an electronics unit that may be configured to provide an identifier to the transceiver which may be further encoded in at least one of the signals and the signals communicated to the ground station and the satellite respectively. The identifier may include for example at least one of an identification of the flight vehicle a launch date of the flight vehicle an altitude or position of the flight vehicle or other pertinent information that may be useful in tracking the post launch position and identity of the flight vehicle .

The communications system may also include a power supply to provide electrical energy to the transceiver and the electronics unit . The power supply may include a thermal battery as discussed in detail above but may also include a rechargeable battery that may be coupled to an electrical source such as a photovoltaic e.g. solar panel so that the endurance of the communications system may be extended beyond that typically available from the thermal battery alone.

Referring still to the communications system provides communications between the transceiver and at least one of the ground station and the satellite so that the flight vehicle may be positively identified while the flight vehicle is following an orbital or a sub orbital path. Since the identifier which may be encoded in the signals and or the signals may include identification of the flight vehicle the orbital or sub orbital path of the flight vehicle may be more conveniently monitored.

According to the various embodiments the one or more conductive portions may be approximately rectangular and may be spaced apart by approximately one half wavelength relative to free space and the conductive portions may extend approximately one half wavelength relative to the material comprising the dielectric substrate . In some of the various embodiments the conductive portions have dimensions of dapproximately equal to 0.2 inch and dapproximately equal to 0.25 inch and are spaced apart on the dielectric substrate by a distance dapproximately equal to 0.3 inch although other dimensions may be used and depend upon the selected operating frequency.

With continued reference to and the conductive portions may be operably coupled to individual transmission lines with a selected phase offset applied to the conductive portions . In one of the various embodiments the conductive portions may be subjected to a phase offset of approximately 180 degrees although other phase offset values may also be used.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

