---

title: Handheld device for on-site datacenter management
abstract: In various exemplary embodiments, a system and associated method to provide management of a plurality of electronic elements in a datacenter is disclosed. The system includes a datacenter management system coupled to a wireless network to receive information regarding a spatial location of a handheld device within the datacenter. The datacenter management system provides information to the handheld device related to each of the plurality of electronic elements. The datacenter management system includes a management processor to process information related to each of the plurality of electronic elements and a database to store information related to each of the plurality of electronic elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08803660&OS=08803660&RS=08803660
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08803660
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100406
---
The present application relates generally to the field of computer technology and in a specific exemplary embodiment to a system and method of locating and maintaining elements in a datacenter.

In a variety of medium and large scale environments where electronic equipment is used numerous pieces of equipment such as servers routers switches and other network equipment must be serviced upgraded installed and maintained. For example in a multi seller electronic marketplace one or more sellers can list their inventory and buyers can purchase the inventory via a networked system such as over the Internet. The electronic marketplace example can include on line stores including wholesalers or retailers. In other forms the electronic marketplace can include banks world wide distributed enterprise systems or on line auction sites. In all cases some degree of equipment installation and maintenance must be implemented to ensure reliability of the electronic environment.

The description that follows includes illustrative systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody at least portions of the inventive subject matter. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. Further well known instruction instances protocols structures circuits and techniques have not been shown in detail.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or an exclusive sense. Similarly the term exemplary is construed merely to mean an example of something or an exemplar and not necessarily a preferred or ideal means of accomplishing a goal. Additionally although various exemplary embodiments discussed below focus on an electronic datacenter environment the embodiments are given merely for clarity in disclosure. Thus any type of electronic environment may employ various embodiments of the handheld device and method for on site datacenter management described herein. Thus various types of electronic environment using the device or method are considered as being within a scope of one or more embodiments of the inventive subject matter.

In an exemplary embodiment a system to provide management of a plurality of electronic elements in a datacenter is disclosed. The system includes a datacenter management system coupled to a wireless network that receives information regarding a spatial location of a handheld device within the datacenter. The datacenter management system provides information to the handheld device related to each of the plurality of electronic elements. The datacenter management system includes a management processor to process information related to each of the plurality of electronic elements and a database to store information related to each of the plurality of electronic elements.

In an exemplary embodiment a system to provide management of a plurality of electronic elements in a datacenter is disclosed. The system includes a datacenter management means coupled to a wireless network for receiving information regarding a spatial location of a handheld device within the datacenter. The datacenter management means also provides information to the handheld device related to each of the plurality of electronic elements. A processing means processes information related to each of the plurality of electronic elements and a storage means stores information related to each of the plurality of electronic elements.

In an exemplary embodiment a method to provide management of a plurality of electronic elements in a datacenter is disclosed. The method includes receiving information regarding a spatial location of a handheld device within the datacenter retrieving information related to each the plurality of electronic elements based on the spatial location of the handheld device within the datacenter and processing and transmitting the information related to each of the plurality of electronic elements to the handheld device.

In another exemplary embodiment a machine readable storage medium including a plurality of instructions that when executed by one or more processors causes at least one of the one or more processors to perform a method to provide management of a plurality of electronic elements in a datacenter is disclosed. The method includes receiving information regarding a spatial location of a handheld device within the datacenter retrieving information related to each of the plurality of electronic elements based on the spatial location of the handheld device within the datacenter and processing and transmitting the information related to each of the plurality of electronic elements to the handheld device. Each of these exemplary embodiments and others is discussed in detail below.

Management of datacenters generally requires site services employees to perform manual tasks within the datacenters. When the datacenter is large the tasks are more challenging and can be performed faster with the support of a handheld device such as a smart phone e.g. a Blackberry or iPhone personal data assistant or other device capable of connecting wirelessly to other devices and providing a graphical or textual display to a user of the device e.g. an employee within the datacenter . Tasks performed manually within a datacenter are becoming more complex with an increase in scale and virtualization of the infrastructure. Some of the tasks may require precise identification of infrastructure elements as well as real time information about the elements. By using a handheld device connected to the management systems and equipped with sensors such as a global positioning system GPS a magnetometer an inclination sensor or other instrumentation known independently in the art various embodiments of the inventive subject matter described herein provide assistance to the employees performing the management tasks.

The handheld device assists the employee with finding a location of various electronic and other assets assessing the status of the assets or providing guidance based on for example just in time information for the placement replacement maintenance or retirement of one or more of the assets.

The handheld device may use sensors to assists with tasks such as asset identification positioning and relocation or maintenance within the datacenter. Information can be downloaded to the device for identifying the asset within a row or a rack within the datacenter. As noted above the handheld device may use wireless connectivity to retrieve datacenter maps row and rack inventories status of assets or guidance with regard to particular tasks to be performed.

With reference to a high level network diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a system with a client server architecture includes a first client machine a second client machine a third client machine a network e.g. the Internet and an information storage and retrieval platform . In this embodiment the information storage and retrieval platform constitutes a commerce platform or commerce server and provides server side functionality via the network to the first second and third client machines. A programmatic client in the form of authoring modules executes on the first client machine . A first web client e.g. a browser such as the Internet Explorer browser developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. executes on the second client machine . A second web client executes on the third client machine . Additionally the first client machine is coupled to one or more databases .

Turning to the information storage and retrieval platform an application program interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more modules e.g. modules applications engines etc. . The application servers are in turn coupled to one or more database servers facilitating access to one or more information storage databases . The one or more modules provide a number of information storage and retrieval functions and services to users accessing the information storage and retrieval platform . The one or more modules are discussed in more detail below.

While the exemplary system of employs a client server architecture a skilled artisan will recognize that the present disclosure is not limited to such an architecture. The exemplary system could equally well find application in for example a distributed or peer to peer architecture system. The one or more modules and the authoring modules may also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The first and second web clients access the one or more modules via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the one or more modules via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client is for example a seller application e.g. the Turbo Lister 2 application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. enabling sellers to author and manage data items or listings on the information storage and retrieval platform in an off line manner. Further batch mode communications can be performed between the programmatic client and the information storage and retrieval platform . In addition the programmatic client can include as previously indicated the authoring modules used to author generate analyze and publish domain rules and aspect rules. The domain and aspect rules are used in the information storage and retrieval platform to structure the data items and transform queries. Such domain and aspect rules are known independently in the art.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrates a high level depiction of a datacenter utilizing on site datacenter management. The datacenter is shown to include a handheld device to receive pertinent information described in detail below about the datacenter through a datacenter management system coupled to a wireless network . The datacenter may be located at least partially within one or more physical facilities. The datacenter can include for example a traditional computing facility or an internal or external cloud computing facility. The datacenter management system includes a management processor on which various hardware and software components discussed herein may be located. The management processor may include for example one or more processors and a database not shown explicitly . The database includes information related to a spatial location e.g. datacenter row rack chassis etc. of a number of electronic components assets or elements. Additionally the database can include information related to electrical specifications cabling maintenance dates updates software and firmware version numbers and so on for each of the racks or electronic elements within the datacenter. In an exemplary embodiment the database may be located remotely from the management processor or as a stand alone unit. An optional radio location system operating within the datacenter if present is shown to include several antennas A . . . N coupled to a positioning computer .

The handheld device may include a cellular communications radio e.g. global system for mobile communications GSM capable of data transmission e.g. using general packet radio service GPRS connected to the Internet through a cellular phone provider network not shown . The handheld device may also include a global position system GPS . These characteristics are discussed in more detail below. The handheld device may have other means of data transmission including WIFI using for example a wireless networking standard such as IEEE 802.11 2007 e.g. 802.11b 802.11g or 802.11n . The handheld device includes multiple internal sensors not shown but found commonly in many contemporary communications devices such as smart phones . The multiple internal sensors may be based on for example accelerometers and can detect positional information including inclination orientation and position. In a specific exemplary embodiment the handheld device is a smart phone.

To facilitate some of the data acquisition tasks described herein the handheld device may also include a camera and optional readers to read optical e.g. bar codes and non optical e.g. radio frequency identification RFID tags identification labels. A client software application running in the handheld device described below provides a user with functionalities to perform various installation and maintenance tasks of the datacenter management system . The client software application interacts with hardware of the handheld device as well as with a management application residing on for example the management processor . The handheld device thus interacts with the management processor through the wireless network .

In a situation where a physical facility makes a GPS portion of the handheld device unusable e.g. due to blocked signals the optional radio location system operates through the several antennas A . . . N in the datacenter to provide indoor positioning to the handheld device . The several antennas A . . . N listen to radio transmissions of the handheld device and based on a relative receiving time of the transmissions as processed and determined by the positioning computer determine a spatial position of the handheld device . The spatial position is sent back to the handheld device through the wireless network to provide for more precise positioning.

The handheld device is assigned to an employee performing tasks within the datacenter . The datacenter management system provides a back end for the client software application running within the handheld device . The management processor provides support for the spatial location of the handheld device with regard to management of infrastructure components within the datacenter . The management processor also provides inventory topology and status for all components within the datacenter and guides a site services employee carrying the handheld device in the tasks to be performed. More detail on each of the components is provided below.

In addition to functions described above the handheld device provides radio communication with a cellular network to support voice and data transmissions. Specific communications characteristics of the handheld device are not relevant as long as the performance e.g. availability bandwidth and latency is sufficient for a given application. For example at a minimum one application requires communications to function in an environment with a potentially high level of radio interference. In various exemplary embodiments the handheld device operates on a wireless network radio to communicate electronically including data connectivity with the wireless network within the datacenter . The data connectivity is used to access various applications running on the management processor . Data connectivity can be accomplished through for example the wireless network or alternatively or in conjunction with the Internet by using a data portion of the cellular network not shown .

With reference now to the handheld device is shown to include a datacenter management client software engine a handheld software development kit SDK interface and a handheld device hardware component . The handheld device hardware component is shown to include a GPS component a digital camera a data connection component and one or more position sensors .

The handheld device also includes a display screen not shown to display graphics such as photographs maps and wiring schematics . Thus a resolution of the display screen should be sufficient to represent the datacenter infrastructure without requiring an unnecessary pan out. The display screen may also be touch sensitive and may support gestures like flipping pages scrolling up or down zooming in or out or clicking or double clicking. In certain embodiments the display screen is able to support millions of colors to assist in proper interpretations of photographs and schematics.

The datacenter management client software engine is shown to include a gestures component a mapping component and an identification component . More details on the datacenter management client software engine are provided below.

The handheld SDK interface allows the datacenter management client software engine to interface with the handheld device hardware component of the handheld device . The handheld SDK interface is discussed in detail below.

The one or more position sensors provide a position in space of the handheld device to the management processor see . The one or more position sensors can either be located within or merely supported by the handheld device . The one or more position sensors measure inclination of the handheld device dynamically to detect movements like the handheld device pointing up or down or sweeping from up to down and vice versa . The one or more position sensors may also provide a magnetometer to measure the handheld device pointing direction with regard to magnetic north dynamically to detect movements like pointing left or right or sweeping from left to right and vice versa . The handheld device may either provide or support additional sensors or input ports to read identification tags like RFID iButton and so on. These sensors may be indirectly connected to the handheld device through a radio network like Bluetooth. The handheld device exposes these sensors or the collected identifiers to the client software.

The digital camera included in the handheld device hardware component has a resolution sufficient to capture either linear or two dimensional 2 D bar code identification from a component within the datacenter . The handheld device can present photographs to the client software in real time or through a generation of picture files.

With reference again to the datacenter management client software engine client software running on the handheld device includes a variety of use cases. In one exemplary embodiment the client software provides a capability to the handheld device to support various ones of the use cases listed below.

In one use case the client software provides for management of the task queue. In this case users of the handheld device e.g. site service employees log in and view one or more list of tasks assigned to each of the users individually or assigned jointly to their group. The users can view a context required to perform the tasks and to manage the task life cycle e.g. acknowledge update close . The paradigm for this view is similar to an email inbox.

In another use case users receive notifications similar to instant messages IMs or short messages e.g. tweets regarding alerts broadcasts or other messages. The notifications may be used for either urgent or non urgent requests.

In another use case users receive tasks related to racking and wiring of components. For example when servers or racks are received on the dock they need to be installed and wired according to very specific policies and procedures. Thus a location of the rack the ports and power connectors to be used will be calculated in real time based on the policies and procedures using a datacenter model and inventory stored on for example the management processor see . . The users are provided with a datacenter map rack map and an overlay defining where and how the equipment should be installed to be compliant with the pre defined procedures. Using the handheld device the users no longer need to scan the equipment to record the asset tags since all updates are provided to the datacenter management system see in real time or near real time.

In another use case if a datacenter infrastructure component needs to be returned for repair or retired from production the site service employees need to locate the equipment accurately in order to remove the proper component from production. The client software provides a map of the datacenter and the rack with an overlay identifying the particular component to remove. In the execution of this use case the user scans the equipment to record the asset tags.

In another use case site services employees may need to locate a piece of equipment in order to perform maintenance repair or diagnosis. The client software provides a mechanism to locate the equipment and validate the current wiring and connectivity based on a diagram calculated from the datacenter model hosted on the datacenter management system .

In another use case an audit of a specific configuration within the datacenter see utilizes the handheld device to perform the audit and discover components efficiently. In the execution of this use case the user scans the equipment to record one or more associated asset tags. The client software in addition to existing business logic e.g. asset management software interacts with one or more devices of the handheld device hardware component through the handheld SDK interface .

With continuing reference to the datacenter management client software engine various aspects of the inventive subject matter within the client software of the handheld device are provided by three additional subsystems including the gestures component the mapping component and the identification component . Each of the various engines and components described may be hardware software or firmware components or a combination thereof.

As discussed briefly above a gestures component ensures ready access to various components of the handheld device by for example merely tapping or swiping a finger over the display screen. As a result the gestures component enhances efficiency of the user by improving access to various items appearing on the display screen such as multiple pages of schematics and wiring diagrams.

The mapping component provides the user with a map to an accurate location of the user within the datacenter using for example the triangulation features of the optional radio location system see or the GPS component . The map is displayed on the display screen of the handheld device . The mapping component in the handheld device can be used for at least two purposes. First a location of components in the datacenter and the items to be serviced or the location where new items need to be added may be identified on a map representing the datacenter floor rooms row racks or other elements. The locational capabilities of the handheld device are described in more detail below. Secondly a location of the user with regard to the datacenter may be identified on the map. This capability is used to display or focus the display screen on an area within the datacenter in which the user is located. This can be a building a floor a room a row or a rack located in proximity to the user. In cases where the handheld device is providing the position of the user the client software uses the handheld SDK interface to retrieve the user position and display an appropriate map. The maps themselves can be served on demand by for example the datacenter management system . Depending on a zoom level of the displayed map the maps may represent a datacenter a room within the datacenter a rack row within the room or a particular rack.

Also discussed above the identification component can couple the handheld device to for example optical or non optical sensors within or supported by the handheld device . The handheld device can be used to scan components for either component identification or verification.

With reference now to a detailed exemplary embodiment of the handheld SDK interface of is shown to include a handheld device code section a common procedures section and several application program interface API driver sections . The handheld device code section includes any software components algorithms etc. necessary to work with the handheld device . Thus details of the handheld device code section will vary from one handheld device manufacturer e.g. a smart phone manufacturer to another. However details for interfacing any handheld device with software in general and the several API driver sections in particular is known independently by one skilled in the art. Further the handheld device code section may be considered an open solution and is thus directly open to extension by the handheld device manufacturer.

Additionally the common procedures section provides an interface from each of the several API driver sections . The common procedures section may be considered as a sub component of the SDK interface . SDK sub components are known independently in the art and allow a programmer to create applications for enhancing operation of other software or devices. Here an operation of each API driver in the several API driver sections is enhanced through the common procedures section to operate with the handheld device . Details for the common procedures section vary depending upon details required by a handheld device manufacturer and a particular API interfacing with the handheld device . However the skills required to write code within the common procedures section are known independently in the art.

Referring now to a display screen illustrates an exemplary mapping feature on the handheld device having a two dimensional datacenter map e.g. a floor plan showing a number of rack locations e.g. Rack to Rack along with a relative location of a user of the handheld device within the datacenter. In addition to the number of rack locations the two dimensional datacenter map also shows the layout of the floor with various rows between the rack locations. The user can zoom in and zoom out using for example gestures supported by the handheld device .

With reference to when the user viewing a map at a row level the exemplary display screen may change from the two dimensional datacenter map to a three dimensional row view display of racks and rows. In a specific exemplary embodiment the three dimensional row view display is shown to include a first rack a second rack a user and a rack unit location . In this exemplary embodiment instead of or in addition to relying on the GPS to provide a location the magnetometer sensor not shown explicitly can be used to pan left and right. The inclination sensor can also be used to look up or down within the datacenter.

Referring now to when the user approaches more closely to one or more of the objects present within the datacenter such as the first rack and pointing to a specific location on the first rack the display may change to present an updated rack view . The updated rack view provides more details about the specific location within the first rack such as the rack unit location to which the handheld device is pointing or electrical specifications and maintenance records for electrical elements or components within the specific location within the first rack . If the resolution of the positioning system is insufficient for the specific location functionality to work properly the user may be able to default to an identification capability to scan a tag not shown explicitly displayed on the pointed object such as the rack unit location . The map will be updated to represent the identified object. On top of the maps overlays can be displayed based on a particular configuration or level of zoom.

The types of features that can be displayed are use case dependent but can be for example rows or racks where new hardware needs to be added. The number of machines to be added for each row or rack can be indicated as well as a position within a rack thus allowing users to plan the move of machines and follow specific cabling and racking specifications. Additionally identification of failed status can be overlaid on top of rows racks or machines. Information about a particular element such as a machine can include identification and other operationally significant parameters. For example temperature can be indicated as a color overlay from blue to red indicating hot spots within the datacenter. As shown in a cabling overlay display includes wiring and cabling instructions. The cabling overlay display specifies how for example a new server should be connected to the two top of the rack switches.

Several use cases require identification of datacenter elements or assets. The identification is usually done through a barcode or some other mechanisms such as radio frequency identification RFID . The handheld device may have different mechanisms to scan the identifiers. The mechanisms can include for example optically scanning by using a camera embedded in the handheld device . In this embodiment the user can scan one dimensional or two dimensional bar codes or other optically based identifiers. Using a reader connected wirelessly through for example Bluetooth the user can scan contactless tags like RFID or contact based tags like iButton. After reading the identifier the client software will transmit the identification to the datacenter management system to retrieve details about a particular asset or record the asset and its new location. This may require the scanning of the asset itself and the rack e.g. the rack unit or shelf e.g. the slot where the asset has been positioned. The identification system if working with a proximity sensor can incorporate sufficient spatial resolution to eliminate false readings coming from adjacent tags.

Gestures are sets of alternative input methods based on movements detected by various sensors within the handheld device see . Aspects of the inventive subject matter described herein can use several built in gestures such as to zoom in zoom out scroll up or down or flip pages. The client application can define new specific gestures. The new specific gestures can include for example a swipe from side to side when viewing a rack or a row will switch the view to neighboring racks or rows. Pointing a camera within the handheld device up and down a rack can scroll up and down the rack view allowing a view of various machines from top to bottom or vice versa . Pointing the camera within the handheld device up or down a rack can be also interpreted as scanning the rack for failed status. The client software queries the datacenter management system for the status of all the elements components or machines within the rack.

The datacenter management system can provide the back end server component for the client software running in the handheld device see . The client can be connected to the back end server using a secure data connection e.g. HTTPS . In a specific exemplary embodiment the datacenter management system can include components such as for example a datacenter model capturing objects within the datacenter as well as their relationships e.g. containment usage or connectivity a protocol interface for the client to communicate with the server using a service oriented protocol e.g. JavaScript Object Notation and Representational State Transfer JSON REST business logic implementing the use cases defined above a mapping backend to serve maps based on a location of the handheld device e.g. the mapping backend may dynamically generate the maps or use bitmaps with appropriate coordinates and communication with the optional radio location system see and an association with the specific device position.

For the racking and wiring task for example the datacenter management system provides functions including for example management of racking and wiring requests and their association to the appropriate user presentation of the request as an overlay on the datacenter map with the number of servers to add to each row and can further include color coding to specify different types of machines presentation of specific wiring and racking instructions e.g. a specific position within the rack specific connections to the network ports etc. and recording of the actual rack location and wiring e.g. if a preferred rack location and wiring scheme was not strongly recommended or if the recommended scheme could not be used .

With reference to an exemplary relationship model can accomplish various tasks such as those defined above. The relationship model is shown to include a rack a row and a datacenter . Depending upon a location of the handheld device or a way in which the handheld device is currently being used e.g. to optically scan a barcode or electrically scan a proximate RFID tag a location within the rack can display information pertinent to the location. In other examples the handheld device can provide information for an asset residing within either a chassis or the rack . Thus pertinent relative dependencies can incorporate and display a relationship used by the datacenter management system. In the exemplary relationship model each object has its coordinates specified and can include a graphical representation that can be used by the client application during map visualization.

With reference to an exemplary radio location system is an alternative to or may be used in conjunction with a GPS based location when for example the building structure is preventing the handheld device not shown explicitly in from receiving GPS signals in a portion or all locations within the building. The exemplary radio location system is based on a network of several antennas A . . . D. Signal processing boards within a triangulation system detect a location of each handheld device by tuning in to a frequency used by each handheld device . The triangulation system triangulates a position of each handheld device based on a relative signal strength received by the network of several antennas A . . . D. The location calculated by the exemplary radio location system is then sent back to the handheld device as a supplement or replacement to the onboard GPS. Depending upon the exact location of the handheld device as well as an operational mode being received from the handheld device the datacenter management system can provide spatially pertinent information to the handheld device .

While various embodiments of the inventive subject matter are described with reference to assorted implementations and exploitations it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative only and that a scope of the present inventions is not limited merely to those described embodiments. Moreover the systems and methods described herein may be implemented with facilities consistent with any hardware system or hardware systems either defined herein or known independently in the art using techniques described herein. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are therefore possible.

Additionally certain embodiments described herein may be implemented as logic or a number of modules components or mechanisms. A module logic component or mechanism collectively referred to as a module may be a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and is configured or arranged in a certain manner. In certain exemplary embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more components of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion or firmware note that software and firmware can generally be used interchangeably herein as is known by a skilled artisan as a module that operates to perform certain operations described herein.

In various embodiments a module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software or firmware to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that a decision to implement a module mechanically in the dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which modules or components are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the modules or components need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the modules or components comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure the processor to constitute a particular module at one instance of time and to constitute a different module at a different instance of time.

Modules can provide information to and receive information from other modules. Accordingly the described modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiples of such modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the modules. In embodiments in which multiple modules are either configured or instantiated at different times communications between such modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple modules have access. For example one module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

With reference to an exemplary embodiment extends to a machine in the exemplary form of a computer system within which instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. In alternative exemplary embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The machine may be a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router a switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The exemplary computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software instructions embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable storage media.

While the machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable storage media include non volatile memory including by way of exemplary semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present invention. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. In general aspects of the inventive subject matter allow a technician or other person to locate update maintain replace or repair various pieces of electronic equipment of elements with a datacenter. The exemplary embodiments described indicate how a technician can locate the proper piece of equipment or location for new or replacement equipment and follow datacenter protocols and procedures to properly install or maintain the equipment.

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present invention. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources.

These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of the present invention is represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

