---

title: Automatically enabling wireless communication
abstract: A telecommunication device configured to determine at least one of an occurrence of a charging event associated with the telecommunication device or presence of the telecommunication device at or proximate to a specified location is described herein. Based at least in part on the determining, the telecommunication device automatically enables a wireless communication transceiver of the telecommunication device to communicate over a wireless data network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738094&OS=08738094&RS=08738094
owner: T-Mobile USA, Inc.
number: 08738094
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101209
---
In recent years telecommunication devices have advanced from offering simple voice calling services to providing users with many new features. Telecommunication devices now provide messaging services such as email text messaging and instant messaging data services such as Internet browsing media services such as storing and playing a library of favorite songs location services and many others. Telecommunication devices are also now equipped with cameras capable of capturing one or both of images and videos. While these new features greatly enhance the utility of the telecommunication device to its user they also pose new problems. Images and videos captured by the telecommunication device must be backed up to prevent data loss. And software enabling the many new services offered by the telecommunication device must be updated. Both of these problems point to an increased usage of data communication through the telecommunication service provider network. Such data communication is often governed by a data plan specifying a price associated with a specific data transfer size. Frequent transfers of large files necessitated by these new telecommunication device features then can quickly become very expensive and also overload the service provider network.

To avoid data transfers through their telecommunication service provider network telecommunication device users occasionally utilize wireless communication transceivers of their telecommunication devices such as Wi Fi or Wi Max radios to connect to local wireless data networks in order to transfer data over those networks. For example homes and offices typically have wireless data networks that computing devices and telecommunication devices can connect to the wireless data networks providing connectivity to the Internet and devices reachable over the Internet. These wireless data networks are under utilized however because telecommunication devices typically are operated with their wireless communication transceivers disabled. Wireless communication transceivers consume substantial battery power when enabled making it difficult to operate telecommunication devices with the transceivers always on. And because disabled is the typical default users often forget to enable the wireless communication transceivers of their telecommunication devices when they come into the vicinity of a wireless data network.

Described herein is a telecommunication device that automatically enables its wireless communication transceiver based at least in part on detecting the occurrence of a charging event or on a determination that the telecommunication device is at or proximate to a specified location. As used herein wireless communication transceiver refers to a radio for local wireless communication such as a Wi Fi radio or Wi Max radio and not to the radio for cellular networks such as a radio for a GSM network or a HSPA network. The telecommunication device also includes a radio for cellular networks though. The telecommunication device then utilizes the enabled wireless communication transceiver to download software updates recover data or back up data over a wireless data network. The wireless data network is a different network than the telecommunication service provider network that the telecommunication device may be connected to. Such a wireless data network may be a wireless network of a home or office that has an access point or hot spot for wirelessly communicating with the telecommunication device. The access point then in turn communicates with another network such as the Internet allowing the telecommunication device to communicate with network accessible servers and storage. The wireless communication transceiver that communicates with the access point may be a Wi Fi radio or Wi Max radio. The back up data or recovered data may include but is not limited to content like pictures videos and audio files. The downloaded updates may include software updates for the telecommunication device platform and third party applications as well as other data such as large media files.

In some implementations the automatic enabling of the wireless communication transceiver is responsive to the telecommunication device detecting the occurrence of a charging event. The charging event may be for example the plugging of a charging component e.g. power cord that is connected to the telecommunication device into a power outlet. In response to detecting the plug in the telecommunication device may automatically enable the wireless communication transceiver connect to the wireless data network and begin backing up data recovering data and downloading updates. In some implementations upon detecting the charging event but prior to enabling the wireless communication transceiver the telecommunication device performs at least one of determining a current location determining a duration since the charging event or determining a battery power level. The choice of which actions to perform may be based at least in part on telecommunication device settings. The settings may also specify thresholds such as specified locations a battery power level or a minimum duration. Meeting of the thresholds may be a condition that is met before the telecommunication device performs the automatic enabling.

In one implementation the charging event may be the plugging of a universal serial bus USB cord attached to the telecommunication device into a USB port of a computing device. In response to such a charging event the telecommunication device engages in data communication through the USB port in place of automatically enabling the wireless communication transceiver.

In some implementations the automatic enabling of the wireless communication transceiver is responsive to the telecommunication device determining that the telecommunication device is at or proximate to a specified location. This determination may be made independently of the occurrence or non occurrence of a charging event. If the telecommunication device is determined to be at a specified location such as a home office or other location likely to offer wireless data connectivity the telecommunication device may automatically enable the wireless communication transceiver connect to the wireless data network and begin backing up data recovering data and downloading updates. In various implementations the telecommunication device determines whether it is at the specified location by either determining its current location or receiving its location from a remote server and comparing the determined or received location to a list of specified locations. In some implementations upon determining that the telecommunication device is at the specified location but prior to enabling the wireless communication transceiver the telecommunication device performs at least one of determining a duration since the charging event or determining a battery power level. The choice of which actions to perform may be based at least in part on telecommunication device settings. The settings may also specify thresholds such as a battery power level or a minimum duration. Meeting of the thresholds may be a condition that is met before the telecommunication device performs the automatic enabling.

In various implementations the telecommunication device offers application programming interfaces APIs that enable third party applications to back up data recover data or download updates in response to the automatic enabling of the wireless communication transceiver. In some implementations such as implementations where the telecommunication device acts as an access point or hot spot for other computing devices and telecommunication devices the APIs may enable platforms or applications of these other devices to back up data recover data or download updates in response to the automatic enabling of the wireless communication transceiver.

In some implementations the telecommunication device is attached to a charging component such as a power cord that may be plugged into a power outlet . The telecommunication device may be configured to detect the occurrence of a charging event representing the plugging of the charging component into the power outlet and based on detecting the charging event to automatically enable the wireless communication transceiver to communicate over the wireless data network in the home or office to an access point located in or proximate to the home or office and offering the wireless data network. In some implementations the telecommunication device may also or instead be configured to determine whether it is at or proximate to a specified location e.g. home or office and based on the determination to automatically enable the wireless communication transceiver .

Once the telecommunication device has automatically enabled the wireless communication transceiver the telecommunication device communicates with a network such as the Internet through the wireless data network offered by the access point . The telecommunication device communicates with one or both of servers and storage to back up data stored on the telecommunication device or to download software updates or recover data.

In various implementations the telecommunication device shown in is any sort of computing device. The telecommunication device can be a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a personal computer PC a laptop computer a workstation a server system a tablet computer a television a media player a digital video recorder a game device or a set top box or any other sort of device. An example telecommunication device is illustrated in and is described below in further detail in reference to that figure.

As further shown in the telecommunication device is equipped with a wireless communication transceiver that can be enabled or disabled by the telecommunication device i.e. turned on or off . The wireless communication transceiver may be any sort of transceiver that communicates over a wireless data network. For example the wireless communication transceiver may be one of a Wi Fi radio or a Wi Max radio for communicating across a wireless local area network LAN of the sort typically found in a home or office . As described further herein the wireless communication transceiver may be automatically enabled or disabled by the telecommunication device . In some implementations the wireless communication transceiver may also be enabled or disabled by a user of the telecommunication device through one or more user interfaces provided by the telecommunication device such as a settings menu.

In various implementations home and office represent locations associated with the wireless data networks over which the wireless communication transceiver communicates. Both home and office include access points which provide the wireless data networks and act as routers providing connectivity to network . While home and office are shown in any location or locations likely to provide wireless data network access may be utilized in conjunction with the automatic enabling techniques described herein.

In some implementations home or office may be included in a list of specified locations stored on or provided to the telecommunication device . In such implementations the telecommunication device conditionally performs the automatic enabling of the wireless communication transceiver based on whether the telecommunication device is at or proximate to one of the specified locations. To determine whether the telecommunication device is at or proximate to a specified location the telecommunication device may either determine its current location or receive its location from a remote server such as a server of a telecommunication service provider network. Once the telecommunication device has determined or received its current location the telecommunication device compares the current location to the list of specified locations to determine whether the current location is identical to or proximate to one of the specified locations. The presence of the home or office on the list of specified locations may have been entered by a user of the telecommunication device or may have been included by a telecommunication service provider that created the list of specified locations and provided the list to the user of the telecommunication device .

As further illustrated in and mentioned above the telecommunication device is attached to a charging component that may be plugged into a power outlet . The charging component may be a standard power cord or any sort of a number of power cords that are typically used with telecommunication devices. The power outlet may also be a typical power outlet as is found in any home or office . In other implementations the charging component is a universal serial bus USB cord and the power outlet is a USB port of a computing device.

In various implementations as mentioned above plugging the charging component into a power outlet generates a charging event that can be recognized by utilizing an application programming interface API of the telecommunication device platform. The telecommunication device may listen for charging events and upon detecting a charging event automatically enable the wireless communication transceiver to communicate over the wireless data network of the home or office .

In some implementations however the automatic enabling is performed conditionally. As mentioned above the automatic enabling may be performed conditionally based on whether the telecommunication device is at or proximate to a specified location. In addition to this the automatic enabling may also be performed conditionally based whether the battery power level of the telecommunication device exceeds a threshold or on whether a duration of time since the charging event exceeds a threshold. The thresholds the specified locations and indications of whether the automatic enabling is to be performed conditionally based on any one or more of the above factors may be found in settings of the telecommunication device that the telecommunication device may check before performing the automatic enabling. The reason for checking location battery power level or duration since the charging event is to ensure that the power consumed by the enabled wireless communication transceiver is accounted for by sufficient battery power or by a likelihood that the telecommunication device will be charging for a sufficient amount of time.

In other implementations the telecommunication device determines that the charging event represents the plugging of a USB cord into a USB port. In such implementations the telecommunication device may engage in data communication through the USB connection instead of enabling the wireless communication transceiver on the assumption that the computing device having the USB port is connected in a wired or wireless manner to network .

In various implementations once the telecommunication device has automatically enabled the wireless communication transceiver the telecommunication device establishes a connection with the access point over the wireless data network. As mentioned above the wireless data network may be a wireless LAN. In other implementations however the wireless data network may instead be a wireless wide area network WAN or wireless personal area network PAN or some combination of LANs WANs or PANs. The access point providing the wireless data network may be any sort of wireless router known in the art. The access point may be a dedicated wireless router or a multi function computing device or telecommunication device that is in turn connected to a router of an Internet service provider ISP such as a digital subscriber line DSL or cable modem. Through the ISP the access point is connected to a larger network such as the Internet.

Communication over the wireless data network may be in place or concurrent with communication over a telecommunication service provider network. Transfers of large data files for example may be reserved for communication over the wireless data network.

In some implementations network is the Internet. In other implementations network represents other WANs LANs PANs or any combination of these networks. As shown in one or more servers and storage devices may be accessible through the network to provide a number of data services to the telecommunication device . The servers and storage devices may in turn be any sort of computing devices known in the art that offer services or storage. These servers and storage devices may be associated with applications of the telecommunication device with the telecommunication service provider or may be any other sort of servers and storage devices. In one implementation servers and storage devices include a virtual data storage server offered by the telecommunication service provider and accessible over the Internet that provides a central back up repository for telecommunication device data such as media files and other contents.

Once the telecommunication device has established a wireless connection to the access point the telecommunication device performs one or more of downloading updates recovering data and backing up data. The download recovery and back up operations performed by the telecommunication device may in some implementations be specified by a list of applications requiring updates recovery or backing up. Such a list may be created by the telecommunication device concurrently with usage of applications and device features to capture and download media files and other content. Alternatively or additionally such a list may also be created based on calling of API functions offered by the telecommunication device to applications of the telecommunication device or to other devices or applications that are connected to the telecommunication device . Such API functions may register the applications or devices as requesting updating recovery or backing up. When the telecommunication device automatically enables the wireless communication transceiver then the telecommunication device may utilize the list to gather data to be backed up or to identify requested updates.

In some implementations the telecommunication device then communicates the data to be backed up to the servers or storage devices or downloads updates or recovery data from the servers or storage devices . The telecommunication device may continue to perform the downloading recovery or backing up until completed or until another event. Such other events could include a change in location in battery power level or a new charging event indicating that the charging component has been unplugged from the power outlet . In response to this other event the telecommunication device may also automatically disable the wireless communication transceiver .

In some embodiments the processor s is a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both CPU and GPU or any other sort of processing unit.

In various embodiments the interfaces are any sort of interfaces. Interfaces include any one or more of a wireless LAN interface or a near field interface. The a wireless LAN interface can include a Wi Fi interface or a Wi Max interface or a Bluetooth interface that performs the function of transmitting and receiving wireless communications using for example the IEEE 802.11 802.16 and or 802.20 standards. Such an interface may comprise logic or a device driver associated with a wireless communication transceiver such as a Wi Fi radio or a Wi Max radio and may provide a method that enables the wireless communication transceiver to be enabled or disabled. The near field interface can include a Bluetooth interface or RFID for transmitting and receiving near field radio communications via a near field antenna. For example the near field interface may be used for functions as is known in the art such as communicating directly with nearby devices that are also for instance Bluetooth or RFID enabled.

In various embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display or any other type of display commonly used in telecommunication devices. For example display may be a touch sensitive display screen and can then also act as an input device or keypad such as for providing a soft key keyboard navigation buttons or the like.

In some embodiments the transceivers include any sort of transceivers known in the art. For example transceivers may include a radio transceiver that performs in conjunction with an interface the function of transmitting and receiving radio frequency communications via an antenna. The radio interface may facilitate wireless connectivity between the telecommunication device and various cell towers base stations and or access points of a telecommunication service provider network. The transceivers may also include the wireless communication transceiver and the near field antenna for communicating over local wireless data networks and for near field communications respectively.

In some embodiments the output devices include any sort of output devices known in the art such as a display already described as display speakers a vibrating mechanism or a tactile feedback mechanism. Output devices also include ports for one or more peripheral devices such as headphones peripheral speakers or a peripheral display.

In various embodiments input devices include any sort of input devices known in the art. For example input devices may include a camera a microphone a keyboard keypad or a touch sensitive display such as the touch sensitive display screen described above . A keyboard keypad may be a push button numeric dialing pad such as on a typical telecommunication device a multi key keyboard such as a conventional QWERTY keyboard or one or more other types of keys or buttons and may also include a joystick like controller and or designated navigation buttons or the like.

The machine readable medium stores one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the memory and within the processor s during execution thereof by the telecommunication device . The memory and the processor s also may constitute machine readable media .

In various implementations battery may be any sort of telecommunication device battery known in the art. For example battery may be a lithium ion battery. Battery may be rechargeable through power received by an internal charging component . The internal charging component may comprise for example a charge port for receiving the charging component as well as other components known in the art and used to convey power from a charge port to a battery.

Wireless communication transceiver has been described above in detail. As mentioned above the wireless communication transceiver may be a Wi Fi or Wi Max radio and may be associated with an interface that offers methods for enabling and disabling the wireless communication transceiver .

In various embodiments memory generally includes both volatile memory and non volatile memory e.g. RAM ROM EEPROM Flash Memory miniature hard drive memory card optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium . Additionally in some embodiments memory includes a SIM subscriber identity module card which is a removable memory card used to identify a user of the telecommunication device to a service provider network. Memory can also be described as computer storage media and may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

As illustrated in the memory store data and modules . These modules may comprise methods threads processes applications or any other sort of executable instructions for performing the operations described for each below. Also any of the modules may form part of a telecommunication device platform that includes an operating system and applications or may instead be third party applications.

In various implementations the wireless enabling module is configured to automatically enable or disable the wireless communication transceiver . To determine when to perform the automatic enabling or disabling the wireless enabling module listens for the occurrence of charging events through an interface of the internal charging component . The interface may comprise one or more APIs that enable the wireless enabling module to determine the charging state of the telecommunication device . In other implementations rather than listening for charging events the wireless enabling module may periodically check the charging state of the telecommunication device by periodically invoking the API of the internal charging component interface.

In some implementations after detecting a charging event the wireless enabling module determines if the charging event was the plugging of a USB cord into a USB port of a computing device. If so then the wireless enabling module may refraining from automatically enabling the wireless communication transceiver and may instead engage in data communication over a USB connection between the telecommunication device and computing device performing the downloading recovery and backing up described below over the USB connection.

Alternatively or additionally the wireless enabling module may invoke the location determination module to determine the current location of the telecommunication device . In some implementations the wireless enabling module may perform this invoking periodically regardless of the charging state of the telecommunication device . In other implementations the location determination module may instead invoke the wireless enabling module in response to receiving a current telecommunication device location from a remote server and may instruct the wireless enabling module to automatically enable the wireless communication transceiver . Upon receiving the current location the wireless enabling module may compare the current location to a list of specified locations to determine if the telecommunication device is at or proximate to one of the specified locations. As discussed above the list of specified locations may be stored in settings of the telecommunication device .

In various implementations the wireless enabling module may then automatically enable the wireless communication transceiver based on the occurrence of the charging event or on the determination that the telecommunication device is at the specified location. In other implementations the wireless enabling module performs the automatic enabling conditionally based on telecommunication device settings . In such implementations following the detection of the charging event or the location determination the wireless enabling module checks the settings to determine whether there are conditions related to location battery power level or duration since the charging event. If there are conditions related to location the wireless enabling module invokes the location determination module in the manner described above if this has not occurred already to determine if the current location is one of a list of specified locations included in the settings . If there are conditions related to battery power level the wireless enabling module invokes the battery power module to determine the current battery power level. The wireless enabling module then compares the current battery power level to a threshold specified in the settings and proceeds with the automatic enabling off if the current battery power level meets or exceeds the threshold. If there are conditions related to a duration since the charging event the wireless enabling module may check a log of charging events that is maintained by the wireless enabling module or by the telecommunication device platform to determine the time at which the last charging event occurred. In some implementations the wireless enabling module then calculates a duration since that time and compares it to a threshold specified in the settings and proceeds with the automatic enabling off if the duration meets or exceeds the threshold.

In some implementations the wireless enabling module automatically enables the wireless communication transceiver upon ensuring that any conditions imposed by settings are met. To automatically enable the wireless communication transceiver the wireless enabling module may invoke a method offered by an interface of the wireless communication transceiver that switches the wireless communication transceiver to an on mode of operation. Either logic associated with the wireless communication transceiver or the wireless enabling module then establishes a connection with the access point across a wireless data network offered by the access point as is described above.

Once a connection over the wireless data network is established the wireless enabling module determines if there is any back up data to transmit or any software updates to download. The wireless enabling module may in some implementations keep a log of requests for downloads recoveries and back ups received from applications of the telecommunication device and upon connecting to the wireless data network may perform the downloads recoveries and back ups on behalf of the applications . In one implementation the wireless enabling module may cache the back up data that is to be stored on remote servers and storage devices . In other implementations the wireless enabling module may invoke the applications to obtain the back up data .

In some implementations rather than performing the back up operations recovery operations and downloads the wireless enabling module may notify the applications of the connection to the wireless data network enabling the applications to connect to and communicate with servers and storage devices .

In further implementations the wireless enabling module may automatically disable the wireless communication transceiver based on a further charging event e.g. disconnecting from the power outlet on a change in the current location or on a decrease in the battery power level below a threshold found in the settings . In some implementations the wireless enabling module may monitor for these events and changes.

In various implementations the location determination module may be invoked by the wireless enabling module as mentioned above. The wireless enabling module may invoke the location determination module periodically or in response to detection of a charging event. Once invoked the location determination module uses any of a number of location determination mechanisms at its disposal. For example if the telecommunication device is equipped with global positioning system GPS mechanisms the location determination module may utilize the GPS mechanism to determine the current telecommunication device location. In other implementations the location determination module may perform cell tower triangulation based on locations of cell towers having the strongest signals. In yet other implementations the location determination module may simply request the current location from a server of the telecommunication service provider network. Once the location determination module has determined the current location the location determination module may provide the current location to the wireless enabling module in a return message.

In other implementations rather than being invoked by the wireless enabling module the location determination module receives a message from a server of the telecommunication service provider network that includes the current location of the telecommunication device and an instruction to automatically enable the wireless communication transceiver . In response to receiving such a message the location determination module invokes the wireless enabling module providing the wireless enabling module with the current location and the instruction.

In some implementations the battery power module may be invoked by the wireless enabling module with a request for the current battery power level. In response the battery power module may check with an interface of the battery to determine its current level of charge and may provide that level of charge to the wireless enabling module in a response message. The current battery power level may be given as a fraction a percentage a decimal or any sort of number or textual or graphic description.

In various implementations settings may include conditions and lists or thresholds associated with those conditions. As described above settings may include conditions associated with location battery power level or duration since a charging event that must be met before the wireless enabling module automatically enables the wireless communication transceiver . The location condition may be associated with a list of specified locations. The battery power level and the duration since the charging event may each be associated with a threshold. The conditions locations and thresholds may be selected or set through a settings user interface offered by the telecommunication device that allows a user to select which of the conditions will apply and what the locations thresholds associated with those conditions will be. In some implementations the settings may comprise default settings that may be updated by a user. To check the conditions and their associated locations thresholds the wireless enabling module may retrieve the setting data by for example invoking one or more methods associated with the settings .

In some implementations the applications may be applications of the telecommunication device platform or may be third party applications. The applications may register with the wireless enabling module through an API and may request performance of download recovery or back up operations. If requesting a back up operation the applications may provide the back up data to the wireless enabling module for caching. In other implementations the applications may request that the wireless enabling module notify them when connectivity to a wireless data network is achieved and may then perform the back up recovery and download operations themselves by contacting servers or storage devices .

Back up data may be any sort of data such as media files or other content. For example back up data may include images or videos captured by a camera of telecommunication device or movies and songs downloaded to the telecommunication device . The back up data may be associated with an application and may be cached by the wireless enabling module prior to backing up to a remote server or storage device .

In various implementations the APIs may be any sort of APIs associated with logic and providing interfaces that allow one module to invoke methods of another module. In some implementations APIs include APIs of the wireless enabling module that enable applications to invoke methods of the wireless enabling module such as those described above. Also in some implementations APIs include APIs of the wireless enabling module that enable other devices or applications of other devices to invoke methods of the of the wireless enabling module such as those described above.

In some implementations the access point functionality of the telecommunication device enables the telecommunication device to serve as an access point for other devices providing a further wireless data network over which the other devices may communicate with the telecommunication device . The access point functionality may then further act as a router for traffic received from the other devices passing the traffic on to the access point for communication to the network .

At block the telecommunication device then optionally determines a location of the telecommunication device . At block the telecommunication device optionally determines a battery power level of the telecommunication device or on a duration of time since detecting the charging event.

At block the telecommunication device automatically enables a wireless communication transceiver of the telecommunication device to communicate over a wireless data network. In some implementations the telecommunication device performs the automatic enabling conditionally based on one or more settings of the telecommunication device associated with the determined location or battery power level. Also in some implementations the wireless communication transceiver is one of a Wi Fi radio or a Wi Max radio.

At block the telecommunication device performs at least one of downloading a software update recovering data or backing up data in response to the automatic enabling wherein the downloading recovering or backing up is performed over the wireless data network.

At block the telecommunication device engages in data communication through a USB connection with a computing device in place of automatically enabling the wireless communication transceiver . The telecommunication device engages in the data communication through the USB connection in response to detecting that the charging event comprises attachment of a universal serial bus USB cord of the telecommunication device to a USB port of the computing device.

At block the telecommunication device determines a battery power level of the telecommunication device .

At block the telecommunication device automatically enables a wireless communication transceiver of the telecommunication device to communicate over a wireless data network. In some implementations the automatic enabling is performed conditionally based at least in part on the battery power level exceeding a threshold the threshold defined by one or more settings of the telecommunication device .

At block the telecommunication device performs at least one of downloading a software update recovering data or backing up data in response to the automatic enabling wherein the downloading recovering or backing up is performed over the wireless data network.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims.

