---

title: Linear hearth furnace system and methods regarding same
abstract: Systems and methods for use in processing raw material (e.g., iron bearing material) include a linear furnace apparatus extending along a longitudinal axis between a charging end and a discharging end (e.g., the linear furnace apparatus includes at least a furnace zone positioned along the longitudinal axis). Raw material is provided into one or more separate or separable containers (e.g., trays) at the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus. The separate or separable containers are moved through at least the furnace zone and to the discharging end where the processed material is discharged resulting in one or more empty containers. One or more of the empty containers are returned to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus to receive further raw material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07875236&OS=07875236&RS=07875236
owner: Nu-Iron Technology, LLC
number: 07875236
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100223
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 194 303 filed Aug. 19 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 666 249 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 7 413 592 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 558 197 filed Mar. 31 2004 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention was made with support by the Economic Development Administration Grant No. 06 69 04501. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to systems apparatus and or methods for use in the processing of metal bearing material e.g. the reduction of iron bearing materials such as iron oxide using a direct reduction process .

Hearth furnaces have been manufactured for decades and present a proven technology for various purposes including reduction of metal bearing materials. Such furnaces have been widely used in the mineral industry for drying preheating roasting calcining steel plant waste treatment iron ore reduction and production of metallic iron nuggets. A process to produce direct reduced iron DRI may involve the following generalized processing steps feed preparation drying furnace charging preheating reduction cooling product discharge and product passivation. A process to produce metallic iron nuggets may involve all of the steps for producing direct reduced iron plus a high temperature step in which the metallic iron formed is fused to form metallic iron nuggets and the associated slag melts and segregates from the iron. In addition a physical separation step is generally required to separate the metallic iron nuggets from the slag and furnace hearth layer after the products have cooled and solidified.

Various issues related to the design of such furnaces e.g. those used to produce DRI or metallic iron nuggets include but are clearly not limited to material handling engineering construction maintenance flue gas treatment to remove particulates and recover sensible heat and in some cases provide it as make up gas hearth integrity and overall system reliability.

One type of hearth furnace referred to as a rotary hearth furnace RHF has been adapted for the production of DRI and metallic iron nuggets. Several rotary hearth furnaces have been built for DRI production. For example one such RHF is used in the FASTMET process developed by Midrex Corporation and is described in the article Development of the FASTMET as a New Direct Reduction Process by Miyagawa et al. 1998 ICSTI IRONMAKING Conference Proceedings.

The RHF has also been used to produce metallic iron nuggets. For example such processes include the ITmk3 process described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 036 744 to Negami et al. entitled Method and apparatus for making metallic iron and also the QIP process described in the article New coal based process Hi QIP to produce high quality DRI for the EAF by Sawa et al. ISIJ International Vol. 41 2001 .

Processing in a typical RHF operation may include forming balls briquets or similar agglomerates composed of a mixture of iron ore reductants e.g. coal anthracite coke etc. various slagging constituents e.g. lime hydrate fluorspar soda ash etc. water and binders e.g. bentonite or lime hydrate . The agglomerates may be dried in a separate drying oven and charged to the hearth of the furnace in a charging zone thereof or perhaps wet agglomerates may be charged directly to the hearth of the furnace in the charging zone.

The hearth is rotated to carry the agglomerates from the charging zone into a preheat zone of the RHF where the temperature is increased so as to drive off most of the volatile matter from the coal and other additives. Further rotation of the hearth carries the agglomerates into a higher temperature reduction zone where the carbonaceous constituents react with the iron oxide in the agglomerates to reduce the iron therein to metallic iron. Still further rotation of the hearth carries the largely reduced agglomerates into a high temperature fusion zone of the RHF where the iron melts and fuses to form iron nuggets and the slag fuses and separates from the metallic iron. Yet further rotation of the hearth carries the charge into the cooling zone of the furnace where both the iron and slag solidify. The hearth materials are then discharged for supplementary cooling and passivation.

One will recognize that in the production of DRI the high temperature fusion and melting zone would not be included in the RHF. Rather the solid DRI produced in the reduction zone would be cooled discharged and passivated.

The RHF has various inherent limitations. For example feed distribution to the RHF is difficult because of the difference between the annular speed of the near and far sides of the hearth. Further the feed must be pre dried i.e. if RHF area has to be dedicated to drying the remainder of the RHF area available for production of DRI is reduced.

In addition feedstock in the form of balls are considered a favored feedstock for iron ore concentrates to be used in a direct reduction process. Such balls are inherently fragile especially when they contain nearly 40 volume of pulverized coal. Heat treatment of such balls in a RHF is generally non uniform i.e. balls on the short radius of the annular hearth receive intense direct radiation from wall burners for an appreciably greater length of time than those on the outer radius.

Further discharge of such balls from the hearth requires that they maintain their physical integrity after reduction which is often a problem. The balls are for example augered off the annular hearth and breakage could lead to jamming of the rotary hearth damage to the hearth or damage to an auger used for such discharge.

Various other limitations of the RHF relate to its physical construction. For example the physical arrangement of a RHF necessarily leads to the cold feed side being next to the hot discharge side resulting in congestion and material handling complications. Further the circular arrangement makes construction difficult e.g. refractory side walls burners all have to be configured in a circular design and the center of the RHF is congested and difficult to access for maintenance. Further the design of the RHF due to its circular arrangement has size limitations placed thereon e.g. about 60 meters diameter . For example the hearth is generally massive and as such problems in rotating such a large hearth increase with its size.

In addition to the RHF other types of furnaces have also been described. For example a paired straight hearth PSH furnace is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 257 879B1 to Lu et al. issued Jul. 10 2001 entitled Paired straight hearth PSH furnaces for metal oxide reduction. 

The PSH furnace generally includes a pair of straight moving hearth furnaces located side by side each having a charging end and a discharging end. Each furnace has a train of detachable hearth sections to enable each hearth section to be removed at the discharging end of one furnace and attached at the charging end of the other furnace. In other words charge is moved by two straight hearth furnaces from one end to the other i.e. two parallel solid flows in opposite directions using two side by side parallel furnaces. The first flow includes a first feed end a paired furnace and a first discharge end. The second flow includes a second feed end a paired furnace and a second discharge end. After the charge loaded in a hearth section at the feed end of each flow passes through one of the paired furnaces the charge is discharged and the hearth section is moved to the feed or charging end of the other flow to receive new charge.

However the PSH furnace also has associated problems. For example the charging end of one of the paired furnaces is right next to the discharging end of the other paired furnace. As such there is no separation between the hot and cold ends of the paired furnaces. Further in the PSH furnace it is necessary to duplicate both charge delivery and product removal systems at each end of the furnace. This requires a complicated distribution system or for example doubling the charge metering system for multiple components and the blending and drying systems.

The systems apparatus and or methods according to the present invention overcome one or more of the problems described herein relating to other previously used or described hearth furnace systems. One method according to the present invention for use in processing raw material e.g. iron bearing material includes providing a linear furnace apparatus extending along a longitudinal axis between a charging end and a discharging end wherein the linear furnace apparatus includes at least a furnace zone positioned along the longitudinal axis. Raw material e.g. raw material that includes an iron bearing material to be processed is provided into one or more separate or separable containers e.g. one or more separate or separable passive containers that lack self mobility one or more separate or separable containers that include an underlying substructure supporting a refractory material one or more containers that include an underlying substructure that has a floating planar bottom panel coupled to a frame portion such that the floating planar bottom panel is allowed to expand relative to the frame portion one or more containers that includes a planar bottom panel having one or more slot openings defined therein so as to minimize warping in high temperatures etc. at the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus wherein each of the separate or separable containers includes refractory material. The method further includes moving the one or more separate or separable containers through at least the furnace zone and to the discharging end of the linear furnace apparatus resulting in processed material in the one or more separate or separable containers. The processed material is discharged from the one or more separate or separable containers resulting in one or more empty containers. One or more empty containers are returned to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus to receive further raw material.

In one embodiment the linear furnace apparatus includes at least a preheat zone a furnace zone e.g. including furnace sub zones such as a reduction zone a fusion melting zone etc. and a cooling zone e.g. a water jacket positioned along the longitudinal axis between the charging end and the discharging end.

In another embodiment at least one of the preheat zone the furnace zone and the cooling zone is configured using multiple modular linear sections corresponding to the particular zone being configured to allow lengthening or shortening of the at least one zone along the longitudinal axis. The use of modular linear sections may also facilitate repair of the linear furnace apparatus. Further the linear furnace apparatus may include one or more conduits that allow movement of one or more gases between one or more of the preheat zone the furnace zone the cooling zone and sub zones thereof.

In another embodiment of the method moving the one or more separate or separable containers may be performed using a walking beam configuration e.g. a walking beam configuration that is substantially mechanically sealed . For example each of the one or more separate or separable containers may be supported by one or more transport beams e.g. beams of insulating material of the walking beam configuration as the one or more separate or separable containers are moved along the longitudinal axis of the linear furnace apparatus and through the furnace zone.

In another embodiment of the method discharging the processed material from the one or more separate or separable containers includes tilting the one or more separate or separable containers to discharge the processed material using at least gravity.

In yet further embodiments of the method returning the one or more empty containers to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus may include immediately returning the one or more empty containers to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus returning the one or more empty containers to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus in an upright state and or returning the one or more empty containers to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus using a container return apparatus located directly below the linear furnace apparatus.

To facilitate maintenance of the systems the method may further include removing one or more of the empty containers and replacing the one or more removed empty containers with one or more different empty containers.

A system for use in processing raw material according to the present invention is also described. The system may include one or more separate or separable containers configured to receive raw material e.g. separate or separable containers that include refractory material . Further the system includes a linear furnace apparatus extending along a longitudinal axis between a charging end and a discharging end. The linear furnace apparatus includes at least a furnace zone positioned along the longitudinal axis. The linear furnace apparatus is configured to move the one or more separate or separable containers e.g. one or more separate or separable passive containers that lack self mobility through at least the furnace zone and to the discharging end thereof for use in processing raw material received in the one or more separate or separable containers. Further the linear furnace apparatus includes a discharge apparatus at the discharging end of the linear furnace apparatus operable to discharge processed raw material from the one or more separate or separable containers resulting in one or more empty containers e.g. an apparatus operable to tilt the one or more separate or separable containers to discharge processed material therefrom using at least gravity . Yet further the system includes a container return apparatus operable to return one or more empty containers to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus to receive further raw material.

In one embodiment of the system the linear furnace apparatus includes at least a preheat zone a furnace zone and a cooling zone positioned along the longitudinal axis between the charging end and the discharging end e.g. one or more of the zones configured using multiple modular linear sections corresponding to the particular zone being configured to allow lengthening or shortening of the at least one zone along the longitudinal axis . Further one or more of the zones may be divided into sub zones by one or more baffle structures and one or more conduits may allow movement of one or more gases between one or more of the preheat zone the furnace zone the cooling zone and sub zones thereof.

In another embodiment of the system the linear furnace apparatus includes a walking beam configuration e.g. a walking beam configuration that is substantially mechanically sealed . The walking beam configuration may include one or more transport beams configured to support one or more separate or separable containers and operable to move the one or more separate or separable containers along the longitudinal axis of the linear furnace apparatus and through the furnace zone.

In yet further embodiments of the system the container return apparatus may be operable to immediately return the one or more empty containers to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus the container return apparatus may be operable to return the one or more empty containers to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus in an upright state and or the container return apparatus is located directly below the linear furnace apparatus.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. Advantages together with a more complete understanding of the invention will become apparent and appreciated by referring to the following detailed description and claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present invention shall generally be described with reference to . One or more detailed embodiments of the present invention shall then be described with reference to . It will become apparent to one skilled in the art that elements from one embodiment may be used in combination with elements of the other embodiments and that the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein but only as described in the accompanying claims. Further it will be recognized that the embodiments of the present invention described herein will include many elements that are not necessarily shown to scale.

For example the one or more zones may include a feed zone e.g. a zone that provides a buffer zone ahead of high temperature zones so that containers are not inserted directly into such high temperature environments subjecting the container and the charge thereon to unacceptable thermal shock a preheat zone e.g. a zone for drying raw material being processed or driving off undesirable volatile components of the raw material a furnace zone e.g. reduction zone and fusion melting zone operable to carry out a majority of the chemical reaction used in processing the raw material at relatively high temperatures a cooling zone e.g. a zone used to cool resulting processed material before discharge or any other zone necessary for performing the desired processing. One skilled in the art will recognize that any number of zones may exist between the charging end and the discharging end and that the zones listed herein are only exemplary of the types of zones that may be used in accordance with the present invention.

The linear furnace apparatus is configured to move one or more separate or separable containers through at least the furnace zone e.g. reduction zone and or fusion melting zone to the discharging end for use in processing the raw material received in the one or more separate or separable containers . The one or more separate or separable containers are moved along longitudinal axis of the linear furnace apparatus using a container moving apparatus .

In addition to the linear furnace apparatus the LHF system includes a container return apparatus operable to return one or more empty containers to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus to receive raw material for processing. The LHF system further includes a discharge and transfer apparatus at the discharging end of the linear furnace apparatus operable to discharge processed raw material from the one or more separate or separable containers resulting in one or more empty containers and provide the empty containers to the container return apparatus . A transfer apparatus at the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus provides for transfer of the one or more empty containers between the container return apparatus and the container moving apparatus .

In general and as shown in the LHF system is used to move one or more containers from the charging end to the discharging end using the container moving apparatus . Thereafter one or more empty containers are returned from the discharging end to the charging end of the same linear furnace apparatus using the container return apparatus .

Generally the one or more separate or separable containers may include any container configured for holding raw material to be processed by the LHF system . Preferably the one or more separate or separable containers include one or more separate or separable passive containers. As used herein a passive container lacks self mobility. For example a passive container is one that lacks wheels or any other elements that allows the container to move on its own. For example a wheeled cart or a wheeled container is not a passive container.

Each container includes a refractory material upon which the raw material to be processed is received. The refractory material may be used to form the container e.g. the container itself may be formed of a refractory material and or the container may include for example a supporting substructure that carries a refractory material e.g. a refractory lined container such as with a refractory material being located or mounted within a container apparatus or a tray formed of a non refractory material such as stainless steel .

In other words for example the container including the refractory material could be fabricated from a refractory material without a separate refractory material being provided in a supporting substructure. For example the container could be formed from a silicon refractory and as such would not need to be lined by a separate refractory material.

One embodiment of a refractory lined container or substructure is shown in . The container includes a tray lined with refractory material that defines a raw material receiving region . In other words the container includes a supporting substructure that carries a lightweight refractory bed on which the raw material is placed. The support for the containers while in transit through the furnace at the discharging end and throughout the return of the containers to the charging end is such that the supporting substructure e.g. tray that carries the refractory does not require structural integrity due to the supporting substructure being essentially completely supported by the transport components of the system including for example the walking beams side and center beams transfer tables or rollers. With such support being provided throughout the process the supporting substructure can be fabricated from lightweight materials and does not require massive structural design. This is unlike hearth sections that are supported by rollers at their ends.

In other words the LHF system includes a system of moving a container of raw material for processing through the linear furnace apparatus using a container moving apparatus and then back to the charging end using a container return apparatus . The components of the container return apparatus the container moving apparatus and the transfer apparatus and are such that they provide uniform and continuous support as the containers are moved from the charging end to the discharging end and then back again to the charging end . As such the containers themselves may be constructed in a manner that does not require structural integrity e.g. they are continuously supported by other apparatus as they are moved .

The supporting substructure or tray may be formed from one or more different materials such as for example stainless steel carbon steel inconel metal or other metals alloys or combinations thereof that have the required high temperature characteristics for furnace processing. Further the tray may be configured in one or more different shapes depending upon the configuration of the LHF system or the configuration of one or more components thereof. For example the container moving apparatus may require that the tray be of a particular configuration such that it can effectively move the container along the longitudinal axis of the linear furnace apparatus . As shown in the tray is constructed as a square tray including a bottom planar portion and four side walls extending from edges of the bottom planar portion .

Like the tray the refractory may be formed in any configuration such that it defines the raw material receiving region for receiving raw material when used in conjunction with the tray . The refractory material may be for example refractory board e.g. such as Thermotect A Thermotect 80 or Thermotect HT available from Vesuvius USA Bettsville Ohio refractory brick as shown in ceramic brick or a castable refractory. Further for example as shown and described herein a combination of refractory fiber board and refractory brick may be selected to provide maximum thermal protection for an underlying substructure container or tray while maintaining a lighter weight for the tray.

As used herein the term separate when describing containers refers to containers that are completely separated at all times. Further as used herein the term separable when describing containers refers to containers that are at least completely separable from each other at the charging end and or the discharging end of the LHF system . In other words in one embodiment the containers include separable containers that are mechanically linked together to prevent shifting and separating from each other as they are transported through the furnace but then completely separable at the discharging end of the LHF system for discharge and return to the feed end of the furnace. In another embodiment the containers include separate containers that are completely separate at all times. However whether completely separate at all times or completely separable only at the charging end and discharging end each container can be discharged and returned to the charging end for provision of raw material therein. Further the container may be inspected and if in a failure mode removed and a new container installed without affecting furnace operation. This is contrary to a RHF system wherein a hearth failure requires complete shutdown of the entire system.

The technique of using containers according to the present invention in the LHF system is substantially different than in a RHF system. In a RHF system a massive refractory ring is carried on a series of tracks. It must be relatively thick to provide sufficient mass to protect the supporting tracks and bearings from the furnace temperatures. Generally the RHF system is in continuous service and only slightly cooled as it passes through the cooling and loading zones.

In contrast the containers in the LHF system are preferably provided such that they carry a relatively thin lightweight refractory bed that is supported in a metal container e.g. substructure or tray as described above at least in one embodiment of the present invention. The retention time of the container in the linear furnace apparatus is relatively short for example only about 10 minutes in the high temperature zone for a direct reduction process e.g. in reduction zone and fusion melting zone . The relatively light refractory load also results in a thermal capacity of the containers being relatively low such that they will cool rapidly in the cooling and discharging stages of a direct reduction process and during a return to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus such containers are cool enough to accept wet or dry agglomerate.

The cross section of shows the addition of a raw material being received within the raw material receiving region . One will recognize that the raw material may be provided into the container or any other container according to the present invention in any manner or form. For example the raw material may be in the form of balls powdered material multiple layers or any other endless number of different configurations for the effective processing of the raw material .

The raw material may be any material suitable for processing by the LHF system . Preferably the raw material includes an iron bearing material. In one embodiment of the present invention the raw material includes an iron bearing material e.g. iron oxide material and a carbonaceous material e.g. a carbonaceous reductant such as coal charcoal or coke . Further the raw material may include other additives to enhance the physical characteristics of wet or dry agglomerates e.g. green balls prepared from the blended components or mixtures charged in the containers and other additives to facilitate reduction of the iron oxide material and control the chemistry and physical characteristics of the associated slag phases during processing.

In other words generally according to the present invention the raw material fed to the LHF system e.g. to the raw material receiving region defined by container may be any material suitable for processing by the linear furnace apparatus and is not restricted by any components listed herein. However preferably at least in one embodiment the raw material includes at least an iron bearing material e.g. iron oxide material iron ore concentrate recyclable iron bearing material etc. such that metallized iron product or metallic iron nuggets are formed after a direct iron reduction process is carried out using the LHF system .

As will be recognized by one skilled in the art the raw material will depend at least in part upon the processing to be performed by the LHF system . For example appropriate and suitable raw material will vary for the production of fired pellets fluxed pellets conventional DRI pellets pre reduction of steel plant wastes and the production of metallic iron nuggets as well as for products formed by other high temperature furnace applications such as calcining of carbonate fluxes thermal treatment of bloating clays firing of clay rich industrial waste products from paper mills singly or in combination with power plant ash to produce light weight aggregate.

In yet another embodiment according to the present invention the raw material may be any material used or operated on by a rotary hearth furnace RHF . In other words the same type of raw materials may be used according to the present invention in the LHF system as used in RHF systems.

In particular the LHF system is beneficial in production of metallic iron nuggets using direct reduction processing techniques. As such a substantial portion of the remaining description shall be with respect to the use of the LHF system and any embodiments thereof for direct reduction processing. However the present invention is not limited to only direct reduction processes but may be used to process any other suitable raw materials.

With further reference to at the charging end of the LHF system the transfer apparatus is configured to move an empty container from the container return apparatus to the container moving apparatus . The configuration of the transfer apparatus will at least in part depend upon the configuration of the container return apparatus and the container moving apparatus and their relative location with respect to one another. The transfer apparatus may include any configuration suitable for moving the empty container to a location for accepting raw material and thereafter allowing the filled container to be provided to the container moving apparatus such that it can be moved through the one or more zones of the linear furnace apparatus .

For example the transfer apparatus may include one or more of the following hydraulic or mechanical lift and pushing mechanisms ball bearing roller transfer tables centering and alignment guides mechanical linkages for automatic opening and closing of charging doors electronic sensors and actuators to control related operations. One embodiment of a transfer apparatus is shown and shall be described with reference to .

Generally as shown in the container return apparatus is positioned directly below the container moving apparatus as well as other portions of the linear furnace apparatus . As such the transfer apparatus is configured as a lift and lowering mechanism represented by arrow to assist in moving a container transfer device and a container provided thereon between the container return apparatus and the container moving apparatus .

At the discharge end as shown in the discharge and transfer apparatus provides a discharge apparatus for discharging processed material from one or more of the containers resulting in one or more empty containers . The discharge apparatus may be any mechanism effective for providing discharge of processed material resulting from the processing performed by the LHF system . For example the discharge apparatus may include mechanisms for removing processed material with use of gravity mechanical removal of processed material e.g. using wipers blades rotary screw devices or other mechanical elements for contacting and moving the processed material etc.

In one embodiment discharge of processed material from the one or more containers employs the tilting of one or more containers at an angle effective for allowing the processed material to slide off the containers using gravity. As will be discussed further herein the cooling zone of the linear furnace apparatus allows sufficient time for complete solidification of fused processed material in the form of for example metallic iron nuggets before they are dumped with the use of gravity resulting in the clean discharge of processed material from the containers .

However other mechanical assist devices may be used in combination with gravity if or as required to facilitate such a clean discharge of processed material. For example vibration as well as other mechanical elements for scraping or pushing processed raw material from the containers may be used. Such mechanical assist devices may be used for removal of any material that for example sticks to the container before the empty container is returned to the charging end of the LHF system .

The transfer apparatus also includes a container transfer device for moving an empty container after processed material is discharged therefrom to the container return apparatus . As described with reference to the container transfer device the container transfer device may include any transfer mechanism effective for transfer of the empty container to the container return apparatus and will depend at least in part on the general construction and relative location of the container moving apparatus and the container return apparatus . For example one or more various mechanisms such hydraulic or mechanical lift and pushing mechanisms ball bearing roller transfer tables centering and alignment guides mechanical linkages for automatic opening and closing of doors electronic sensors and actuators to control related operations powered rollers passive rollers centering rollers etc. may be used to perform such functionality.

In one embodiment as generally shown in where the container return apparatus is directly positioned below the container moving apparatus and also other components of the linear furnace apparatus the container transfer device may include a lift and lowering mechanism to perform such functionality as shown generally by arrow . Other mechanisms may be used to provide an effective transfer of the empty containers to the container return apparatus such as that described with reference to .

Upon receipt of the raw material into one or more separate or separable containers at the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus the one or more containers are provided to the container moving apparatus for movement along longitudinal axis through the one or more zones of the linear furnace apparatus . One skilled in the art will recognize that the one or more zones will depend upon the processing necessary for the raw material . However generally in one or more embodiments of the linear furnace apparatus the one or more zones include at least the preheat zone a furnace zone e.g. one or more zones wherein a substantial portion of a chemical reaction takes place to modify the properties of the raw material such as a reduction zone and the fusion melting zone and a cooling zone all positioned along the longitudinal axis between the charging end and the discharging end .

One or more of the zones may be configured using multiple modular linear sections corresponding to the particular zone being configured in order to allow lengthening or shortening of the at least one zone along the longitudinal axis . For example the preheat zone may be lengthened by adding sections configured for preheating raw material e.g. sections that are all constructed in substantially the same manner and configuration .

In one embodiment the LHF system is constructed with a series of identical modules with required burners gas and air connections off gas ports etc. such that the LHF system may be easily constructed at effective costs. Such a modular construction will facilitate furnace repair if failures occur therein for example a refractory failure in one or more portions thereof.

Further one or more of the zones may be divided into sub zones by one or more baffle structures . For example the furnace zone as shown in is divided into the reduction zone and the fusion melting zone by a baffle structure . Further the various zones such as the preheat zone and the furnace zone may also be separated by a baffle structure . Zones which are divided into sub zones with appropriate baffle structures may allow closer control of temperature and furnace gas distribution. However such baffle structures e.g. baffle structures creating sub zones or those between zones are only optional as processing may be carried out in a furnace that has no baffle structures e.g. temperature may vary within the zone but movement of gases in the zone is continuous and not hindered with baffle structures .

The linear furnace apparatus is a counter flow design in that the gas flow is counter to the movement of the containers and process material therein. The combustion gases produced by burners in all three zones and combined with water vapor organic volatiles flux calcinations products and chemical reaction products eventually exit the furnace via flue . In other words discharge flue is the primary process flue. In at least one embodiment of the present invention eventually all gases combustion products water vapor volatiles from coal or fluxes and reaction products exit the process through discharge flue . However internal recycling between the principal zones of the furnace e.g. zones and is allowed e.g. such as with use of additional flues or conduits .

A quench chamber is connected in line with the exit flue and is equipped with water sprays to cool the discharge e.g. gases flowing therethrough. Further connected in line with the discharge flue is a pressure control valve and a variable speed exhaust fan that vents the cooled gases to a discharge stack . The variable speed exhaust fan in conjunction with the pressure control valve at least in this embodiment is used to control the pressure inside the linear furnace apparatus using conventional pressure sensors and feedback control technology to control the infusion of ambient air into the linear furnace apparatus e.g. with use of controller .

It will be clear that exhausting hot gases from the furnace apparatus can be implemented in various different manners to remove particulates and recuperate heat energy. The above description is only one exemplary embodiment of providing such exhausting of the hot gases.

Yet further the linear furnace apparatus may include one or more conduits e.g. similar to flue to allow movement of one or more gases between the preheat zone the furnace zone or sub zones thereof. The conduits or flues may be incorporated into the system to allow bypass of portions of the furnace gases between zones to facilitate chemical reactions.

With yet further reference to the container moving apparatus for moving the containers through the zones positioned along the longitudinal axis of the linear furnace apparatus may be configured in any manner suitable for providing movement of the containers from the charging end to the discharging end . The container moving apparatus is shown generally in as being sealed using a structural enclosure to represent that the container moving apparatus is preferably a substantially mechanically sealed apparatus such that gases in the zones are retained therein and unacceptable infiltration of ambient air into such zones is prevented.

As used herein substantially mechanically sealed means that the only openings to the linear furnace apparatus include an inlet opening into the linear furnace apparatus e.g. where a container is received into the linear furnace apparatus at feed zone and an outlet opening at the discharge end of the furnace apparatus e.g. at the end of the cooling zone where a container is provided to the transfer apparatus and that both inlet and outlet are fitted with sealed doors that are only opened as required to allow the insertion or ejection of containers from the furnace thereby minimizing infiltration of ambient air therein. For example as described herein such inlet and outlet may include closure apparatus e.g. see closure apparatus of that opens only when necessary e.g. such that a container can be moved therethrough so as to minimize the infusion of ambient air into the furnace or gases from escaping from the interior of the furnace.

Various container moving apparatus may be used to move the separate or separable containers through the linear furnace apparatus e.g. steel belt systems continuous chain rollers linked insulated pads walking beams or by sliding the containers on fixed rails . In one embodiment according to the present invention the container moving apparatus includes a walking beam configuration. As used herein the term walking beam configuration refers to any apparatus that is operable to lift and shift forward the trays or containers through the linear furnace apparatus along the longitudinal axis thereof.

One embodiment of such a walking beam configuration is shown and shall be described with reference to . As shown therein each of the one or more containers is supported by one or more transport beams of the walking beam configuration as the containers are moved along the longitudinal axis of linear furnace apparatus and through one or more of the zones . Preferably one or more transport beams include an insulating material in contact with one or more of the containers and the walking beam configuration is substantially mechanically sealed.

In other words the LHF system provides for effective sealing of the linear furnace apparatus to prevent the unacceptable infiltration of ambient air into one or more zones thereof. Generally as described previously herein the linear furnace apparatus is designed as a substantially mechanically sealed unit e.g. with walking beam configuration or other transporting system being enclosed within the sealed furnace . Ingress of air is limited to the feed inlet at the charging end and the outlet at the discharging end of the linear furnace apparatus . Such inlet and outlet of the linear furnace apparatus are configured to minimize the amount of ambient air reaching the interior of the zones . For example various doors curtains or other structural impediments to the movement of air into one or more of the zones are utilized at the charging end and discharging end of the LHF system .

The container return apparatus used to return the empty containers from the discharging end to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus may include any suitable transfer apparatus that accomplishes such functionality. For example and as shown in the container return apparatus may include a belt and rollers configuration powered to provide a return of the empty container to the charging end . Further for example the container return apparatus may be an apparatus as described herein with reference to . Yet further the container return apparatus may be configured as continuous chains steel cables or a transport cart e.g. a transport cart such as described with reference to to deliver the containers singly or as linked container pods back to the charging end of the furnace e.g. the transport cart is then returned to the discharging end to receive another load of one or more containers . Such a cart may be driven by a cable arrangement motor driven cog wheel or similar drive mechanism. One or more transport carts could be paired so that containers can be loaded and discharged simultaneously at each end to facilitate movement of the containers.

Preferably the container return apparatus provides for the immediate return of the one or more empty containers to the charging end of the linear furnace apparatus . As used herein the term immediate refers to the return of the empty container to the charging end with no time spent at a location for additional cooling or other processing steps.

The container return apparatus is also preferably configured to return the empty container to the charging end in an upright state. In other words preferably the transfer apparatus provides for the transfer of the upright and emptied containers i.e. after being discharged by discharge apparatus to the container return apparatus in an upright state. This upright state is maintained as the empty containers are moved to the charging end . As such for example refractory material lining the trays is maintained in its desired position and is not lost during return of the container to the charging end .

In one embodiment of the present invention one or more of the empty containers may be removed from the container return apparatus . The empty containers may or may not be replaced with a different empty container . For example the empty containers may be removed as required for repair and maintenance.

As shown in the linear furnace apparatus and the container return apparatus may be separated by a heat shield material e.g. material such as mild steel ceramic refractory or refractory fiberboard . The heat shield material provides for additional separation of the hot linear furnace apparatus from the container return apparatus which is located directly below the linear furnace apparatus . The LHF system is positioned and supported on a suitable pad e.g. concrete .

As shown generally in the zones may be defined by walls formed from a wall material e.g. steel refractory brick castable refractory insulating fiber blocks or board or combinations thereof . Generally an insulating material is used to line the walls to retain heat. For example such insulating material may include steel plate insulating fiber block or refractory bricks or castable refractory.

One or more of the zones are provided with temperature modification apparatus . Such temperature modification apparatus may include gas burners as shown generally in

Various processing advantages may be available using one or more embodiments of the LHF system according to the present invention. Such advantages are described with respect to various steps employed for processing the raw material using the LHF system with some comparison to previously available RHF systems. Further such advantages are described with respect to direct reduction processes of iron bearing material but may be equally applicable to other furnace processing.

Generally a raw material is fed to the LHF system in a direct reduction process. For example the raw material may include iron ore concentrate or other iron bearing material a carbonaceous reductant such as coals of various grades including coal charcoal or coke fluxing agents such as lime or lime hydrate a binding agent to aid agglomeration such as bentonite or lime hydrate and water. One skilled in the art will recognize that this is an illustrative type of raw material and does not limit the types of materials with which the LHF system may be used. Further for example the raw material provided in the process may be in the form of green balls prepared from a blend of components such as components selected from those described above or may be provided by providing one or more layers of a blend of one or more of such components or of the components themselves.

The requirements for mixing and blending the desired components in proper proportions will vary depending upon other parameters required to carry out the direct reduction processing. One will recognize that any number of direct reduction processing parameters and techniques may be carried out using the LHF system and that the present invention is not limited to any particular direct reduction process. Many of such processes are described in the art and as such will not be described in great detail herein. However the various steps that may benefit from the use of the LHF system shall be described.

Drying of the raw material is generally necessary. For example mixing and blending of the raw material is normally performed in a wet state e.g. the blend may contain from 5 15 moisture . If the raw material is agglomerated e.g. either formed into balls or briquettes then the agglomerates have to be dried under carefully controlled conditions to avoid decrepitation loss of integrity of the agglomerates and release of excess dust.

In conventional RHF systems normally an external system is used to form the agglomerates and the agglomerates are then transferred to the RHF furnace for direct reduction processing. Such dried agglomerates are inherently fragile and cannot be readily conveyed to feed hoppers as breakage occurs in both roller and vibrating feeders. Such breakage is generally overcome by adding excessive amounts of binders such as bentonite or by adding lime and using extended heat treatment to develop a carbonate bond or by other pre treatment methods. Such additions are costly and also in the case of bentonite such additions add unwanted slagging components to the mix that require additional fluxing agents and thermal energy to process.

Charging a green ball e.g. a non dried agglomerate compared to a dried agglomerate is much easier. The non dried agglomerates can absorb multiple transfers without excessive breakage or dusting and can be more easily transferred to the furnace. However drying of such green balls in a RHF is problematic in that there is a practical limit to the hearth diameter and if a portion has to be reserved for drying then it has an adverse effect on productivity related to the final product. Further in the RHF the hearth itself is massive and reaches very high temperatures in the final fusion zone in direct reduction processing. Such high temperatures would still be too high at the feed point in an RHF to accept wet agglomerates without excessive decrepitation.

According to the present invention the LHF system overcomes such problems of a RHF system. First the containers are designed to be comparatively light with relatively low heat capacity so that by the time they have been discharged at the discharging end and returned to the charging end the empty containers have cooled to the point that wet agglomerate feeding of raw material is acceptable.

Second the preheat zone can be easily implemented in the LHF system by merely adding length to the linear furnace apparatus . For example by enclosing a section of space and allowing latent heat in the containers to dry the wet agglomerate provided therein such a preheat zone may be implemented. As previously described herein the preheat zone or a drying zone may be added in modular sections depending upon the necessary drying requirements. In other words there are no restrictions on length of the preheat zone unlike the RHF.

Third drying in the preheat zone may be accomplished using off gases from one or more of the other zones . For example if necessary or desirable a portion of the hot off gases from the direct reduction process in the furnace zone or a sub zone thereof can be circulated through the preheat zone to expedite the drying process.

With respect to the loading of the linear furnace apparatus preferably the raw material provided to the furnace is distributed uniformly across the width of the furnace to achieve efficient reduction and maintain productivity. The LHF system allows the use of off the shelf feeding components and minimizes distribution problems therein. For example such off the shelf feeding components may include roller vibrating oscillating belt or apron belt feeders. In contrast a RHF system must deal with the differential movement between inner and outer portions of the circular hearth that make uniform feed distribution more difficult.

The LHF system according to the present invention can duplicate any time temperature thermal cycle currently used in a RHF system. For example the linear furnace apparatus can be divided into as many zones as required e.g. by providing various temperature differences across one or more zones and or by installation of optional baffle structures . The recycling of off gases from one zone to another can be controlled as easily in one as the other. In other words the thermal cycling in the preheat zone reduction zone and fusion melting zone for performing a direct reduction process e.g. a metallic nugget formation process can easily be controlled in the LHF system according to the present invention.

Further the linear furnace apparatus is preferably designed such that the distribution of temperature modification apparatus e.g. gas burners is symmetrical. This is generally shown in wherein each zone is provided with a symmetrical number of gas burners on each side of the linear furnace apparatus . As such the LHF system provides a significant advantage over a RHF system where the positioning of burners to achieve uniform heating across a 3 4 meter wide bed is more difficult because of the differential between the linear velocity of the inner and outer edges of the RHF system. A direct reduction process generally requires closely controlled time and temperature as the raw material is moved through the processing zones. Such control is provided at least in part by the symmetrical distribution of the burners e.g. the symmetrical burners having the ability to apply uniform thermal energy input into the zones of the LHF system as is readily achieved by the linear design of the LHF system .

At least in one embodiment upon reduction of the raw material in the reduction zone and further melting fusion in the zone a resulting processed material is provided in the container as it moves into the cooling zone . The resulting product of the direct reduction process using the LHF system whether it be a metallic iron nugget or other product resulting from a direct reduction process in many instances needs to be protected from re oxidation until it is cooled enough to be handled under ambient conditions. For example in many conventional direct reduction processes metalized pellets are formed which are easily oxidized. Although an iron nugget direct reduction process produces a metallic iron nugget that is quite resistant to oxidation generally it may still be necessary to provide a cooled processed material. Further metallic iron nuggets formed using direct reduction processes also must be chilled enough to solidify before they can be discharged at the discharging end of the linear furnace apparatus .

A RHF system has a cooling or chilling zone at the end of the cycle wherein a water jacket is used to cool the processed material on a bed thereof to an acceptable level for discharge. This is an additional constraint for the RHF system because the area required for cooling has a direct effect on the area of the RHF system that can be used for producing product. Generally product in a RHF system is discharged with minimal cooling and transferred to an external cooling system under a controlled atmosphere to prevent oxidation. In other words cooling completely on the hearth of a RHF system is generally not practical.

Quite in contrast the LHF system according to the present invention can be easily and economically extended to provide sufficient cooling so that the processed material can be discharged with minimal concern for re oxidation and significantly reduce product handling problems cost and maintain product integrity.

If the processed material of the linear furnace apparatus is conventional metalized pellets they will generally have a tendency to re oxidize if they come into contact with air while they are too hot. The extension of the cooling zone in a LHF system is relatively inexpensive. It can be lengthened to provide enough time for product to cool to the point where the resulting processed product is no longer pyrophoric. Lower product discharge temperatures also simplify downstream handling problems.

If the processed material is in the form of metallic iron nuggets extended cooling on the hearth may be provided to allow direct screening of the product to remove slag and carbonaceous hearth material for recycling or such cooling may be sufficient when the raw processed material is cooled to the point where water quenching may be applied.

The cooling section of the linear furnace apparatus may be configured in any manner such that it is suitable for performing the cooling function for the processed material passing therethrough e.g. the length may be extended to provide adequate cooling . For example the cooling zone as shown in may be provided with water or another suitable fluid to remove heat from the zone . For example preferably a water jacket is used to provide suitable cooling. Such water jackets are readily known to those skilled in the art and as such are not described in detail herein. Further for example the cooling zone may utilize other techniques for cooling such as discharging the hot charge e.g. processed material into a sealed container purged with an inert gas such as nitrogen or discharging the hot charge into an indirect rotary cooler and then returning the empty container to the charging end of the furnace.

Discharging processed material from a conventional RHF system is usually accomplished using for example a water cooled rotary screw. If the processed material is uniformly sized metalized pellets or briquettes and is completely solidified a rotary screw can perform flawlessly. However if the product contains agglomerates and if coalesced or semi liquid slag phases are present that will adhere to the screw or pile up on the hearth where it may cause discharge problems.

In contrast the discharge of processed material from the containers according to the present invention may be accomplished at least in one embodiment by tilting the containers at a high angle and allowing the processed material to slide off. By having an effective cooling zone e.g. a cooling zone not constrained in length due to the linear nature of the system sufficient time can be allowed for complete solidification of any fused product components before the processed material is discharged and discharge from the containers can be accomplished cleanly. Also as described herein discharge by gravity may also be combined with a mechanical assist.

The LHF system provides at least in one embodiment the advantage of physically separating the cold feed end of the system i.e. the charging end from the hot product end of the system i.e. the discharging end . The separation of these two ends of the LHF system is automatic and may also provide a simple layout for a plant having such equipment. For example the processed material from the LHF system may be fed from the discharge end directly to a furnace e.g. an electric furnace for final smelting. Such separation of the charging end and discharging end does not exist in a RHF system or even the PSH system described in the Background of the Invention section herein. In a RHF system for example the raw material and the processed material are added and discharged respectively from the furnace in the same region Likewise for example in a PSH furnace one discharging end is directly adjacent a charging end of another paired furnace.

The LHF system is operated under control of a control system not shown but which may be any suitable system for controlling the functionality of the furnace and includes a linear furnace apparatus extending along a longitudinal axis of the LHF system . The linear furnace apparatus is operable to move one or more containers from a charging end to a discharging end of the LHF system . A feed apparatus e.g. any suitable feed apparatus such as off the shelf feeders is configured for providing a raw material into the one or more containers such that the raw material may be transported through the linear furnace apparatus . The raw material is processed as the container is moved by a container moving apparatus of the linear furnace apparatus through one or more process zones to the discharging end along longitudinal axis .

At the discharging end a transfer discharge apparatus is used to discharge the processed material e.g. by tilting and allowing gravity to discharge the processed material from the one or more containers and further to transfer the empty container after discharge to a container return apparatus . Preferably the empty container is returned in an upright position to the charging end . Further preferably the empty container is provided immediately to the charging end directly below the linear furnace apparatus . In other words the container return apparatus is positioned directly below the linear furnace apparatus . A transfer apparatus is used to transfer the empty container to a location such that it can once again be fed with raw material and provided to the linear furnace apparatus .

As shown in the linear furnace apparatus extending along longitudinal axis includes one or more zones for use in processing the raw material in the one or more containers . The linear furnace apparatus includes a body support structure used at least in part to define the one or more zones e.g. metal structural walls and other supporting structure . As shown in the body support structure includes beams and metal panels configured to define a linear path extending through the one or more zones for processing of raw material in the one or more separate or separable containers . Depending upon the functionality of the particular zones and as shown in one or more types of insulating material e.g. lining one or more portions of the body support structure are employed to assist in maintaining high temperatures in one or more of the zones defined by the body support structure . For example the furnace zones such as reduction zone and fusion melting zone are lined with a high temperature fiber insulating material.

As best shown in transport of the one or more separate or separable containers along the linear path is provided by container moving apparatus provided in the form of a walking beam configuration. Although various walking beam configurations may provide for the transport of the one or more separate or separable containers along the linear path through the linear furnace apparatus the configuration shown particularly in includes a lift and shift walking beam configuration that utilizes a simple wedge and roller design. The use of walking transport beams assists in the movement of the one or more separate or separable containers through the linear furnace apparatus along the linear path.

The mechanical arrangement for raising and lowering the beams may be different depending upon the size of the linear furnace apparatus e.g. use of hydraulic driven lift pistons or a mechanical lever arm system . Further it may even be possible that the one or more containers may be moved through the linear furnace apparatus on rollers or supported by a continuous chain by providing water cooled jacketing for the roller supports.

The walking beam configuration shall be described in further detail with reference to . As shown therein a container when not supported by the walking transport beam is supported by side resting portions and insulated center beam e.g. such resting portions or beams may be formed of an insulating or refractory material . Generally the center beam is aligned along the longitudinal axis of the linear furnace apparatus . The center beam is supported by center beam support structure and the side resting portions are supported by support structure . Such support structure along with other support structure define sealed regions wherein mechanisms relating to the movement of walking transport beams are located. Such regions are mechanically sealed using support structure such as one or more of structures and such that gases from the interior of the linear furnace apparatus are prevented from escaping the linear furnace apparatus and likewise ambient air is prevented from entering the interior of the linear furnace apparatus .

As shown in and a series of wedges are supported in the defined openings by wedge support structure including motion beam . The motion beam is provided with motion by way of hydraulic apparatus and is allowed to roll on roller of wedge support structure . The wedges are not shown in however such wedges are shown mounted on motion beam of wedge support structure in .

The motion of motion beam is coupled through to the walking transport beams by means of walking beam coupler . The walking beam coupler includes the rollers which are configured to roll up and down wedges as the walking beam operates. The rollers are pivotably coupled at pivot point to carrier beam by support plates with one end of support plates being pivotably coupled at pivot point to rollers and the other end of the plate being fixed to carrier beam . A pivot coupling is used for coupling the carrier beam to trough which defines an opening for supporting the insulated material of walking transport beams . A hydraulic apparatus is coupled at the charging end in a manner so as to move the trough supporting the walking transport beams .

Using the motion of motion beam and walking transport beams as controlled by hydraulic apparatus and transport of containers is provided along the linear path of a linear furnace apparatus . For example as the wedges are moved toward the charging end by hydraulic apparatus the walking transport beams i.e. supported by the carrier beam carried by roller are raised as roller is rolled upon wedges imparting a lift to the transport beams and containers coupled to trough which supports the walking transport beams . A sequential movement by hydraulic apparatus moves the transport beams and containers toward the discharging end e.g. 6 to 12 inches of motion . Reversing such motions utilizing the hydraulic apparatus and provides for the lowering of the containers such that they rest upon side resting portions and center beam and moves the walking beams toward the charging end of the LHF system prior to repeat of the lifting and translation cycle which moves the one or more containers towards the discharging end .

The LHF system shown in is configured in this particular embodiment for use in a direct reduction process. Such direct reduction processes are well known in the art and shall not be described in further detail herein. However because the direct reduction process requires various processing techniques and zones for accomplishing such processing a short description with respect to each of the one or more zones shown in the exemplary embodiment of LHF system shall be described. The linear furnace apparatus includes a feed zone . The feed zone is configured to receive the one or more containers and provides for insertion of containers into the furnace through a sealed door or closure to minimize infiltration of ambient air into the furnace and also provides a temperature buffer zone so containers and charge are not immediately exposed to high temperatures of the preheat zone .

For example as shown in a roller section of the feed zone may assisting in receiving containers through an opening at the charging end . The opening or inlet into the furnace may be opened or closed using a closure apparatus . For example the closure apparatus may be a ceramic fiber curtain a refractory composite door a vertical slide gate or a panel with one or more types of actuators operable for opening and closing the inlet opening into the feed zone . One will recognize that any suitable mechanism for opening and closing the inlet opening to the feed zone to minimize escape of the furnace gases or entrance of ambient air may be utilized e.g. the transfer apparatus or structure may be used to physically lift the closure apparatus as the container is lifted in position to be inserted into the furnace .

Structure of the linear furnace apparatus defines an opening for allowing containers to pass from the feed zone into a preheat zone of the linear furnace apparatus . Optional baffle structures may be utilized to create further zones including reduction zone and fusion melting zone for processing of the raw material in the one or more containers . In addition such baffle structures allow for the transfer of gases from one zone to another zone and also into the preheat zone .

As similarly described with reference to conduit or discharge flue provides for exhaust of gases in this counter flow designed furnace. The discharge component block is representative of the components required to assist in such discharge of the hot exhaust gases. For example such components for at least one embodiment have been described with reference to and will not be described in any further detail with reference to .

As previously described herein the preheat zone provides for preheating or drying of wet raw material in a direct reduction process. For example in addition to drying the material such a preheating process dries off volatile components in the raw material . In this particular exemplary embodiment the preheat zone may be held at a temperature of about 1000 F. to about 2000 F. by gas burners positioned therein and controlled by controller not shown such as through use of roof mounted thermocouples . As one skilled in the art will readily recognize various sensors may be utilized with the linear furnace apparatus for use in controlling the atmosphere in the interior thereof. For example carbon dioxide carbon monoxide and oxygen sensors may be used to monitor and control the reducing potential of the furnace atmosphere. Further site ports may be included in one or more of the zones to provide for visual examination of the interior of portions of the furnace apparatus .

The containers are then moved along the linear path of the linear furnace apparatus from the preheat zone to a reduction zone where a chemical reduction process occurs to reduce the raw material e.g. an iron bearing material such as iron oxide . Generally for example the temperature within the reduction zone is maintained at a temperature in the range of about 1800 F. to about 2400 F. using controller not shown and one or more sensors such as thermocouples and further with use of gas burners .

The containers are then moved along the linear path of the linear furnace apparatus from the preheat zone to a reduction zone where a chemical reduction process occurs to reduce the raw material e.g. an iron bearing material such as iron oxide . Generally for example the temperature within the reduction zone is maintained at a temperature in the range of about 1800 F. to about 2400 F. using a controller not shown and one or more sensors such as thermocouples and further with use of gas burners .

As described elsewhere herein after formation of for example metallic iron nuggets in a direct reduction process such processed material is generally cooled. As such the one or more containers are provided from the fusion melting zone to a cooling zone through an opening defined by structure elements extending down towards the container moving apparatus . The cooling zone is preferably configured as a water jacket wherein water is provided to the cooling zone heated through the transfer of heat from the processed raw material to the water with the heated water being transported from the cooling zone . Such water jackets are readily known available and or described in a variety of configurations and need not be described in further detail herein.

The one or more containers are transferred from the cooling zone with use of a roller assist mechanism . An actuated closure mechanism is provided at the outlet of the cooling zone for preventing ambient air from entering into the zone and also preventing gases from escaping therefrom. The actuated closure mechanism may be similar or different to that of actuated closure and include any suitable apparatus for minimizing air or gas movement through the outlet .

The one or more containers after processing of the raw material provided therein are transported from the cooling zone to the discharge and transfer apparatus . The discharge and transfer apparatus as shown in one exemplary embodiment includes a transfer platform e.g. a platform comprising a plurality of ball bearings on an upper surface thereof as shown best in and further including wall structures as shown in for assisting in transfer of containers from the discharging end of the linear furnace apparatus to the container return apparatus for return of empty containers to the charging end of the LHF system .

Prior to such transfer to the container return apparatus the processed material is discharged using gravity. For example the container including the processed material e.g. metallic iron nuggets is raised to a particular pre determined angle by hydraulic apparatus . The transfer platform is pivotable at pivot point for allowing rotation of the transfer platform to angle . Any processed material may then be provided by gravity into a collection container for use in for example the transfer to one or more further apparatus. One skilled in the art will recognize that various mechanical assist devices may also be used to clean the processed material from the container if necessary.

After return of the empty container to horizontal from angle a hydraulic apparatus is used to lower the transfer platform to allow transfer of the empty container to the return apparatus . The empty container is then transferred to a carrier cart device by rotating the transfer platform to a particular angle about pivot point . The empty container is then transferred to the carrier cart device using gravity with proper alignment by guide and centering blocks or rollers . Further although the container may be moved to the carrier cart device by gravity other mechanical assist devices e.g. imparted cable motion belt or any other movement mechanism may be used in combination to provide the container to the carrier cart device of the container return apparatus . One will recognize that although a carrier cart is used in this particular embodiment that the container may be transported to charging end without a cart in one or more other embodiments of the present invention.

The container return apparatus includes a return apparatus structure supported upon pad in addition to wall structures for retaining and directing the container during its return to the charging end of the LHF system . The container return apparatus further includes the carrier cart device and cable apparatus including rollers and cable driven by a motor apparatus used to impart motion to cable which is attached in some manner to carrier cart device and therefore is used to impart motion to the empty container . Using the container return apparatus the container is moved towards the charging end of the LHF system . The cable driven apparatus may be used because of the relatively lightweight nature of the horizontal and non self mobile nature of the containers . However one skilled in the art will recognize that a belt mechanism or any other transfer apparatus may be used to move the containers whether in a cart or alone to the charging end e.g. a transport apparatus that can be located and operable below the linear furnace apparatus .

The carrier cart device may be any suitable apparatus for receiving an empty container and providing adequate support thereto during transport. For example the cart device may include one or more of the following features a planar bottom portion coupled to the cable one or more sidewalls e.g. extending from the bottom portion for retaining the empty container on the cart device as it is transported apparatus to assist in receiving the container or moving the container to another apparatus e.g. rollers ball bearings hydraulics etc. . One will recognize that the cart device may be configured in any number of different manners shapes and sizes and that the present invention is not limited to any particular configuration.

Another embodiment of a carrier cart that may be used according to the present invention is shown in . show various views of the carrier cart and associated features of a container return apparatus that may be used in one or more embodiments of the present invention.

The set of transfer wheels include a plurality of pairs of transfer wheels each pair of transfer wheels is caffied by a floating shaft that is free to move up and down i.e. vertically within slots on opposing edges of cart frame best shown in . For example in one embodiment the carrier cart includes four pairs of transfer wheels with each pair carried by a floating shaft that are free to move up and down in slots e.g. about an inch .

In this carrier cart embodiment of the present invention as the cart approaches the charging end where the discharge plate is located the transfer wheels ride up e.g. preferably simultaneously the ramps to propel the container forward and off the carrier cart and onto the transfer apparatus to be moved to the inlet to the furnace apparatus . The arrows in indicate the relative velocity of the container opposed to that of the carrier cart at discharge. In other words the shafts are raised in the slots as contact occurs between the transfer wheels and the ramps . This contact imparts a rolling effect on the transfer wheels moving the container in the direction of the arrows.

Generally with further reference to the configuration shown in at the charging end of the LHF system transfer apparatus is used to transfer the empty container from the container return apparatus to the inlet opening of the feed zone for insertion therein. As shown in the transfer apparatus includes a hydraulic apparatus for raising and lowering a transfer platform e.g. a transfer platform having a plurality of ball bearings on a surface thereof to mechanically assist in the transfer of the containers . The hydraulic apparatus is operable for lowering the transfer platform to a level for receiving an empty container from the container return apparatus and to move the empty container to a higher level as necessary for insertion of the container into the feed zone . In one embodiment a pushing apparatus may be used to assist in transfer of the container from the transfer platform and into feed zone with the assistance of roller apparatus .

As shown in a plurality of roller conveyers A and B are provided for the insertion of charged containers e.g. preloaded containers on conveyors A into the line of containers being process and removal of hot containers e.g. empty containers on conveyors B from the line of containers being processed. In this particular embodiment this arrangement is provided for semi batch type operation of for example a prototype furnace. It will be recognized by one skilled in the art that such operations e.g. charging the hot return containers and removal and replacement of damaged hot containers may be carried out in line in a full scale commercial operation. Further it will be recognized that scaling the present LHF system is much easier than other designs due to its linear nature.

One will recognize that the furnace zones are generally created in a symmetrical manner in the exemplary embodiment such that one or more sections of such zones may be added depending upon the processing necessary for the raw material. Further as this is a linear system the linear path may be extended such that a longer preheat feed cooling or additional furnace zones can be easily added by insertion of additional modular units configured for the functionality required.

In one embodiment a container that needs to be recycled may be removed from the transfer platform at the discharging end prior to its return to the charging end using container return apparatus . In addition various other transfer concepts to remove a container and or insert a different container in its place may be provided as modifications to the LHF system at one or more various locations of the system e.g. at the charging end at the discharging end or even at a location therebetween .

All patents patent documents and references cited herein are incorporated in their entirety as if each were incorporated separately. This invention has been described with reference to illustrative embodiments and is not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. As described previously one skilled in the art will recognize that other various illustrative applications may use the techniques as described herein to take advantage of the beneficial characteristics of the particles generated hereby. Various modifications of the illustrative embodiments as well as additional embodiments to the invention will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to this description.

