---

title: Management of media files
abstract: Apparatus, systems, and methods provide a mechanism to enhance the management of mobile devices for users of the mobile devices. Various embodiments include apparatus and methods to manage media content for a mobile device with respect identification, in a management system, of the media content of the mobile device. Additional apparatus, systems, and methods are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122709&OS=09122709&RS=09122709
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09122709
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100625
---
Individuals in modern society have access to information and media far beyond what they create individually. Most of this media comes from information sources that are not under the individual s direct control. These information sources typically add their own information which remains part of the media itself. Improvements to the management of this media enhance one s ability to interact with others to respond to changing needs and to avail oneself of enjoyment from processing various media based information.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration details and embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the inventive subject matter. The various embodiments disclosed herein are not necessarily mutually exclusive as some embodiments can be combined with one or more other embodiments to form new embodiments. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

In various embodiments systems apparatus and methods provide a mechanism to enhance the management of mobile devices for users of the mobile devices. Various embodiments include apparatus and methods to manage media content for a mobile device with respect identification of the media content in the mobile device under control of a management system. The mobile device may be a mobile wireless communications device for which media content such as songs operable for play on the mobile wireless communications device can be managed.

Systems and methods for managing media content may be configured such that the management may be conducted with limited user interaction and in various embodiments the system may perform essentially autonomously. Systems that manage media content may include various apparatus such as computer systems or other systems having hardware software and or hardware and software to manage media content. In various embodiments a personal computer PC can be used to manage media content and associated media files. A personal computer as is generally known herein refers to computing devices having an operating system OS such that use of the personal computer may be conducted by individuals having little or no knowledge of the basics of the underlying hardware and software that operate the PC and whose operation may be conducted without individuals typically authoring computer programs to operate the computer. Portable computers may include portable personal computers. An example of a portable PC is a laptop computer or notebook computer that typically has a display screen keyboard underlying hardware and software and a display pointing device that are all integrated in a housing that can easily be carried by an individual. Some personal digital assistants PDAs may be viewed as a type of portable computer. In various embodiments a PC may include instrumentality for managing media content and instrumentality to operate as a wireless server. A wireless server is a server configuration that can communicate with an entity over a channel established by the entities in a wireless network. The wireless server may operate with connections to such wireless networks or a wired network operatively coupling the wireless server to the wireless network. Other devices such as mobile wireless communications devices can be implemented to manage media content.

Various instrumentalities can be realized in hardware implementations software implementations and combinations of hardware and software implementations. Some portions of the instrumentalities may be described in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a machine memory. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. The instrumentality may operate to process compute calculate determine display and or conduct other activities correlated to processes of a machine such as a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The instrumentality may provide personalized capabilities provide a pathway to other content or combinations thereof. The instrumentality may use distributed applications different numbers and types of software based components that couple two or more applications to enable data transfer between the applications hardware to provide services from a number of different sources and may be realized on a variety of platforms such as servers and content management systems. The instrumentality may include or provide access to subroutine code code libraries application program interfaces such as interpreters utilizing Java EE Simple DirectMedia Layer SDL and DirectX combinations thereof or other such electronic based functionalities.

In various embodiments management system can be realized as a PC that manages media content in relationship to one or more mobile devices . Each mobile device can play media files and can interact with the PC with respect to the management of media content on the respective mobile device . In various embodiments the mobile devices include instrumentalities similar to those of the PC to manage the media content on the mobile device and to engage with a PC in interactive management of media content on the mobile device and or on other mobile devices in which the media content may be shared. Other apparatus configured with hardware software and or hardware and software to function in a similar manner as the PC to manage media content may be used in conjunction with the mobile devices .

In various embodiments mobile device can be realized as a mobile media device such as a portable music player a portable video player a portable e book reader or other type of media player. Mobile device can be a mobile wireless communications device. The mobile wireless communications devices may include but are not limited to mobile telephones portable computers PDAs and other devices that may be conveniently carried by a user and provide wireless communication. Mobile telephones include wireless communications devices that have generally been referred to as cell phones. Mobile telephones may include a wide range of communication devices from portable phones with limited functionality beyond voice communication to portable phones capable of providing functionality of a personal computer which portable phones may be referred to as smart phones.

In an embodiment a system organizes information associated with media content from multiple media sources into a single unified library file. The information may be organized as indexed information. Managing media content is not limited to a single library file. In various embodiments more than one library file may be utilized. Access to a library file can be provided to a number of mobile devices. The access may be provided as full access or limited access. For example access to a library file by a mobile device may be limited to a mobile device based on whether the mobile device has one or more media players to operate on the media content. Other criteria may be used to limit access to a mobile device. In various embodiments the library file is maintained on the system and is accessed from the mobile device remotely. In various embodiments a library file or a modified version of a library file can be transferred to the mobile device and the mobile device can access the library file locally. The library file can be used by the mobile device to transfer media content from one or more media sources to the mobile device. The mobile device may have wireless capabilities. The mobile device may be a mobile wireless communications device.

Management system and mobile device can interact with each other over any of a number of communication vehicles. For instance management system and mobile device can be directly connected to each other via a wired like communication mechanism such as for example but not limited to a USB universal serial bus cable. Management system and mobile device can be coupled to each other via a local wireless communication mechanism such as but not limited to infrared communication Wi Fi communication Bluetooth communication or other wireless based communication vehicle. Management system and mobile device can be coupled to each other via a wired network such as but not limited to the Internet. Management system and mobile device can be coupled to each other via a wireless network where one or both of management system and mobile device couple to wireless network via a land line route. With mobile device being a mobile wireless communications device such as but not limit to a smart phone mobile wireless communications device can interact with management system via its wireless subscriber network. Management system and mobile device may each include a number of instrumentalities to select the communication vehicle for the interaction between management system and mobile device .

The discovery process can be initiated with a query transmitted from the management system to the mobile device. The query can be a request for data where the data is the identification of all the media content by its complete identification maintained in the mobile device. The complete identification can include a filename an extension for the filename and other information. The complete identification may be limited to a filename and an extension for the filename. The mobile device may autonomously respond to the query without user input in response to the query. User input can be generated prior to the request where the user input sets parameters for the autonomous operation of the mobile device. Alternatively upon receipt of the request an application in mobile device may be started that uses user input in response to the request to complete the request. The discovery process may be initiated with a query transmitted from the mobile device to the management system requesting that the management system initiate one or more tasks to manage the media content on the mobile device.

At each discovered media content can be mapped to a library associated with the respective discovered media content. The mapping can be directed to an appropriately determined media library on the mobile device. A corresponding library can reside in a storage medium for the management system which can provide the basis for determining to which media library on the mobile device each discovered media content should be mapped. The storage medium can be a database or a memory system integrated within the management system. The storage medium of the management system can be a database or a memory system on a network accessible by the management system. A database includes an organized group of data to which operations and queries can be applied.

At a path can be assigned to each mapped media content under a sync folder for the mobile device. A sync folder for the mobile device can reside on the mobile device with a corresponding sync folder in the management system. A folder can be viewed as a virtual container within a digital file system that is assigned a storage region in the digital file system and organized for access. A folder contained inside another folder can be also be referred as to as a subfolder. A path can be viewed as a general form which can include a filename that specifies a unique location in the digital file system for the file associated with the filename. A path typically identifies a file system location by following a hierarchy expressed in a string of entries generally separated by a delimiting character. A sync folder of management system is a folder whose contents are designated to undergo or have undergone a sync process between the management system and another apparatus such as a mobile device whose media content is managed by the management system. The sync folder can include an identification of media files to be transferred to the mobile device. The sync folder can also include an identification of media files that have been transferred to and are currently on the mobile device. Information regarding media files to be transferred to the mobile device can be separate from information regarding media files previously transferred and currently residing on the mobile device. The identification of a media file can be in the form of a path that specifies how to locate the storage of the media file that can be collected and transferred to the mobile device.

Management of the media content of the mobile device can include generating and storing in the management system an updated list that contains an identification of each discovered media content that is mapped and assigned a path. This updated list can be transmitted to the mobile device. The updated list may be transmitted as a text file. Alternatively the updated list can be generated in the mobile device under the control and processing by the management system. The updated list identifies all the media content on the mobile device that is supported by media players in the mobile device correlated to libraries in the management system. When a file of media content is deleted from the mobile device the identity of this file can be removed from the updated list. Within the user interface of the management system the updated list can be managed and displayed on a display for the management system as a playlist. Since the updated list is a compilation of all media content of a media type on the mobile device the updated list may not be a playlist but may be referred to as a virtual playlist. This updated list allows the management system to efficiently control a sync process with the mobile device by refraining from copying to the mobile device media content that is identified on the updated list. The management system can manage different types of media content among a plurality of different mobile devices and different types of mobile devices. For example the management system can manage a mobile wireless communications device having one or more audio players operable to play songs on the mobile wireless communications device.

Various mobile wireless communications devices can include one or more audio players operable to play songs. This music may be loaded onto the mobile wireless communications device by a management system of the mobile wireless communications device. However the mobile wireless communications device can also acquire music from sources other than from a sync process with the management system for the mobile wireless communications device. For example music can be copied onto the mobile wireless communications device using other mechanisms such as downloading music from commercial web sites for ITunes audio players Windows Media Player WMP RealPlayer and other players. The music may be copied from sources other than the management system via USB connections file transfer over a wireless communication network an e mail transfer or from a Roxio application. The management system can also be a source of this same music from these sources or other various sources.

In an embodiment the management system includes instrumentality to sync music to the mobile wireless communications device without creating duplicates of the songs on the mobile wireless communications device. The sync process can be realized in the form of the transfer of executable files operable by audio players on the mobile wireless communications device. The transfer from the management system to the mobile wireless communications device can be made via USB connections file transfer over a wireless communication network an e mail transfer or other transfer mechanism. The wireless communication network may be a wide area network WAN or a local area network such as a Bluetooth connection a Wi Fi network an infrared connection or other wireless mechanism. The process on the management system can be conducted using a sync folder for the mobile wireless communications device that efficiently manages the syncing of songs with the mobile wireless communications device without creating duplicates of the songs. The electronic representation of a song that can be operated upon by an audio player may be referred to as a song.

The discovery process can include discovering all songs on the mobile wireless communications device such that the songs are not identified in the management system as having been synced to the mobile wireless communications device or scheduled to be synced to the mobile wireless communications device. During discovery the file extension of each song on the mobile wireless communications device can be compared with file extensions operable with one or more audio players on the mobile wireless communications device. Different mobile wireless communications devices may support different song extensions. The discovery process can optionally be limited to those songs on the mobile wireless communications device whose corresponding audio players are identified in the management system as being supported by the mobile wireless communications device. Songs identified as not being supported or not being identified as being supported may be ignored or may be listed in a file as songs on the mobile wireless communications device that are not supported. Such scenarios can arise with respect to a mobile wireless communications device that is subjected to management under multiple management systems. The initiation of the discovery process by the management system or by the mobile wireless communications device can be conducted in a manner similar to or identical to the initiation discussed with respect to a mobile device associated with .

At each discovered song can be mapped to a library associated with the respective discovered song. The mapping can be directed to an appropriately determined media library on the mobile wireless communications device. A corresponding library can reside with the management system which can provide the basis for determining to which music library on the mobile wireless communications device each discovered song should be mapped. The library for the management system can reside in a storage medium of the management system. The storage medium can be a database or a memory system integrated within the management system. The storage medium of the management system can be a database or a memory system on a network accessible by the management system.

For each discovered song mapping the discovered songs can include comparing the filename of the discovered song with entries in its associated music library where the associated music library can be identified by the file extensions of the songs. If matched to an entry in the associated music library the file size of the discovered song can be compared with the file size of the corresponding entry. In addition or alternatively if matched to an entry in the associated music library a number of bytes of the discovered song can be compared with bytes from a corresponding stored song correlated to the matched entry. The number of bytes may be less than all the bytes of the discovered song. The comparison may include comparing all or almost all of the bytes of the discovered song with the corresponding stored song. Due to the possibility of relatively large files the byte comparison may be conducted relative to a threshold such that the number of bytes compared is less than or equal to the threshold.

At a path can be assigned to each mapped song under a sync folder for the mobile wireless communications device. A sync folder for the mobile wireless communications device can reside on the mobile wireless communications device with a corresponding sync folder in the management system. After assigning paths to each mapped song the files of the mapped songs can be moved into a location correlated to its associated music library. The location can be an appropriate machine readable storage medium on the mobile wireless communications device. A copy of the mapped song can also be moved to a location for the use of the management system. The location for the management system can be in a database or memory system that is accessible by the management system where the database or memory system may be integrated in the management system or operably coupled to the management system over a network.

Management of the songs residing on the mobile wireless communications device can include generating and storing in the management system an updated list that contains an identification of each discovered song that is mapped and assigned a path. This updated list can be transmitted to the mobile wireless communications device. The updated list may be transmitted as a text file. Alternatively the updated list can be generated in the mobile wireless communications device under the control and processing by the management system. The updated list identifies all the songs on the mobile wireless communications device that are supported by media players in the mobile wireless communications device correlated to libraries in the management system. When a file of a song is deleted from the mobile wireless communications device the identity of this file can be removed from the updated list. Within the user interface of the management system the updated list can be managed and displayed on a display for the management system as a playlist. Since the updated list is a compilation of all songs on the mobile wireless communications device the updated list may not be a playlist but may be referred to as a virtual playlist. This updated list allows the management system to efficiently control a sync process with the mobile wireless communications device by refraining from copying to the mobile wireless communications device songs that are identified on the updated list. The various features discussed with respect to music can be applied to other media types.

Media sources may include media libraries for media players such as but not limited to libraries for ITunes audio players Windows Media Player WMP RealPlayer and other players. Each library may include collections of various media content. A collection is a subset of the files in a library. The collections may include references to the files. Each collection may refer to anywhere from zero files to all of the files in the library. An example of a collection of a music library is a playlist. In various embodiments sources of media content may be files within one or more folders on a single computer system or on multiple computer systems.

Processing modules include software and or hardware that can transfer media content from media sources to devices that use the associated media. Processing modules include instrumentality to operate as a connector which means that the processing modules interface with media sources to collect information associated with a media file configured to operate with a specific media player. Processing modules may be arranged with a set of connectors one for each type of media player incorporated in system or used by mobile devices whose media content is managed by system . Processing modules may include connectors to interact with mobile wireless communications devices where the mobile wireless communications devices can also be a source of media content. Processing modules may use but are not limited to a Windows COM interface or a XML file when connecting to various media sources. In addition processing modules may create a representation for example a library or libraries of information regarding the media content of the media content available from multiple media sources. In various embodiments media content may include information with respect to another media file that is played by a media player. For instance a jpeg Joint Photographic Experts Group file may be a file of album art for songs on an album where the media files of the songs are played on a media player.

In various embodiments output from processing modules is a representation created by processing modules . The representation may also be maintained by processing modules . Output may include device specific data for a mobile wireless communications device a media player or other destination device. Output may comprise metadata such as metadata based on user preferences or device settings. Generally metadata is information about data. Various media content may be metadata with respect to other media content. For example a file having a jpg file format may provide information regarding an audio file having a mp3 file format such that the jpg file is metadata for the mp3 file.

In an example embodiment the representation may be any mechanism for identifying the content of the media source files. In some embodiments a library file created by processing modules contains metadata for the media content available in the one or more media sources . . . N but omits the actual media content. Library file may be organized using a standard format that represents the information contained in the media sources. In various embodiments the standard format is a compressed format and or a format that is substantially smaller than the media library itself. For example a media library with 30 GB of audio files may be presented by processing modules in a file that may be 200 KB.

In operation system for managing media content shown in creates a representation of the media content available in one or more media sources . . . N and provides a means for accessing the media content by any destination device with a media player including a mobile wireless communications device. The destination device may browse the representation and may select individual media content items to copy or transfer from the media source to the destination device. After selection all or a portion of the media content item maybe transferred to the destination device and may be played on a media player on the destination device. In various embodiments system brings content from multiple media sources into a single unified library and pushes out device specific metadata from the single library to the specific destination device.

Media sync engines . . . M can create representations such as a library file or files identifying media content available from multiple media sources and provide data from the library to mobile wireless communications devices . . . N. In an embodiment a media sync engine is an example of a processing module shown in . In various embodiments a media sync engine provides a method to synchronize a media library such as an ITunes digital music library a Windows Media Player digital music library or other commercial based library with a smart phone. The files may be transferred using a wireless connection such as a wireless wide area network a wireless local area network such as a Wi Fi network a personal wireless connection such as a wireless USB connection. The files may be transferred using a wired connection such as a high speed USB connection.

Mobile wireless communications devices may include but are not limited to mobile telephones portable computers personal digital assistants PDAs media players and other devices that may be conveniently carried by a user and provide wireless communication. Mobile telephones include wireless communications devices that have generally been referred to as cell phones. Mobile telephones may include a wide range of communication devices from portable phones with limited functionality beyond voice communication to portable phones capable of providing the functionality of a personal computer. Multiple devices of different types capabilities may transfer media content using one or more media sync engines.

System can provide destination device with media files from data source . Data source can include a library which may be arranged as a multimedia library a music library a video library an e book library a documents library or combinations thereof. Though data source is shown as a single entity it can be configured as multiple data sources. The multiple data sources of data source can operate under different protocols using different data formats. Data source can be configured similar to or identical to sources . . . N of and or media sources . . . R of . Data source can be configured as a data source within system such as a memory system or a database. Data source can be configured external to but accessible by system .

API selector source provider sync controller destination provider and command generator can operate to perform multiple tasks including but not limited to functioning as a sync module that includes instrumentality to conduct synchronization operations with one or more destination devices . Sync operations can include adding media files to and removing media files from one or more destination devices . System can interact with destination device to determine its identity to acquire information on the availability of allocated media storage on the mobile device and to acquire information on all media files residing on the mobile device.

Destination device includes settings memory and sync metadata which components can provide and or store information corresponding to a sync operation with system . Sync metadata can include metadata associated with media content stored and operated on by a media player on destination device . Settings can include such information as a personal identification number PIN . Other information stored in settings can include but is not limited to identification of the OS of destination device a user chosen name for destination device and an identification of the version of media sync that destination device is using with respect to system .

System includes user interface configured as a mechanism for a user of system to interact with system including providing input for a sync operation with destination device . A user of system can receive information regarding the settings of destination device via user interface along with information regarding media content accessible to the user via processes of system or via destination device . However sync controller can manage operation of a sync session such that user related operations are conducted in a background process separate from the user interface. Background operations can be conducted without user interaction but may use user related information that is stored in system or stored in a database accessible by system .

Selector can include a set of connectors one or more for each type of media player incorporated in system or in destination devices . Selector using appropriate connectors can identify specific instances of a particular type of library in data source . Selector can use its connectors to perform a discovery function that finds individual libraries. A connector for a particular library is capable of communicating with the particular library or a file in the library using a corresponding application programming interface protocols file formats etc. When an individual library is discovered the connector can retrieve media collections from that instance of the individual library. The connectors of selector may include an iTunes connector a WMP connector a RealPlayer connector an autofill connector a connector for a specific source of e books and various other connectors correlated to instrumentality for operating on the respective media files to provide a presentation to the user of system . An individual connector may be configured as a combination of a read only connector and a writeable connector. A writeable connector may perform such activities as adding a user assigned rating for a song creating a playlist editing a playlist deleting a song etc. An autofill connector for example can be realized as a combination of connectors to perform discovery functions across different libraries during an autofill operation of system for a specific destination device .

Selector provides a group mechanism in that it functions to maintain account of selections made from data source . For example if music item is chosen selector maintains the ID of the chosen music item including such information as the number of music tracks in the chosen music item. Selector can be arranged to group various pieces of information data regarding chosen media files.

Source provider determines the type of media data included in a sync session where it functions as a finder providing a discovery mechanism for connectors. Functioning as a finder source provider can identify what connectors of selector are available for processing. The available connectors may register with source provider . If a separate connector is used for each type of library the particular connectors that are discovered by source provider can determine what type of libraries are in system . Source provider can be arranged as an aggregation of components one or many instances for providing discovery mechanisms.

Destination provider is similar to source provider except that destination provider operates with respect to the types of media data on a particular destination device with which system enters into a sync session. Destination provider can find connectors to interact with one or more destination devices where destination devices can also be sources of media content. Content from destination device can be read into a database of system with the content represented from destination provider correlated to destination device .

Destination provider can operate using a set of modules including compatibility destination content path assigner size calculator space calculator and transaction file reader . Compatibility can operate to provide information and or conduct actions to reconcile compatibility such as with different versions of hardware and or software on designation device . Path assigner can operate as a component that calculates unique destination path of a to be copied media taking name collisions associated with different media files and operating system OS path limits into consideration. Size calculator can operate as a component that calculates a future size of a media on a specified destination device where it will be copied. Size calculator can take into account compression e.g. scaling of images disk differences as in physical cluster size of disk and aids in projecting these estimates on a progress bar displayer by UI . Space calculator can operate as to provide input as to an amount of space available for syncing. Transaction file reader can operate to provide a transaction file of what was transacted as part of sync to a specific destination device in a previous sync operation. Transaction file reader can be used to determine a delta to be copied as part of next sync operation to the specific destination device . Destination content can operate to provide an identification of what media content already resides on destination device as part of the last sync with the specified destination device .

Sync controller provides a path assignment function. It essentially maps the media item from data source to destination device . Once the mapping is complete the appropriate commands and command format is formed by command generator to conduct the sync session with destination device .

Command generator can be configured to operate in conjunction with a command repository and a logger . Command repository can operate as a repository of commands holding commands to be executed at various stages during a sync operation. Command repository can be configured as an aggregation of components one or many instances to hold various commands and or sets of commands. For example command repository can include a set of commands for a cleanup stage that implements the deletion of non essential and temporary files. In another example command repository can include a set of commands for a copy stage that implements the copying of data and metadata e.g. album artwork . Logger can operate as a component that logs sync activities and usage statistics for example for diagnostics purposes and beta statistics.

API can include instrumentality for managing functions from selection to command generation for a sync session such that it can provide overall management of a sync session between system and destination device . API can provide a unified interface to multiple sources libraries of data source . Under direction of API media collected for a sync session can be collected in a sync set.

The components of system shown in as independent entities can be implemented in an integrated format. The various components of system can be realized as software hardware and combinations of software and hardware. The software is implemented as instructions stored in a machine readable storage medium that can be executed by one or more processors of system . Other systems having architectures that differ from system can be implemented in an arrangement with a mobile device as in to conduct management of media files in the mobile device in a manner similar or identical to the manner of operation associated with .

Embodiments as illustrated in and similar embodiments may be implemented as a desktop application to transfer media content from multiple sources to a mobile device such as a mobile wireless communications device or other destination device. The desktop application for managing media content may be launched on a PC. The desktop application may be automatically launched on startup of the PC. The desktop application may be launched on detection of a device connection to the PC. In various embodiments a user may launch the desktop application. Alternatively embodiments as illustrated in and similar embodiments may be implemented to allow a mobile device such as a mobile wireless communications device or other destination device to update content already present on the mobile device with media content from multiple sources through a management system.

In various embodiments transfer sync of multimedia files audio files video files and or combinations thereof between a management system and associated media managers of the management system and a mobile device such as a mobile wireless communications device may be accomplished using a number of mechanisms. The transfer sync between the mobile device and the management system may be accomplished through a wired USB connection or a wireless USB connection. The transfer sync between the mobile device and the management system may be accomplished through a Wi FI communication session. The transfer sync between the mobile device and the management system may be accomplished over wide area network WAN such as a wireless network. Other communication vehicles may be used.

In an embodiment system can be arranged as a management system such that controller and memory system can be arranged to manage media content and associated information on system and on mobile devices managed by management system . Electronic apparatus can include additional components to operate as a management system and or to operate as one or more types of media players. Communications unit can include one or more communications interfaces to operate over a wired network and or a wireless network. Example interfaces can include a Wi Fi interface a USB interface an Ethernet interface an infrared interface a Bluetooth interface an interface to operate with a wireless service provider and other appropriate interfaces. In an embodiment system can be realized as a PC. The PC may include instrumentality distributed throughout the PC to operate as a wireless server. System arranged as a PC can operate according to any of the various embodiments discussed herein to manage media content and associated information within the PC and in conjunction with one or more mobile devices such as mobile wireless communications devices.

Various embodiments or combination of embodiments for apparatus and methods for a management system such as a PC to manage media content on a mobile device as described herein can be realized in hardware implementations software implementations and combinations of hardware and software implementations. These implementations may include a machine readable medium having machine executable instructions such as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for operating the system in a relationship with one or more mobile devices such that media content and associated information is managed between the system and the mobile device. The communications of the system with a mobile wireless communications device can be conducted on a secured basis. The machine readable medium is not limited to any one type of medium. Machine readable storage media may include but are not limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media. Non limiting examples of machine readable storage media include but are limited to hard disks removable magnetic disks removable optical disks e.g. compact disks and digital video disks magnetic cassettes memory cards memory sticks Random Access Memories RAMs Read Only Memories ROMs and other storage media.

In various embodiments for system arranged as a management system memory system includes a machine readable storage medium that stores instructions which when performed by system cause system to perform operations comprising discovering on a mobile device all media content of a media type mapping each discovered media content to a library associated with the respective discovered media content and assigning a path to each mapped media content under a sync folder of the management system. Each discovered media content is operable with one or more media players on the mobile device such that the media players are correlated to a media library. Each media library may be part of a library residing on the mobile device. For each media library there can be a corresponding media library that may be part of a library residing in a storage medium such as memory system for management system . The discovery is under the control of system for the mobile device where the management system is separate from the mobile device.

The machine readable storage medium may include instructions which when performed by system cause system to perform operations including generating and storing an updated list that contains an identification of each discovered media content that is mapped and assigned a path and refraining from copying to the mobile device media content that is identified on the updated list. The instructions can generating the updated list in management system and transmitting the updated list to the corresponding mobile device such as a corresponding mobile wireless communications device. The instructions may include instructions to operate with a mobile wireless communications device having one or more media players operable on the mobile wireless communications device. The instructions may include discovering all songs as the media files operable with the one or more media players as audio players. Discovering all songs on the mobile wireless communications device can include discovering all songs on the mobile wireless communications device such that the songs are not identified in the management system as having been synced to the mobile wireless communications device or scheduled to be synced to the mobile wireless communications device. Instructions to discover all songs on the mobile wireless communications device can include instructions to compare song extensions with extensions operable with one or more audio players on the mobile wireless communications device. Instructions to map the discovered songs can include instructions to map each song to its associated music library where each associated music library can be correlated to a respective audio player on the mobile wireless communications device. The instructions can include instructions which when performed by management system cause management system to perform operations including after assigning paths to each mapped song moving a file of each mapped song into a location correlated to an associated music library to which the respective mapped song is matched generating and storing an updated list that contains an identification of each discovered song that is mapped and assigned and refraining from copying to the mobile wireless communications device a song that is identified on the updated list.

In an embodiment system can be arranged as a mobile device such that controller and memory system can be arranged to manage media content in conjunction with a management system that controls system arranged as a mobile device. The mobile device can be a mobile wireless communications device. Electronic apparatus can include components to operate as a mobile wireless communications device and to operate as one or more types of media players. Communications unit can include one or more communications interfaces to operate system as a mobile wireless communications device over a wired network and or a wireless network. Example interfaces can include a Wi Fi interface a USB interface a Bluetooth interface an interface to operate with a wireless service provider and other appropriate interfaces. System arranged as a mobile device such as a mobile wireless communications device can operate according to any of the various embodiments discussed herein to manage media content and associated information within the mobile device in conjunction with a management system having software and or hardware to manage the media content.

Various embodiments or combination of embodiments for apparatus and methods for a mobile device such as a mobile wireless communications device as described herein can be realized in hardware implementations software implementations and combinations of hardware and software implementations. These implementations may include a machine readable medium having machine executable instructions such as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for operating the mobile device to manage its media content and associated information within the mobile device in conjunction with a management system such as a PC. The communications between a mobile wireless communications device and the system can be conducted on a secured basis. The machine readable medium is not limited to any one type of medium. Machine readable storage media may include but are not limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media. Non limiting examples of machine readable storage media include but are limited to hard disks removable magnetic disks removable optical disks e.g. compact disks and digital video disks magnetic cassettes memory cards memory sticks Random Access Memories RAMs Read Only Memories ROMs and other storage media.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive and that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon studying the above description.

