---

title: Systems and methods for converting wideband signals in the optical domain
abstract: Systems and methods for converting wideband signals in the optical domain are provided. A device for obtaining a digital representation of a received signal may include a spatially dispersive element that may be configured to spatially disperse frequencies in an optical-domain representation of the received signal; a spatial light modulator that may be configured to mix the dispersed optical frequencies by imposing a mixing matrix on an optical intensity of the dispersed optical frequencies; an optical sensor that may be configured to obtain an electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies; and a signal recovery processor that may be configured to obtain a digital representation of the received signal based on the electrical representation and the mixing matrix. The signal recovery processor may be further configured to determine a modulation format of the digital representation and may demodulate the digital representation based on the modulation format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08026837&OS=08026837&RS=08026837
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08026837
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100422
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. FA88002 09 C 0001 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

An analog to digital converter ADC is a device that converts continuous analog signals to discrete digital numbers. Generally an ADC samples an input signal at a predetermined sampling rate calculated using the Nyquist Shannon Sampling Theorem. Under that theorem perfect reconstruction of a continuous time signal may be obtained if the sampling rate is greater than twice the highest frequency of the signal. Sampling at twice the highest frequency may however not be possible especially for wideband signals or the resolution number of bits obtained at this rate may not be sufficient. A wideband signal may be defined as a signal operating at a wide range of frequencies e.g. above 1 GHz. For these reasons previously known ADCs may be inadequate to handle wideband applications in for example electronic warfare radar cognitive radio signals intelligence telecommunications and signal sampling in space. Moreover previously known ADCs rely on high speed high power electronics that may be cumbersome power hungry and expensive.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for converting wideband signals using optical domain processing. Specifically a received signal e.g. a wideband signal may be modulated in the optical domain so as to convert the received signal into a digital signal using for example commercially available low cost low data rate low power analog to digital converters ADCs .

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a device for obtaining a digital representation of a received signal includes a spatially dispersive element that may be configured to spatially disperse optical frequencies in an optical domain representation of the received signal a spatial light modulator that may be configured to mix the dispersed optical frequencies by imposing a mixing matrix on an optical intensity of the dispersed optical frequencies an optical sensor that may be configured to obtain an electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies and a signal recovery processor that may be configured to obtain a digital representation of the received signal based on the electrical representation and the mixing matrix.

In some embodiments the signal recovery processor may be further configured to determine a modulation format of the digital representation and may demodulate the digital representation based on the modulation format.

In some embodiments the received signal includes an optical digital signal. In some embodiments the received signal includes an analog or digital signal. In some embodiments the received signal includes a radio frequency RF signal.

Some embodiments further include a chirped optical source that may be configured to generate a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal and an optical modulator that may be configured to impose the analog RF signal on the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal.

In some embodiments the chirped optical source includes a laser and or a dispersive optical element such as a chirped fiber Bragg grating or a segment of dispersion compensation fiber.

Some embodiments further include an analog signal receiver that may be configured to receive the analog radio frequency signal.

In some embodiments the optical modulator may be an intensity modulator. In other embodiments the device further includes a splitter and the optical modulator may be a phase modulator and the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal may be divided into a first portion and a second portion. The first portion may travel to the phase modulator and the second portion may travel to the splitter. The splitter may be configured to split the second portion of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal based on the mixing matrix and transmit the split second portion of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal to interfere with the mixed dispersed optical frequencies of the first portion of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal from the spatial light modulator.

In some embodiments the spatial light modulator may be a partially transmissive optic that contains a fixed array of different transmission coefficients.

In some embodiments the spatial light modulator may include channels and columns of pixels each pixel being independently adjustable.

In some embodiments the optical sensor may include an array of photodiodes. The photodiodes may include a low pass filter.

Some embodiments further include a display unit that may display the digital representation of the received signal.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a method for obtaining a digital representation of a received signal includes obtaining an optical domain representation of the received signal spatially dispersing optical frequencies in the optical domain representation mixing the dispersed optical frequencies by imposing a mixing matrix on an optical intensity of the dispersed optical frequencies obtaining an electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies and obtaining a digital representation of the signal based on the electrical representation and the mixing matrix.

Some embodiments further include determining a modulation format of the digital representation and may include demodulating the digital representation based on the modulation format.

In some embodiments receiving the signal includes receiving an optical digital and or radio frequency signal.

In some embodiments receiving the signal includes generating a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal and modulating the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal by imposing an analog signal on the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal.

In some embodiments generating a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal includes generating a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal with a laser.

In some embodiments generating a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal includes generating a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal by dispersing a femtosecond fs class laser pulse with a dispersive optical component. The femtosecond class laser pulse may be in the range of 1 fs to 1000 fs at full width half maximum FWHM and may be within 10 fs to 100 fs FWHM.

In some embodiments spatially dispersing frequencies includes spatially dispersing the frequencies with a diffraction grating.

In some embodiments mixing the dispersed optical frequencies includes mixing the dispersed optical frequencies with a spatial light modulator.

In some embodiments obtaining an electrical representation includes obtaining an electrical representation with an array of photodiodes.

In some embodiments obtaining a digital representation includes converting the electrical representation from an analog representation to a digital representation.

In some embodiments obtaining the digital representation includes recovering the signal based on the digital representation and the mixing matrix.

Embodiments of the present invention include systems and methods for obtaining a digital representation of a received signal e.g. a digital or analog radio frequency RF signal or an optical digital signal using optical domain processing. First different frequencies of an optical domain representation of the received signal may be spatially dispersed so as to produce a time wavelength to space mapping of the signal which prepares the optical frequencies for mixing. The dispersed optical frequencies of the optical domain representation then may be mixed in the optical domain by imposing a mixing matrix on an optical intensity of the dispersed optical frequencies for example by varying the transmitted intensities and or phases of different portions of the dispersed optical frequencies using a spatial light modulator SLM . A digital representation of the received signal may then be obtained from the mixed frequencies using optical sensors coupled to a suitable signal recovery processor e.g. as described in greater detail herein.

Previously known signal processing techniques rely solely on high speed high power electronics to obtain a digital representation of a signal. In accordance with the principles of the present invention a spatial light modulator is used to impose a mixing matrix on the optical intensities of dispersed optical frequencies of an optical domain representation of an analog or digital signal thereby enabling the received signal to be converted into a digital signal using for example commercially available low cost low data rate low power analog to digital converters ADCs . The device disclosed herein may sample the received signal at a sampling rate at least M times greater than the sampling rate of a previously known electronic ADC where M is the number of channels in the spatial light modulator. This functionality may be especially important for converting wideband signals e.g. signals operating at frequencies above 1 GHz because previously known ADCs may be inadequate to handle wideband applications in for example electronic warfare radar cognitive radio signals intelligence telecommunications and signal sampling in space.

As described in greater detail below the device further may be configured to determine the modulation format of the digital representation of the received signal after analog to digital conversion. Further still the device may demodulate the digital representation based on the determined modulation format.

As discussed in greater detail herein the received signal may be for example a radio frequency signal which may be an analog or digital signal or may be an optical digital signal. Embodiments of the invention useful for obtaining digital representations of radio frequency signals will first be described and embodiments of the invention useful for obtaining digital representations of optical digital signals will then be described.

Chirped optical source may be configured to generate a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal. A chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal is an optical pulse that has a relatively constant intensity as a function of time and has temporal wavelength variations. FIG. A is a plot illustrating the temporal variations in intensity of three exemplary chirped repetitively pulsed optical signals that may be generated by chirped optical source . The plurality of chirped repetitively pulsed optical signals has a substantially continuous overall intensity in time as represented by I. Temporal intensity profiles illustrate three chirped repetitively pulsed optical signals that begin at times t t t respectively. Once a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal begins its intensity increases over time until the intensity levels off at a peak e.g. at I. The chirped repetitively pulsed optical signals may have substantially the same energy as one another and may overlap slightly in the temporal domain. For example temporal intensity profile begins to decrease after time t when temporal intensity profile begins. Temporal intensity profiles and overlap slightly after time t after which temporal intensity profile decreases to zero and temporal intensity profile increases to I.

As shown in chirped optical source may include for example any suitable laser e.g. a mode locked laser fiber laser titanium doped sapphire Ti Sapphire solid state laser or dye laser. In some embodiments the laser may be configured so as to generate chirped repetitively pulsed optical signals without the need for an additional component. Alternatively chirped optical source may further include one or more optical components for dispersing and hence chirping a pulse generated by the laser. Such an optical component may include for example a grating such as a chirped fiber Bragg grating FBG a dispersion compensating fiber DCF or a standard optical fiber. The laser may be for example bandwidth limited so as to produce ultrafast pulses e.g. 1 picosecond Full Width at Half Maximum FWHM or less at a high bandwidth e.g. 10 nm FWHM or more and the dispersive optical component may be configured to temporally disperse the bandwidth of those pulses such that the pulses temporally overlap with one another resulting in a substantially uniform overall intensity Ias illustrated in . The laser may have for example a repetition rate of 100 MHz resulting in a period time difference between tand t and between tand t of 10 ns. In some embodiments a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal is generated by dispersing a femtosecond fs class laser pulse with a dispersive optical component. The femtosecond class laser pulse may be in the range of 1 fs to 1000 fs full width at half maximum FWHM and may be within 10 fs to 100 fs FWHM.

In one illustrative embodiment chirped optical source may be a theta laser such as disclosed in Shinwook Lee et al. IEEE Photonics Technology Letters Vol. 18 No. 7 799 801 Apr. 1 2006 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. The theta laser disclosed in Lee includes two optical circulators an intensity modulator an output coupler a bandpass filter a polarization controller a semiconductor optical amplifier an electric comb generator and chirped FBG. The theta laser may be used to generate a chirped optical pulse.

Signal generator may generate a radio frequency signal e.g. an analog radio frequency or digital radio frequency signal. The characteristics of the radio frequency signal may be unknown. Signal generator may be any device capable of generating a radio frequency signal and may be remote from device . For simplicity generating an analog signal will be described below. The analog signal may be sparse under a known transformation e.g. a Fourier or wavelet transform. In the frequency domain a sparse signal is defined to be a signal that consists of a relatively small number of narrowband transmissions spread across a relatively wide spectrum range. A sparse signal may be represented by a vector e.g. a vector having dimension N 1 having a relatively small number of nonzero elements.

After the analog signal is generated by signal generator the analog signal is received by any structure capable of receiving an analog signal e.g. an antenna not shown . In some embodiments described further below device includes the analog signal receiver which may be disposed within optical modulator . In other embodiments the analog signal receiver is disposed outside of device and operatively coupled to device such that the analog signal may be transmitted to optical modulator .

Optical modulator may be configured to impose the RF analog signal on the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal generated by chirped optical source . For example schematically illustrates an exemplary optical modulator that is an intensity modulator configured to impose an RF analog signal on the intensity of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal according to some embodiments of the invention. Optical modulator illustrated in includes input optical fiber electrodes voltage generator analog signal receiver and output optical fiber . A chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal from chirped optical source is introduced to optical modulator through input optical fiber . Junction divides the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal into two portions and respectively guides the portions into sections and . Electrodes are positioned on either side of sections . Voltage generator may be programmed to independently apply voltages to different pairs of electrodes so as to change the phase of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal traveling through the section adjacent to that pair. For example voltage generator may apply voltages proportional to the analog signal generated by signal generator and received by analog signal receiver . Analog signal receiver may be operatively coupled to voltage generator and may be any structure capable of receiving an analog signal e.g. an antenna.

In optical modulator illustrated in the two portions of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal in sections may recombine at junction where they interfere with one another. Because the relative phase of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal portions traveling through sections may be controlled via voltage generator the intensity of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal at junction may be modulated based on the analog signal. For example if the portion of chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal in section is phase delayed by an even multiple of relative to that in section then the two portions of chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal will constructively interfere with each other yielding maximum brightness. Or for example if the portion of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal in section is phase delayed by an odd multiple of relative to that in section then the two portions will completely interfere with each other yielding minimal brightness. The output of optical modulator is the analog signal imposed as an intensity modulation on the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal referred to as the modulated chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal. This output is coupled into a single output optical fiber . Configurations such as that illustrated in may be referred to as a Mach Zehnder modulator MZM . Other modulators such as absorptive modulators based on the Franz Keldysh effect or the quantum confined Stark effect or other interferometric modulators may also suitably be used.

Referring back to spatially dispersive element is configured to spatially disperse different optical frequencies in the modulated chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal from optical modulator . Spatially dispersive element produces a time wavelength to space mapping of the modulated chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal. The dispersive optical element e.g. a chirped fiber Bragg grating or a segment of dispersion compensation fiber that may be included in optical source may be engineered to complement spatially dispersive element so as to provide a linear time wavelength to space mapping. For example the dispersive optical component may create timing errors on the optical pulse that are identical from pulse to pulse. If timing errors are detected the spatially dispersive element may be calibrated to eliminate the timing errors using suitable techniques known in the art. Non limiting examples of spatially dispersive element include diffraction grating e.g. transmission grating or reflection grating a wavelength division demultiplexing WDM device and a prism.

Referring back to spatial light modulator may be configured to receive the dispersed optical frequencies from spatially dispersive element and to impose a mixing matrix on an optical intensity of the dispersed optical frequencies. Spatial light modulator may be a device that imposes some form of spatially varying modulation e.g. a phase or intensity modulation on different portions of a beam of light. illustrates the exemplary dispersed optical frequencies from imposed on a grid of M channels by N pixel columns. In this example there are eight channels and ten columns of pixels resulting in 80 pixels and the longer wavelength portions are dispersed at the higher pixel column numbers. Each channel M receives frequencies with varying wavelengths e.g. from shorter wavelengths to longer wavelengths. The number of channels M may be selected for wideband applications and may include 1000 channels or more. Each pixel column N receives frequencies with wavelengths that do not vary greatly e.g. pixel column receives only short wavelength frequencies. Each pixel column N has M pixels that may be independently controlled by a computer operated electronic driver which manipulates the pixel voltage allowing the pixel voltage to be easily programmed and or reprogrammed.

Spatial light modulator mixes the dispersed optical frequencies by imposing a mixing matrix on an optical intensity of the dispersed optical frequencies. Specifically spatial light modulator may impose the mixing matrix by reducing or preventing selected light transmission of the dispersed optical frequencies by applying voltages to the individual pixels. Spatial light modulator may be programmed to randomly prevent or reduce light transmission through certain pixels while never completely preventing light transmission of an entire pixel column N . Spatial light modulator may be programmed to prevent or reduce light transmission through the pixels by applying an appropriately chosen light transmission reduction coefficient between 0 and 1 to each of the selected pixels.

Referring back to spatial light modulator may mix signals up to the maximum response Effective Input Bandwidth EIB for optical modulator . Currently optical modulators may modulate signals with an EIB up to approximately 100 GHz. As the maximum response for optical modulators increases in the future the EIB of a signal that may be mixed by spatial light modulator would increase.

Spatial light modulator may be for example a fixed mask a partially transmissive optic or a programmable device such as a liquid crystal display LCD or a digital micro mirror device DMD . The partially transmissive optic e.g. transparency plastic and or glass may contain a fixed array of different transmission coefficients e.g. via printing the transmission coefficients on the optic. The SLM may be configured for example so as to have a size of M Channels N Pixel Columns. In one embodiment the pixels of the SLM vary the intensity of light transmitted therethrough. In one embodiment the pixels of the SLM vary the intensity of the light reflected therefrom.

Referring again to optical sensor may be configured to obtain an electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies. The mixed dispersed optical frequencies from spatial light modulator may be transmitted e.g. via a second spatially dispersive element such as a lens a grating or an Arrayed Waveguide Grating AWG not shown onto optical sensor . Such an operation may be considered to be equivalent to multiplying the mixing matrix by the analog signal vector resulting in a singular dot product. For example a mixing matrix of dimension M N may be multiplied by an analog signal of dimension N 1 resulting in a singular dot product of dimension M 1 that is received by optical sensor . Optical sensor then integrates the mixed dispersed optical frequencies in time to obtain an electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies. Optical sensor may be any device capable of converting light into current. Optical sensor may be an inherently low pass filter device. In some embodiments optical sensor includes at least one photodiode. In some embodiments optical sensor includes a linear photodiode array matched to spatial light modulator such that a focusing output grating and or lens are not necessary.

Referring back to signal recovery processor may be configured to obtain a digital representation of the analog signal based on the electrical representation obtained by optical sensor and further based on the mixing matrix. Signal recovery processor may include any suitable device capable of converting analog signals into digital signals e.g. an ADC. Additionally signal recovery processor may include any suitable device capable of signal recovery e.g. a processor and may include a memory device for storing the digital signals and or the recovered signal. Signal recovery processor receives an analog electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies from optical sensor and converts this analog electrical representation into a digital representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies at a suitable sample rate. Signal recovery processor then obtains a digital representation of the originally received signal based on the digital representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies and on the mixing matrix. For example if the mixing matrix is a square M N signal recovery processor may obtain the digital representation of the originally received signal by performing an operation that may be considered to be equivalent to multiplying the singular dot product from optical sensor by the inverse of the mixing matrix. For example a singular dot product of dimension M 1 e.g. the electrical signal produced by the optical sensor may be multiplied by the inverse of a mixing matrix of dimension M M resulting in a digital representation of the received signal having dimension M 1.

Alternatively if the mixing matrix is non square M N signal recovery processor instead may obtain the representation of the received signal through techniques known in the art of compressive sensing e.g. using suitable computer software. As will be familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art compressive sensing is a methodology for preprocessing sparse data in the analog domain e.g. an analog signal prior to digitization in such a way that fewer digital resources e.g. fewer ADCs are required to obtain an accurate representation of the sparse data. See for example Cand s et al. IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Vol. 25 No. 2 21 30 March 2008 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

In some embodiments the compressive sensing techniques employed in the present invention may use a new set of algorithms developed for sampling signals and images at rates much lower than the traditional Nyquist rate. See for example Loris 12 pg. 1 17 Aug. 20 2008 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. Loris discloses the use in compressive sensing of a Mathematica Wolfram Research Champaign Ill. package called L1 Packv2 that includes an algorithm called FindMinimizer that may be used to obtain a representation of the received signal. The L1 Packv2 package or any other suitable set of algorithms may be used to obtain a digital representation of the originally received signal based on the mixing matrix and the electronic representation obtained by optical sensor .

Signal recovery processor may further determine the modulation format of the digital representation of the received signal e.g. using suitable computer software. Non limiting examples of analog modulation formats include amplitude modulation double sideband modulation single sideband modulation vestigial sideband modulation quadrature amplitude modulation angle modulation frequency modulation pulse position modulation and phase modulation.

Signal recovery processor may demodulate the digital representation based on the determined modulation format e.g. using suitable computer software. Signal recovery processor may determine the modulation format and demodulate the determined modulation format after converting the electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies from optical sensor into a digital representation meaning device may digitize the entire modulation format and then demodulate the digitized signal with for example suitable high speed digital demodulation software.

Signal recovery processor illustrated in includes linear ADC array and processor . Linear ADC array includes M ADCs and in this example M equals eight. Each ADC is operatively coupled to a corresponding photodiode in linear photodiode array such that each ADC receives the corresponding electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies. Each ADC converts the received electrical representation from an analog representation to a digital representation. The digital representation is transmitted from linear ADC array to processor for signal recovery. Processor obtains a representation of the analog signal based on the digital representation and the mixing matrix. Processor may be any suitable processing unit capable of signal recovery determining a modulation format and or demodulating a digital signal based on a demodulation format e.g. a dedicated circuit a computer and may be configured to run a program for signal recovery determining a modulation format and or demodulating a digital signal based on a demodulation format in suitable software e.g. Matlab The MathWorks Inc. Natick Mass. or Mathematica Wolfram Research Champaign Ill. . Processor may obtain the representation of the received signal using known techniques in the art of signal recovery and digital demodulation.

Device may sample the received signal at a sampling rate at least M times greater than the sampling rate of an electronic ADC used in the device where M is the number of channels in the spatial light modulator. For example a device using signal recovery processor illustrated in would be able to sample a received signal at a rate at least eight times greater than the sampling rate of each ADC in ADC array . As a result wideband signals may be converted into digital signals at signal recovery processor using for example commercially available low cost low data rate e.g. less than 500 Megasamples second low power e.g. less than 0.1 picojoules per conversion step ADCs.

Device may include a display unit configured to display the representation of the received signal based on the digital representation and the mixing matrix. The display unit may be any device capable of displaying a signal representation.

Device may be used to obtain a representation of a received signal including wideband signals in applications including but not limited to electronic warfare radar cognitive radio signals intelligence telecommunications and signal sampling in space.

The chirped optical pulse travels via fiber from chirped FBG to MZM which imposes RF signal on the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal by modulating the intensity of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal in accordance with temporal and frequency characteristics of analog signal . Analog signal may be generated by a remote apparatus and received by MZM using any suitable means. Analog signal is a representation of analog signal in vector form having dimension N 1. In this example N equals ten. Analog signal is sparse as represented by eight white squares and two gray squares because the signal contains a small number of significant frequencies gray squares relative to the band limit N .

The modulated chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal travels from MZM through an optical fiber and spreads out after it exits the fiber but before it reaches lens . Lens collimates the modulated chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal such that the pulse is substantially collimated as it is incident on diffraction grating . Diffraction grating spatially disperses the different optical frequencies in the modulated chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal such that wavelengths vary along the N dimension but not along the M dimension referred to as dispersed optical frequencies where M is the number of channels rows and N is the number of pixel columns in SLM . In this example M equals eight and N equals ten. Dispersed optical frequencies travel through lens which performs a spatial Fourier transform on the dispersed optical frequencies in the plane of SLM .

SLM imposes a mixing matrix on an optical intensity of dispersed optical frequencies . The mixing matrix reduces or prevents light transmission of random portions of dispersed optical frequencies as represented by white boxes. Preferably no column of pixels N is completely blocked. The mixing matrix may be adjusted and programmed using SLM . Mixed dispersed optical frequencies then travel through lens which focuses frequencies onto linear photodiode array . Lens may be for example a cylindrical lens in other embodiments lens may be replaced with another suitable optical component performing an analogous function such as a grating or an integrated optic component e.g. an AWG. When analog signal in the illustrated embodiment a vector of dimension 10 1 is multiplied by the mixing matrix an 8 10 matrix a vector of mixed dispersed optical frequencies having dimension 8 1 are obtained. Mixed dispersed optical frequencies are a compressed version of dispersed optical frequencies . For example the highest box M 1 of mixed dispersed optical frequencies contains the entire dispersed optical frequencies from the highest channel M 1 of SLM in compressed form. Unlike analog signal which is sparse mixed dispersed optical frequencies are substantially all significant frequencies represented by gray squares of varying shades . Further mixed dispersed optical frequencies are a useful representation of dispersed optical frequencies .

Lens focuses mixed dispersed optical frequencies onto linear photodiode array . There are eight photodiodes in linear photodiode array and each photodiode receives the corresponding portion of mixed dispersed optical frequencies to generate an electrical representation based on the intensity of the light in frequencies . For example the highest box M 1 of mixed dispersed optical frequencies is focused on the highest photodiode M 1 on linear photodiode array . Each photodiode integrates the corresponding mixed dispersed optical frequencies in time so as to obtain the electrical representation. The electrical representation travels to the corresponding one of eight ADCs in linear ADC array where the electrical representation is converted from an analog representation to a digital representation. Because apparatus may sample the received signal at a sampling rate at least M times greater than the sampling rate of each ADC in ADC array analog signal may be converted into digital signals at linear ADC array using eight commercially available low cost low rate low power ADCs. The digital representation may then be sent to signal recovery using a process known in the art in order to obtain a digital representation of analog signal .

Although the embodiments described above with respect to primarily utilize amplitude modulation of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal phase modulation may also be used to impose a received signal onto the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal. For example optical modulator may be a suitable phase modulator configured to impose an analog signal on the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal. In this embodiment the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal may be divided into a first portion and a second portion after being generated by chirped optical source . The first portion travels to the phase modulator while the second portion travels to a splitter. The splitter is configured to split the second portion of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal based on a mixing matrix. The second portion is split into M signals where M is the number of channels in spatial light modulator and a dimension in the mixing matrix. The splitter then transmits the split second portion of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal to interfere with the mixed dispersed optical frequencies of the first portion from spatial light modulator .

The phase modulator receives the first portion of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal. Electrodes are positioned within the phase modulator and are coupled to a voltage generator. The voltage generator may be programmed to independently apply voltages to the electrodes so as to change the phase of the first portion of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal traveling through the phase modulator. For example the voltage generator may apply voltages proportional to the analog signal generated by signal generator and received by an analog signal receiver. The signal receiver may be operatively coupled to the voltage generator and may be any structure capable of receiving an analog signal e.g. an antenna. The output of the phase modulator is the analog signal imposed on the first portion of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal referred to as the modulated chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal.

In some embodiments spatial light modulator may be used to adjust the mixing matrix. The mixing matrix may be adjusted for example between chirped repetitively pulsed optical signals. Increasing the number of mixing matrices may increase the resolution of the representation of the received signal obtained by device . Spatial light modulator may be used to bin the pixels together to vary the bandwidth of the received signal. Spatial light modulator may adjust the number of channels M the number of pixel columns N and or the number of pixels utilized in the mixing relative to the bandwidth of the received signal.

Optical digital signal generator may generate an optical digital signal such as an optical time division multiplexed signal. The modulation characteristics of the optical digital signal may be unknown. Optical digital signal generator may be remote from device and coupled to device using any suitable means e.g. a fiber optic cable.

Referring back to after the optical digital signal is generated by optical digital signal generator the optical digital signal is received by device for example by connecting a fiber optic cable from digital signal generator to device e.g. to spatially dispersive element . In some embodiments optical signal receiver is disposed on device e.g. a fiber optic cable port disposed on device . In other embodiments the optical digital signal receiver is disposed outside of device and operatively coupled to device such that the optical digital signal may be transmitted to spatially dispersive element . Spatially dispersive element may spatially disperse frequencies in the received signal and may operate in substantially the same manner as spatially dispersive element of .

Referring back to spatial light modulator may mix the dispersed optical frequencies by imposing a mixing matrix on an optical intensity of the dispersed optical frequencies. Spatial light modulator may operate in substantially the same manner as spatial light modulator of .

Optical sensor may obtain an electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies. Optical sensor may operate in substantially the same manner as optical sensor of .

Signal recovery processor may obtain a digital representation of the received signal based on the electrical representation and the mixing matrix. Further signal recovery processor may determine a modulation format of the digital representation and may demodulate the digital representation based on the modulation format. Signal recovery processor may operate in substantially the same manner as signal recovery processor of . Non limiting examples of digital modulation formats include phase shift keying binary phase modulation frequency shift keying amplitude shift keying on off keying quadrature amplitude modulation continuous phase modulation orthogonal frequency division multiplexing modulation wavelet modulation Trellis coded modulation direct sequence spread spectrum chirp spread spectrum frequency hopping spread spectrum and pulse position modulation.

Next at step an optical domain representation of the received signal is obtained. For example as described above with reference to the received signal may be an RF signal that may be imposed on a periodically chirped optical carrier e.g. in the form of an intensity modulation or a phase modulation of the carrier. Such a modulation of the optical carrier may be considered to provide an optical domain representation of the received signal. Or for example as described above with reference to the received signal may be an optical digital signal. In such an embodiment the received signal is already in the optical domain and may be used as is in which case no action need be taken to obtain an optical domain representation of the received signal.

Next at step different frequencies in the optical domain representation of the signal are spatially dispersed. The spatially dispersing may include producing a time wavelength to space mapping of the optical domain representation. The different frequencies may be dispersed up to the size of the corresponding spatial light modulator for mixing. In some embodiments the spatially dispersing includes using diffraction grating or a prism.

Then at step the dispersed optical frequencies are mixed. The mixing may include imposing a mixing matrix on an optical intensity of the dispersed optical frequencies. For example as discussed above with respect to a spatial light modulator of size M N may be used to impose a mixing matrix. The spatial light modulator may have M channels and N pixel columns defining individual pixels that may be independently adjustable so as to select a particular mixing matrix and to prevent or reduce light transmission of different portions of the dispersed optical frequencies. The mixing preferably is performed so as to avoid blocking an entire column of pixels N at one time. The mixing may include programming and or reprogramming the pixels so as to alter the mixing matrix. In some embodiments the mixing includes using a spatial light modulator.

Then at step an electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies is obtained. The mixed dispersed optical frequencies may be converted from light to current voltage to obtain the electrical representation. Obtaining the electrical representation may include integrating the mixed dispersed optical frequencies in time. Further obtaining the electrical representation may include low pass filtering the mixed dispersed optical frequencies. In some embodiments obtaining an electrical representation includes using a photodiode. In some embodiments an array of photodiodes e.g. an array of M 1 photodiodes are used corresponding to the number of channels M in the spatial light modulator.

Next at step a digital representation of the originally received signal is obtained based on the electrical representation and the mixing matrix. Step may include converting the electrical representation from an analog representation e.g. a signal produced by the optical sensor into a digital representation e.g. using an ADC and recovering a digital representation of the signal based on the digital representation from the ADC and the mixing matrix. In some embodiments obtaining the digital representation includes storing the digital representation of the signal in a memory device. In some embodiments an array of ADCs e.g. an array of M 1 ADCs are used corresponding to the number of channels M in the spatial light modulator. The processing may include using a dedicated circuit or a computer. The processing may include running a suitable program for signal recovery in software such as Matlab The MathWorks Inc. Natick Mass. or Mathematica Wolfram Research Champaign Ill. . Once the digital representation of the signal is obtained the representation may be suitably analyzed.

Method may further include at step determining a modulation format of the digital representation. The modulation format may be determined for example using suitable computer software. Non limiting examples of modulation formats include amplitude modulation double sideband modulation single sideband modulation vestigial sideband modulation quadrature amplitude modulation angle modulation frequency modulation phase modulation phase shift keying binary phase modulation frequency shift keying amplitude shift keying on off keying continuous phase modulation orthogonal frequency division multiplexing modulation wavelet modulation Trellis coded modulation direct sequence spread spectrum chirp spread spectrum frequency hopping spread spectrum and pulse position modulation. Previously known demodulation techniques may require prior knowledge of the type of modulation used to encode a signal for example previously known demodulation phase shift keying may require the use of an interferometer to determine the phase of incoming optical pulses. By contrast aspects of the present invention instead provide a digitized representation of the received signal to suitable software that may be configured to determine the particular type of modulation being used to encode a signal thus providing substantially more flexibility than previously known demodulators.

Then at step the digital representation may be demodulated based on the modulation format using e.g. suitable computer software. In some embodiments determining the modulation format and demodulating the determined modulation format may occur after converting the electrical representation of the mixed dispersed optical frequencies into a digital representation. As such the received signal may be digitized and then demodulated with for example suitable high speed digital demodulation software.

Method may further include displaying the digital representation of the received signal to a user e.g. using a suitable display device such as an LCD or LED display.

In some embodiments a chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal is generated. As discussed with respect to generating the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal may include using a laser configured to generate a suitable optical pulse e.g. a mode locked laser fiber laser titanium doped sapphire Ti Sapphire solid state laser or dye laser. Generating the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal may include chirping the pulse generated by the laser e.g. using a grating a fiber Bragg grating FBG dispersion compensating fiber DCF or standard optical fiber. Generating the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal may further include calibrating the grating to eliminate timing errors in the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal.

In some embodiments the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal is modulated. The modulation includes imposing an analog signal on the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal. Modulating the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal may include receiving an analog signal that is generated by a remote source. Once the analog signal is received it may be imposed on the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal using a modulator such as an intensity modulator e.g. MZM such as described above or a phase modulator such as described below. The modulating of the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal may result in the modulated chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal having varying intensities over time based on the imposed analog signal. Further the modulated chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal may have varying wavelengths over time based on how the chirped repetitively pulsed optical signal was generated.

The functionality of devices and method for obtaining a representation of a received signal may be illustrated by way of Examples which were numerically calculated using Mathematica Wolfram Research Champaign Ill. . is a plot illustrating the intensity of a simulated analog radio frequency signal e.g. a signal received by system illustrated in . In time is normalized to one period of operation of device e.g. the temporal spacing between tand tillustrated in .

While preferred embodiments of the invention are described herein it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made. The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

