---

title: Trunk mounted automotive network server with wireless data capability
abstract: An automotive server arrangement includes an infotainment head unit disposed in a passenger compartment of a vehicle. An antenna is associated with the vehicle. At least one audio speaker is associated with the passenger compartment of the vehicle. A network server is disposed in-between the head unit and the antenna. The network server includes a processor and an amplifier disposed within a common housing. The amplifier drives at least one audio speaker. The processor is connected to the head unit and to the antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08705762&OS=08705762&RS=08705762
owner: Panasonic Automotive Systems Company of America, Division of Panasonic Corporation of North America
number: 08705762
owner_city: Peachtree City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100728
---
The present invention generally relates to automotive infotainment systems. In particular the present invention relates to automotive infotainment systems with internet connectivity.

State of the art automotive infotainment systems require wireless internet capability to provide advanced features and applications to the end user. Some automotive systems provide these internet based services through the end user s cell phone via Bluetooth. Other systems use an embedded modem connected to the head unit or a separate wireless connectivity module. In the future all automotive system designs will include wireless internet connectivity.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a trunk mounted amplifier with wireless capability thereby enabling an automotive infotainment system to have internet connectivity. The microprocessor and or digital signal processor DSP in the remote amplifier may run transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP stack as required for internet connectivity as well as perform audio processing. A high speed bi directional network may be provided between the remote amplifier and the infotainment head unit in the passenger compartment. The high speed bi directional network may enable data to be sent to and received from the internet. The head unit may provide the human machine interface that may be used for user input.

The remote amplifier microprocessor or DSP may provide the processing power for the wireless communication receiver e.g. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax Long Term Evolution LTE WiFi High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA etc. . The remote amplifier may also provide power to the wireless receiver.

The invention comprises in one particular embodiment an automotive server arrangement including an audio head unit disposed in a passenger compartment of a vehicle. An antenna is associated with the vehicle. At least one audio speaker is associated with the passenger compartment of the vehicle. A network server is disposed in between the head unit and the antenna. The network server includes a processor and an amplifier disposed within a common housing. The amplifier drives at least one audio speaker. The processor is connected to the head unit and to the antenna.

The invention comprises in another particular embodiment an automotive server arrangement including an infotainment head unit disposed in a passenger compartment of a vehicle. An antenna is attached to a body of the vehicle and wirelessly transmits and receives signals in an internet compatible format. At least one audio speaker is associated with the passenger compartment of the vehicle. A network server is disposed in a trunk of the vehicle and includes a processor and an amplifier disposed within a common housing. The amplifier drives at least one audio speaker. The processor is connected to the head unit via a high speed automotive network. The processor is connected to the antenna and runs TCP IP stacks for communicating via the interne. The processor has an operational speed of over 400 million instructions per second.

The invention comprises in yet another particular embodiment a method of providing infotainment within a vehicle. An infotainment head unit is provided within a passenger compartment of the vehicle. An antenna is attached to a body of the vehicle. The antenna is used to wirelessly transmit and receive signals in an internet compatible format. At least one audio speaker is associated with the passenger compartment of the vehicle. A network server is provided including a processor and an amplifier disposed within a common housing. The network server is installed in a trunk of the vehicle. The amplifier of the network server is used to drive at least one audio speaker. The processor of the network server is connected to the head unit via a high speed automotive network. The processor of the network server is connected to the antenna. The processor is used to run TCP IP stacks for communicating via the internet. The processor operates at a speed of over 400 million instructions per second.

An advantage of the present invention is that it may provide a proximate connection to wireless antennas and receivers at a more convenient location and with better performance.

Another advantage of the invention is that it may accommodate a greater number of audio channels e.g. up to twelve or even more . By providing an external audio amplifier excessive heat near the head end unit may be avoided. Such excessive heat may otherwise result from a high number of audio channels. The heat of the amplifier may instead be disposed at a remote location where the heat may be less harmful.

Yet another advantage is that a remote network server allows more room in the front dashboard for larger displays removes sources of heat and simplifies the automotive system wiring.

Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views. The exemplifications set out herein illustrate a preferred embodiment of the invention in one form and such exemplifications are not to be construed as limiting in any manner the scope of the invention.

This section is intended to introduce the reader to various aspects of art which may be related to various aspects of the present invention which are described and or claimed below. This discussion is believed to be helpful in providing the reader with background information to facilitate a better understanding of the various aspects of the present invention. Accordingly it should be understood that these statements are to be read in this light and not as admissions of prior art.

Network server may be connected to front display and to one or both of rear displays via a high speed automotive network such as Media Oriented Systems Transport MOST Firewire or Ethernet for example. Rear displays may be connected to each other via the same high speed automotive network.

Network server may be connected to front display and to rear displays via a wireless network such as WiFi for example. Rear displays may be connected to each other via the same wireless network.

A remote amplifier also known as a trunk mounted amplifier normally serves a simple purpose of amplifying and driving multiple speakers in a vehicle. As shown in a networked automotive server may include a quad amplifier IC for driving speakers.

Network server may include a digital signal processor DSP which may be used to implement several functions to enhance the stereo or multiple channel audio signal coming from a radio tuner CD DVD satellite or iPOD audio source. The DSP may also be used to drive multiple speakers to create an optimized surround sound experience. The DSP may implement a fixed or programmable equalization EQ mixing limiting the volume levels as required and compression to avoid distortion.

Most existing remote amplifiers use an analog connection for a uni directional audio transmission path from the head unit to the remote amplifier due to the higher cost of digital networking interfaces. However a digital path from the head unit to the remote amplifier may provide better performance because a digital connection is not susceptible to external environmental noise or distortion. Such a digital path may be in the form of a network access node implementing a MOST Firewire Ethernet AVB Audio Video Bridging or Sony Philips Digital Interface S PDIF digital connection for example. DSP may allow for floating point signal processing and may be capable of running TCP IP stacks. In order to run TCP IP stacks DSP may have a processor speed of over 400 million instructions per second MIPS .

Due to the high level of microprocessor performance and the high speed network between the head unit and the remote amplifier the remote amplifier may include a wireless receiver that includes WiFi WiMAX LTE 3G HSDPA or other wireless data receiver technology. An advantage of having the wireless receiver in the trunk of the vehicle rather than more toward the front of the vehicle is that the wiring from the receiver to a trunk mounted antenna may be more convenient to install and access as well as shorter and less expensive. According to the invention the remote amplifier may be incorporated in an automotive network server with wireless receivers. A thin client front display and rear displays provide for interfacing and control by the user.

In the embodiment of DSP is coupled to three antennas via a WiFi transceiver a WiMAX transceiver and an AM FM tuner respectively. DSP may be in communication with transceivers via respective four bit Secure Digital Input Output SDIO interface. DSP may be in communication with AM FM tuner via a bus operating on the Integrated Interchip Sound I2S electrical serial bus interface standard along with a General Purpose Input Output GPIO interface. DSP may also be in communication with quad amplifier IC via a bus operating on the I2S electrical serial bus interface standard.

DSP may be in communication with an iPOD or other USB compatible device via a bus operating on the Universal Serial Bus USB specification. DSP may be in communication with synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM via a 16 or 32 bit data bus and may be in communication with flash memory via a 16 bit data bus. A crystal oscillator may provide a stable clock signal and or stabilize frequencies for the radio receiver s .

DSP may be in communication with network access node via a Middleware Logical Bus MLB or Reduced Media Independent Interface RMII Application Programming Interface API . Network access node in turn may be connected to the head unit the front display and or the rear displays via a high speed vehicle bus.

Illustrated in is one embodiment of a vehicle including an automotive server arrangement of the invention. Arrangement includes a network server in communication with a head end unit via a high speed bi directional automotive network such as Media Oriented Systems Transport MOST Firewire or Ethernet for example. Head end unit may be disposed in a passenger compartment of the vehicle and in one embodiment head end unit is installed in the dashboard of the vehicle.

In the embodiment shown in network server is disposed in a trunk indicated by dashed lines of the vehicle and antenna is disposed at a rear end of the vehicle rearward of network server .

More generally network server may be disposed in relatively close proximity to antenna e.g. network server may be disposed within four feet of antenna such that the wired connection between network server and antenna is relatively short e.g. four feet long or less with all of the above described advantages of higher signal quality and lower cost. In one embodiment network server is disposed in between head end unit and antenna thereby minimizing the total length of required wiring.

In the case of multiple antennas the network server may be disposed at a location that substantially minimizes the total length of wiring required to connect the network server with each of the antennas and possibly to the head unit. More generally the network server may be disposed within the largest circle that can be defined by the network server and any two of the antennas with the network server and each of the antennas being modeled for this purpose as being in a same horizontal plane.

Even if the antenna s is are placed in different locations on the vehicle the network server may still be disposed in between the head end unit and the antenna s and the network server may still be disposed outside of the dashboard. For example if the antenna is disposed at front end of the vehicle then network server may be disposed forward of head end unit in between head end unit and the antenna. As another example if the antenna is disposed on the outside of roof of the vehicle then network server may be disposed above head end unit on the inside of roof in between head end unit and the antenna.

Network server includes a processor not shown for processing the audio signals that the processor receives from antenna . In one embodiment antenna receives and transmits wireless signals from and to the internet. The processor within network server may operate at a speed of greater than 400 MIPS such that the processor is able to run TCP IP stacks and bi directionally communicate via the internet.

Network server also includes an amplifier not shown for driving audio speakers . All of the components of network server may be disposed within a common housing . In particular the processor and the amplifier of network server may be disposed in a same housing .

At block an antenna is attached to a body of the vehicle. In some exemplary embodiments the antenna is disposed in the front windshield of the vehicle or at some other place on the vehicle where the antenna may get good reception. However in the embodiment of antenna is attached at a rear end of the vehicle as shown.

At block the antenna is used to wirelessly transmit and receive signals in an internet compatible format. In some exemplary embodiments head unit may exchange information with a web site via the internet. Thus head unit may create signals for wireless transmission by antenna wherein the signals are in a format that is compatible with the internet. Likewise the signals received by antenna from internet based sources may also be compatible with the internet and head unit may be capable of processing such received signals. For example head unit may communicate with web sites that provide navigation information such as maps corresponding to the vehicle s current location. That is head unit may wirelessly transmit the vehicle s current location to the web site and the web site may respond by sending corresponding maps that are received by antenna in the form of wireless signals.

At block at least one audio speaker is provided in association with the passenger compartment of the vehicle. As shown in the vehicle includes audio speakers . The outputs of speakers may be pointed towards the passenger compartment so that the passengers in the compartment can best hear the output of the speakers.

At block a network server is provided including a processor and an amplifier disposed within a common housing. In the embodiment of for example network server includes a digital signal processor DSP and a quad amplifier IC . The processor and amplifier may be placed in a same housing such as housing .

At block the network server is installed in a trunk of the vehicle. As shown in the example embodiment of network server is mounted in a rear trunk of the vehicle. Thus network server is disposed in between head unit and antenna and network server is within about four feet of antenna . Due to this relatively short wiring between network server and antenna the signals exchanged between network server and antenna are likely to experience only minimal degradation in transit. Moreover the lengths of wiring to head unit which may be relatively expensive may be also minimized.

At block the amplifier of the network server is used to drive at least one audio speaker. That is quad amplifier IC may amplify audio signals from the head unit and transmit the amplified signals to speakers and so that the amplified audio signals may be played on the speakers. Moreover microprocessor DSP may enhance as well as amplify the audio signal sent to the speakers.

At block the processor of the network server is connected to the head unit via a high speed automotive network. In the exemplary embodiment of the DSP microprocessor of network server is connected to a front display of a head unit via a high speed automotive network such as MOST Firewire or Ethernet AVB.

At block the processor of the network server is connected to the antenna. As shown in network server may be connected to antenna via an antenna cable . As shown in network servers may also be connected to respective antennas via respective antenna cables . As further shown in a microprocessor DSP controls via SDIO Interface a single chip WiFi transceiver connected to antenna s to a single chip WiMAX transceiver controlled via SDIO interface and or via an IS2 GPIO and an AM FM tuner.

At block the processor is used to run TCP IP stacks for communicating via the interne wherein the processor operates at a speed of over 400 million instructions per second. Microprocessor DSP for example is able to run TCP IP stacks and operates at a speed of over 400 million instructions per second. More generally however a processor within the scope of the invention may need to be able to run TCP IP stacks and operate at a certain speed only to the extent that such is needed to communicate via the internet. A processor within the scope of the invention may need to have the processing capabilities needed to both enhance the audio for the amplifier and communicate via the internet for other in vehicle web based applications.

A trunk mounted amplifier has been described herein as providing internet connectivity to the head end unit. However it is to be understand that within the scope of the invention any remote module with sufficient processing power and a high speed network e.g. MOST Firewire Ethernet AVB to the head end unit could host the wireless receiver and provide data to from the head end unit for the wireless internet connection. Sufficient processing power for responsive internet connection may be provided for example by a CPU with a speed of greater than 400 MIPS.

While the invention may be susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However it should be understood that the invention is not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the invention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following appended claims.

