---

title: Image processing system and processing method thereof
abstract: A processing method of an image processing system, which is applied with at least one real-time messaging video communication system of an electronic device and contains a start module, a process detecting module and an image processing module, includes the steps of: installing the process detecting module into the real-time messaging video communication system by the start module; detecting whether the real-time messaging video communication system starts the real-time communication by the process detecting module; installing the image processing module into the real-time messaging video communication system when the real-time messaging video communication system starts the real-time communication; and generating a plurality of converted frame data by the image processing module in accordance with a plurality of frame data to be displayed by the real-time messaging video communication system. In addition, the image processing system is also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08665314&OS=08665314&RS=08665314
owner: Arcsoft (Hangzhou) Multimedia Technology Co., Ltd.
number: 08665314
owner_city: Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20100503
---
This Non provisional application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a on Patent Application No s . 200910138670.9 filed in People s Republic of China on May 12 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to an image processing system and its processing method. More particularly the present invention relates to an image processing system which is applied with a real time messaging video communication system and a processing method thereof.

With the development of electronic industry and the advance of internet technique transmitting messages through internet is fairly efficient accurate and convenient nowadays. In addition because it is not restricted by time and region real time messaging communication systems gradually surpass other communication means and become the most important modern communication tool.

The early real time communication usually transmitted text messages only. In fact sometimes it is quite hard to express feelings or emotions through vocabularies. Therefore a real time messaging communication system with a visual communication function is recently invented so that users can see each other on monitors during the real time communication. Although users can see each other by such a visual communication function the previous communication systems usually cannot provide clear images under the limitations of camera and internet bandwidth. Thus the users have to endure the blurred images during real time communication.

Consequently it is desirable to provide an image processing system and its processing method that can display clear images without upgrading cameras and internet bandwidths when the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication thereby improving the practicability of the real time messaging video communication system.

In view of the foregoing the present invention is to provide an image processing system and its processing method that can display clear images when the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication without upgrading the cameras and the internet bandwidths thereby improving the practicability of the real time messaging video communication system.

To achieve the above an image processing system in accordance with the present invention is applied with at least one real time messaging video communication system of an electronic device and includes a start module a process detecting module and an image processing module.

The process detecting module is installed into the real time messaging video communication system by the start module and the process detecting module detects whether the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication. When the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication the image processing module receives a plurality of frame data to be displayed by the real time messaging video communication system and then generates a plurality of converted frame data corresponding to the frame data.

To achieve the above the present invention also discloses a processing method of an image processing system which is applied with at least one real time messaging video communication system of an electronic device and contains a start module a process detecting module and an image processing module. The processing method includes the following steps of installing the process detecting module into the real time messaging video communication system by the start module detecting whether the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication by the process detecting module installing the image process module into the real time messaging video communication system when the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication and generating a plurality of converted frame data by the image processing module in accordance with a plurality of frame data to be displayed by the real time messaging video communication system wherein the converted frame data is corresponding to the frame data.

As mentioned above the image processing system and its processing method in accordance with the present invention includes the image processing module for rooming in the frame data and processing the image enhancement. In comparison with the prior art the present invention is beneficial for improving the resolution of images so that it can provide clear images without upgrading cameras and internet bandwidths when the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication thereby improving the practicability of real time messaging video communication systems.

The present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description which proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein the same references relate to the same elements.

As shown in the image processing system is applied with a real time messaging video communication system of the electronic device . The image processing system includes a start module a process detecting module and an image processing module . In practice the real time messaging video communication system can be MSN Messenger Skype Yahoo Messenger or other real time communication systems having the similar functions.

The start module installs the process detecting module into the real time messaging video communication system . In practice the start module specifically detects every processing step implemented in the electronic device . When the start module detects the real time messaging video communication system of the electronic device is enabled it proceeds to install the process detecting module into the real time messaging video communication system .

The process detecting module can detect whether the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication. In practice the process detecting module can have a comparing table recording a plurality of parameter data of the real time messaging video communication system . Therefore the process detecting module can detect whether the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication by comparing the parameter data recorded on the comparing table. For example these parameter data can be the titles of the processing steps the names of the real time messaging video communication systems or other related data used to determine whether a real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication. Furthermore in this embodiment the process detecting module can be a real time process detecting module.

The image processing module receives a plurality of frame data which are to be displayed by the real time messaging video communication system when the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication and then generates a plurality of converted frame data corresponding to the frame data.

In practice the image processing module can be operated in a default processing mode an enhanced processing mode and a comparing mode. As the image processing module is operated in the default processing mode it can room in out the received original frame data. As the image processing module is operated in the enhanced processing mode it can process the received original frame data according to an image enhancement technique. As the image processing module is operated in the comparing mode the real time messaging video communication system can display both the original frame data and the converted frame data which are processed by the image processing module .

To be noted the image enhancement technique can process the original frame data according to an image optimization algorithm to generate clear images. In detail the image optimization algorithm can be implemented by the following steps. Firstly the original frame data is processed through a high pass filter to extract the high frequency part from the original frame data. Meanwhile the original frame data is also decomposed into a flat zone and an edge zone. Continuously the original frame data and the flat zone are amplified according to a simple interpolation algorithm and the edge zone and the high frequency part are amplified according to both a complicated and a simple interpolation algorithm. Finally every amplified data individually obtained from the original frame data the flat zone the edge zone and the high frequency part are all combined together to generate a converted frame data with the features of anti aliasing sharp edges detailed images and high contrast.

Moreover as shown in the image processing system further includes an output selection module . The output selection module can enable the image processing module to specifically convert the received original frame data into the converted frame data and then output the converted frame data to the real time messaging video communication system .

With reference to the flow chart of in view of a processing method in accordance with the present invention is applied with the above mentioned image processing system and includes the steps S to S.

In the step S the process detecting module is installed into the real time messaging video communication system by the start module . In this embodiment the start module as mentioned above can be used to detect every processing step in the electronic device . When the start module detects the real time messaging video communication system of the electronic device is enabled it further installs the process detecting module into the real time messaging video communication system .

In the step S the process detecting module detects whether the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication. In the embodiment the process detecting module can detect whether the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication according to a comparing table recording a plurality of parameter data. Otherwise the process detecting module can also implement other means to detect whether the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication.

If the process detecting module determines that the real time messaging video communication system has started the real time communication the step S is then performed to install the image processing module into the real time messaging video communication system . Otherwise if the process detecting module determines that the real time messaging video communication system has not started the real time communication the step S is implemented again. That is the process detecting module is a real time process detecting module.

In the step the image processing module generates a plurality of converted frame data in accordance with a plurality of frame data which are to be displayed by the real time messaging video communication system . In addition the converted frame data is corresponding to the frame data. In practice the image processing module can be operated in a default processing mode an enhanced processing mode or a comparing mode respectively to process the frame data optionally by rooming in out the frame data converting the frame data according to an image enhancement technique or displaying both the frame data and the converted frame data on the real time messaging video communication system .

As shown in a processing method of the image processing system according to another embodiment is applied with the above mentioned image processing system . In the current embodiment the processing method further includes the steps S to S. In the step S a start button is displayed. The processing method further determines whether the start button is clicked in the step . After the start button has been clicked the step is then implemented. Oppositely if the start button has not been clicked the step S is implemented again. In the step S an output selection module enables the image processing module to generate the converted frame data corresponding to the received frame data and then output the converted frame data to the real time messaging video communication system .

It is noted that users only have to install and enable the image processing system and then the image process system automatically implements the processing method described above to provide clear images. In fact even if the electronic device has more than one real time messaging video communication system simultaneously such as MSN Messenger Skype and Yahoo Messenger the image processing system still can implement image processing independently for each real time messaging video communication system once the image processing system has been enabled.

The image processing system of the present invention and its processing method will be described hereinafter. In order to make the invention more comprehensive the real time messaging video communication system is for example but not limited to MSN Messenger.

If the image processing system of the present invention has been installed into an electronic device the start module of the image processing system can obtain related data of every processing step by an application programming interface API of the electronic device.

When the start module detects that the real time messaging video communication system MSN Messenger exists it can install dynamic link library DLL of the process detecting module into MSN Messenger through the application programming interface. In practice the above mentioned installation can be completed by either one of the following two ways. The first way is to use the standard hook technique provided by Microsoft Corp. to install the process detecting module into each real time messaging video communication system. The second way is to alter the access code of the application programming interface built in the real time messaging video communication system to redirect to the image processing system of the present invention.

When MSN Messenger starts the real time communication the image processing module can initialize the data for image processing and installs a graphics device interface GDI into the real time messaging video communication system to obtain every frame data to be displayed by the real time messaging video communication system. In practice the image processing module fills particular function data in the API of MSN Messenger e.g. StretchDIBits . When MSN Messenger implements the certain function it can call the image processing module to retrieve every frame data.

Continuously the image processing module can be operated in a default processing mode an enhanced processing mode or a comparing mode according to user s needs. For example when the image processing module is operated in the default processing mode it only rooms in or rooms out the frame data. In addition when the image processing module is operated in the enhanced processing mode the features of each received frame data such as sharpness DeBlock DeNoise and resolution are optimized for the sake of providing clearer images. Moreover when the image processing module is operated in the comparing mode the original images frame data and the processed images converted frame data are both provided to the users.

According to the hardware structure and the processing method described above the image processing system can start automatically when the electronic device is enabled. Moreover after the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication the image processing module can specifically process the frame data to be displayed by the real time messaging video communication system thereby providing clear images.

In summary the image processing system and its processing method in accordance with the present invention can combine the image processing system and the real time messaging video communication systems together via the start module and the process detecting module of the image processing system. Moreover the image processing module of the image processing system can room in the frame data and process the image enhancement. In comparison with the prior art the present invention can improve image resolution without upgrading the camera and the internet bandwidth so that it is able to not only provide clear images but also improve the practicability of image processing systems when the real time messaging video communication system starts the real time communication.

Although the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments this description is not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications of the disclosed embodiments as well as alternative embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the art. It is therefore contemplated that the appended claims will cover all modifications that fall within the true scope of the invention.

