---

title: Extensible three dimensional circuit
abstract: An extensible three dimensional circuit includes an access layer and crossbar arrays overlying the access layer. The crossbar arrays are formed from tiled mini-arrays of crossing lines and electrically accessed by the access layer. The crossing lines comprise at least one bundle of traveling lines, the at least one bundle of traveling lines moving through the circuit both laterally and vertically. Programmable crosspoint devices are disposed between the crossing lines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07902869&OS=07902869&RS=07902869
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07902869
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
This invention has been made with government support under Contract No. HR0011 09 3 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

In the past decades the semiconductor industry has been improving the performance and density of integrated circuits primarily by shrinking the size of the electronic elements within the circuits. However a number of barriers are becoming evident which increase the difficulty of making further reduction to the size of these elements. One potential solution for increasing the performance and planar density of integrated circuits is to create three dimensional circuits which contain multiple layers of interconnected circuitry.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

There are many metrics that can be used to evaluate three dimensional circuits and many trade offs that can be made between metric affecting parameters in any given design. For example extensibility addressability density edge effects active layer via spacing and trace topology may all be metrics which are used to evaluate and optimize the performance of a three dimensional circuit. Specific examples of these metrics are given below for a multilayer three dimensional memory circuit.

One challenge in designing and manufacturing three dimensional circuits is to find a balance between the relevant metrics. For example some designs are extensible but have a fine grained structure that make addressability and edge effect handling difficult. Other designs that are easily addressable with no edge effects have low limits to the number of array layers. The illustrative designs below describe solutions which balance the relevant metrics to produce three dimensional circuits which are extensible mitigate the edge effects and are easily addressable. Other metrics such as memory density active layer spacing and trace topology are also addressed.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present apparatus systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment but not necessarily in other embodiments. The various instances of the phrase in one embodiment or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used in the specification and appended claims a crossbar array includes a set of upper crossbar wires a set of lower crossbar wires which cross the upper crossbar wires at a non zero angle and programmable crosspoint devices interposed between the wires at their crossing points.

According to one illustrative embodiment the programmable crosspoint devices are memristive devices. Memristive devices are described in U.S. Patent App. Pub. No. 2008 0079029 entitled Multi terminal Electrically Actuated Switch and U.S. Patent App. Pub. No. 2008 009033 entitled Electrically Actuated Switch both to R. Stanley Williams which are hereby incorporated in their entirety. Additionally or alternatively the programmable crosspoint devices may include memcapacitive devices. Various illustrative embodiments of memcapacitive devices are described in PCT Application No. PCT US2009 047164 to Dmitri Strukov et al. entitled Capacitive Crossbar Arrays filed Jun. 12 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Throughout the specifications and appended claims the term programmable crosspoint device refers to a broad family of devices or technologies which provide the ability to program and sense state changes in devices which are interposed between crossing conductive elements. The term memristive device or memristor refers to a specific type of programmable crosspoint device which uses dopant motion within a matrix to alter the resistive state of the device.

Memristive devices exhibit a memory of past electrical conditions. For example a memristive device may include a matrix material which contains mobile dopants. These dopants can be moved within a matrix to dynamically alter the electrical operation of an electrical device. The motion of dopants can be induced by the application of a programming electrical voltage across a suitable matrix. The programming voltage generates a relatively high electrical field through the memristive matrix and alters the distribution of dopants within the matrix. After removal of the electrical field the location and characteristics of the dopants remain stable until the application of another programming electrical field. These changing dopant configurations within a matrix produce changes in the electrical resistance or other characteristics of the device.

The memristive device can be read by applying a lower reading voltage which allows the internal electrical resistance of the memristive device to be sensed but does not generate a high enough electrical field to cause significant dopant motion. According to one illustrative embodiment the memristive device exhibits a rectifying behavior similar to Schottky diode. The state of the memristive device can be read by applying a full forward voltage bias across a specified junction while reverse biasing other memristive devices in the array to suppress leakage currents.

Each of the memristive crosspoint devices may be used to represent one or more bits of data. For example in the simplest case memristive crosspoint devices may have two states a conductive state and a nonconductive state. The conductive state may represent a binary 1 and the nonconductive state may represent a binary 0 or vice versa. Binary data can be written into the crossbar array by changing the conductive state of the memristive crosspoint devices . The binary data can then be retrieved by sensing the state of the memristive crosspoint devices . Additionally or alternatively the crossbar array can incorporate memristive crosspoint devices which have more than two states.

There are a wide variety of interconnection architectures which can incorporate the illustrative principles described below. For example PCT Application No. PCT US2009 039666 to Dmitri Strukov et al. entitled Three Dimensional Multilayer Circuit filed Apr. 6 2009 describes a three dimensional interconnection scheme and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Additionally various illustrative applications and examples of multilayer circuits which incorporate crossbar interconnections are given in Nano CMOS architectures using a field programmable nanowire interconnect Gregory Snider et al. Nanotechnology 18 035204 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

For purposes of illustration the following examples assume a three dimensional memory circuit which includes an access layer with area distributed access gates. The connections are made between the access gates and the overlying crossbar layer by vertical vias. The access layer may have a number of different forms including complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS or other conventional computer circuitry. This CMOS circuitry can provide additional functionality to the memristive device such as input output functions buffering logic or other functionality. In addition to the area distributed configuration illustrated the principles described could also be applied to access layers with peripherally distributed access devices. Overlying the access layer are multiple crossbar array layers. A crossbar array layer includes two classes of parallel control lines that cross each other with programmable crosspoint devices formed where pairs of control lines cross. To distinguish the two control line classes they will be termed row lines and column lines. 

According to one illustrative embodiment each array layer is organized as a regular grid of small rectangular or square memory arrays or mini arrays. Row and column control lines connect to control lines in overlying layers in a manner that permits at least one of the row or column line classes to travel away from its original active circuit layer connection point. This traveling action enables a practically unbounded number of array layers by allowing each crosspoint device to be formed at the crossing of a unique row line column line pair. Meanwhile the regular grid organization of small rectangular arrays permits clean handling of edge effects through control line direction reversal and peripheral loopback signals. The regular grid organization and complete edge effect handling result in simple memory element addressability.

As discussed above this circuit includes many small rectangular or square fully connected mini arrays laid out in a larger rectangular grid. A number of these mini arrays can be tiled together to form the layer within the three dimensional circuit . Because the three dimensional circuit terminates along the edge of a row of mini arrays the three dimensional circuit will have regular addressability and clean edge effects.

To connect the row and column lines to layers above and below the crossbar array a number of vias can be used. The vias associated with the row lines are illustrated as shaded boxes which have a slightly larger cross section than the row lines. Similarly the vias associated with the column lines are shown as unshaded boxes . The vias and the lines connected to the vias create conductive paths in the circuit .

The designation of row and column lines is arbitrary. For purposes of illustration the shaded group of lines is designated as row lines and the unshaded group of perpendicular lines is designated as column lines . The shaded row lines and the unshaded column lines may be illustrated as north south or east west within a given array layer and their orientation may vary from figure to figure.

The lower portion of shows a cutaway perspective view of the three dimensional circuit. In this illustrative embodiment the lower portion of the circuit is a CMOS layer which includes gates which selectively access conductive paths which travel through the three dimensional circuit . As can be seen in the vias which connect to the row lines form a vertical pillar which extends vertically through the entire three dimensional circuit . However the wiring path of the column lines travel both laterally and vertically through the circuit such that the column lines encounter a new group of row lines in each layer. This stair step path allows the CMOS gates connected to the column conductive paths to uniquely address additional programmable crosspoint devices in each layer and provides multi layer extensibility for the circuit. In some embodiments the CMOS gates may be significantly larger than the crossbar components. However a number of additional layers can be added to the circuit and uniquely addressed with minimal interconnection overhead and without increasing the number of CMOS gates .

As discussed above and in one embodiment of the invention when traveling column lines reach the periphery of circuit they terminate leaving undriven and underutilized lines. As discussed below undriven lines are lines which are connected to programmable memory devices but are not connected to access circuitry. Underutilized lines are connected to access circuitry but lack a full complement of programmable memory devices. Both undriven and underutilized lines are caused by edge effects and can produce gaps in an otherwise uniform addressing scheme.

To effectively loop the column lines back into the circuit the direction of travel for the column lines alternates. In the bottom portion of the traveling column lines can be seen traveling upward and from the left to the right. When this group of column lines reaches the periphery of the circuit they form emerging lines . These emerging lines in most cases are underutilized in that they are not connected to a full complement of programmable crosspoint devices because they prematurely terminate at the edge of the circuit . In this example the full complement of crosspoint devices is 12. However the bottom most emerging line is underutilized because it is connected to only 4 crosspoint devices.

Adjacent to the group of emerging lines is a group of undriven lines which are traveling the opposite direction. The loopback traces connect to the emerging lines and loop back to connect these emerging lines to the adjacent undriven lines . Undriven lines are unusable because they have no connection to the underlying access gates. Combining the emerging lines with the undriven lines forms lines with a full complement of crosspoint devices. This resolves a number of issues including eliminating gaps in the addressing scheme which are not useable and eliminating floating lines which may interfere with the operation of the circuit.

As the column lines travel through the circuit they step upward to connect with the next mini array at a new level. Consequently the path of the column lines is similar to an ascending spiral or staircase. For purposes of illustration the bottom portion of shows only three layers . The circuit may have any number of additional layers. The bottom most portion of traveling column lines begin in the bottom layer and steps upward with each lateral move.

The upper portion of shows a plan view of a single array layer of circuit and depicts the race track shaped path that the traveling column lines take through successive layers of the circuit . On the lower portion of the race track shaped path the column lines travel from the left to the right and on the upper portion of the race track shaped path they travel from right to left. This is shown by the black arrows just below and above the race track shaped path. Each mini array that the traveling column lines encounter is at new level. However because the row lines are stationary and connect to all layers with the same foot print the column lines cannot loop back to the point where they would encounter the same row lines for a second time. In this illustrative example consider the group of traveling column lines surrounded by the dotted outline in the bottom layer . These traveling column lines encounter a first group of row lines in bottom layer . The traveling column lines then step up and encounter a different group of row lines in the second layer and a third group of row lines in the third layer and so on. After looping back and traveling from right to left through the circuit the column lines cannot continue around the race track through loop back traces on the left because the column lines would reencounter the row lines in the dotted outline for the second time but eight layers higher in the circuit . Consequently for this illustrative embodiment the traveling column lines pass through the circuit only twice once in each direction. This limits the extensibility of this illustrative design to 8 stacked crossbar arrays. Traveling column lines that start in a different mini array than those discussed above might make use of both the left side and right side loop back traces but would similarly be limited to eight layers before reencountering the same row lines .

In the specification and appended claims the term lateral or laterally refers to a direction or position which is anywhere within a single circuit plane the term vertical or vertically refers a direction or position which is up or down the stack of circuit planes which make up the three dimensional circuit. The term pillar lines refers to lines or groups of lines which travel vertically but not laterally through a three dimensional circuit except into mini arrays adjacent to the pillar. Pillar lines maintain the same vertical via footprint in all layers. The term travelling lines refers to lines or groups of lines which move both vertically and laterally through a three dimensional circuit. A three dimensional circuit may be comprised of all pillar lines all traveling lines or a combination of traveling and pillar lines. In this illustrative embodiment at least a portion of the lines in the three dimensional circuit travel. For example in the shaded row lines are pillar lines and the unshaded column lines are traveling lines.

As discussed above the size of the underlying CMOS access gates may be significantly greater than the minimum feature size of the crossbar arrays. Consequently the packing density of the CMOS access gates and the access layer routing density can be a limiting factor in the overall density of the three dimensional circuit. To achieve high packing densities the CMOS access gates can be uniformly distributed over the upper surface of the CMOS access layer . However to form the mini arrays the vias which connect to the row and column lines may have a different and denser packing arrangement. A routing layer can then be used to connect each of the CMOS access gates to the appropriate row or column via. This via then interconnects with other vias to address the programmable memory devices.

Because the column lines share memory elements with row lines from both sides of the track they are traveling along the edge effect handling is slightly different. shows one illustrative embodiment for handling edge loopback traces for the architecture described in . The routing formed by the loopback traces is shown on a shaded grid which represents the multilayer circuit . Each square in the grid represents a footprint of a mini array within the circuit. In this embodiment the loopback traces form double overlapping loops. The loopback traces connect a first bundle of traveling lines moving a first direction to a nonadjacent bundle of traveling lines traveling in the opposite direction. This avoids reconnecting the traveling lines with pillar lines with which they have already interacted. In the example illustrated in the traveling lines can move laterally and upward through the circuit for 16 layers before reencountering the same column lines.

While the loopback approach described in can be sufficient for most practical choices of layer count a loopback approach that achieves the optimal maximum is possible as shown in . shows an extensible multilayer circuit which is represented by a grid of mini arrays. The loopback connections in this illustrative design form double overlapping folded loops . Using the double overlapping folded loop design each of the traveling lines can interact with each of the stationary pillar lines thereby achieving maximum interconnectivity between the traveling lines and the stationary lines. This increases the length of the traveling lines but allows for unique and complete addressability.

As the length of the traveling lines increases the electrical resistance of the traveling lines may also increase. To obtain the desired functionality there may be design limits which define the maximum allowable electrical resistance of the lines. The pillar lines may have a relatively low resistance because of the short electrical path between the underlying access circuitry and any crosspoint device connected to the pillar lines. However the traveling lines are much longer and may have a significantly higher resistance. This high resistance may be particularly limiting when a traveling line serves the role of a row line and carries the current of many fully selected memory elements during a full row read operation.

The designs which are illustrated and described above are only illustrative embodiments of possible circuit configurations. A variety of other configurations could be used. For example are diagrams of an illustrative extensible three dimensional circuit with a double density configuration. As discussed above the pillar lines extend alternatively to either side of the central pillar. The traveling lines pass between the upper pillar lines and the lower pillar lines . As shown in a first memristive device is formed between an upper pillar line and a traveling line . The second memristive device is formed between a lower pillar line and the traveling line . This double density configuration increases the number of programmable crosspoint devices by a factor of two for a given area and number of row or column line sublayers.

Programmable crosspoint devices can be formed with a polarity. In some embodiments a polarized crosspoint device may exhibit diode like behavior which allows a flow of electrical current in a forward direction but substantially prevents the flow of current in a reverse direction. This diode like characteristic can be utilized to reduce reverse leakage currents which interfere with reading operations.

In this illustrative embodiment the first memristive device has a polarity indicated by the superimposed triangle. The polarity of the first memristive device allows current to flow from the traveling line to the upper pillar line but prevents the flow of current in the opposite direction. The opposite polarity of the second memristive device allows the flow of current from the traveling line to the lower pillar line but prevents the flow of current in the opposite direction. This alternating polarity allows all memory elements to appear to be of the same polarity on any given row or column line. However other techniques of handling two different polarities of memory element on the same row or column line are possible if handled within the active circuit layer.

Thus a unique aspect of this design is that all lines connect to some amount of first layer metal trace. That means that all via connections to the access gates in the active circuit layer can be spread out somewhat and still be directly connected to the lines by vertical vias .

In sum the designs include small rectangular mini arrays with traveling row and or column lines. The designs are extensible with simple addressing and edge effects that can be handled by a variety of direction reversing techniques and loopback traces. The designs are also amenable to double density techniques. At least one class of access vias can always be spread out evenly namely the class that drives traces on the lowest metal layer. For these designs connections between a second class of access vias can be made using a one time only translation layer. These principles provide a superior interconnection architecture which resolves edge effects and reduces connection complexity.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe embodiments and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

