---

title: Self healing networking device systems and related methods
abstract: In one embodiment, a networking system can comprise a networking device comprising an operating system module and performance management modules. The performance management modules can comprise at least one of a channel hopping module or a channel bonding module. The channel hopping module can switch the networking device from a first channel to a second channel having less interference than the first channel. The channel bonding module can toggle the networking device between a single-channel communications mode and a bonded channel communications mode via a plurality of bonded channels. The operating system module can actuate at least one of the performance management modules to sustain a performance level of the networking device in response to one or more triggering events from a performance review operation executed by the operating system module. Other examples and related methods are described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08499072&OS=08499072&RS=08499072
owner: Belkin International, Inc.
number: 08499072
owner_city: Playa Vista
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100728
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 229 206 titled Self Healing Router System and filed on Jul. 28 2009. The disclosure of the referenced application is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to networking systems and relates more particularly to self healing networking devices systems and related methods.

With the expansion of internet broadband services and wireless technologies the use of local networks in home and office environments has become widespread. Such local networks require the use of networking devices such as modems and routers to establish a local area network LAN and to communicate one or more client devices of the LAN to the internet. Unfortunately with the performance demands placed on such networking devices and the variable nature of wireless links between devices networking devices often tend to become unstable to the point where their ability to keep client devices connected to each other and to the internet is degraded.

Accordingly a need exists for networking devices capable of monitoring themselves and or self healing themselves to maintain the performance of the network connections they support.

For simplicity and clarity of illustration the drawing figures illustrate the general manner of construction and descriptions and details of well known features and techniques may be omitted to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the invention. Additionally elements in the drawing figures are not necessarily drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention. The same reference numerals in different figures denote the same elements.

The terms first second third fourth and the like in the description and in the claims if any are used for distinguishing between similar elements and not necessarily for describing a particular sequential or chronological order. It is to be understood that the terms so used are interchangeable under appropriate circumstances such that the embodiments described herein are for example capable of operation in sequences other than those illustrated or otherwise described herein. Furthermore the terms include and have and any variations thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method system article device or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method system article device or apparatus.

The terms left right front back top bottom over under and the like in the description and in the claims if any are used for descriptive purposes and not necessarily for describing permanent relative positions. It is to be understood that the terms so used are interchangeable under appropriate circumstances such that the embodiments of the invention described herein are for example capable of operation in other orientations than those illustrated or otherwise described herein.

The terms couple coupled couples coupling and the like should be broadly understood and refer to connecting two or more elements or signals mechanically or otherwise. Two or more mechanical elements may be mechanically coupled but not otherwise coupled. Coupling whether mechanical or otherwise may be for any length of time e.g. permanent or semi permanent or only for an instant. Mechanical coupling and the like should be broadly understood and include mechanical coupling of all types. The absence of the word removably removable and the like near the word coupled and the like does not mean that the coupling etc. in question is or is not removable.

In one embodiment a networking system can comprise a networking device comprising an operating system module and performance management modules controllable by the operating system module. The performance management modules can comprise at least one of a channel hopping module or a channel bonding module. The channel hopping module can be configured to switch the networking device from a first channel to a second channel having less interference than the first channel. The channel bonding module can be configured to toggle the networking device between a single channel communications mode via a single channel and a bonded channel communications mode via a plurality of bonded channels. The operating system module can be configured to actuate at least one of the performance management modules to sustain a performance level of the networking device in response to one or more triggering events from a performance review operation executed by the operating system module.

In one embodiment a router comprises an operating system module and performance management modules controllable by the operating system module. The performance management module can comprise at least one of 1 a channel hopping module configured to switch the router from a first channel to a second channel having less interference than the first channel or 2 a channel bonding module configured to toggle the router between a single channel communications mode via a single channel and a bonded channel communications mode via dual channels. The operating system module can be configured to actuate at least one of the performance management modules to sustain a performance level of the router in response to at least one of 1 a periodic trigger enabled upon expiration of a periodic predetermined timeframe or 2 one or more triggering events from a performance review operation executed by the operating system module.

In one example a method for providing a networking system can comprise providing a networking device providing an operating system module for the networking device and providing performance management modules for the networking device and controllable by the operating system module. Providing the performance management modules can comprise at least one of 1 providing a channel hopping module configured to switch the networking device from a first channel to a second channel having less interference than the first channel or 2 providing a channel bonding module configured to toggle the networking device between a single channel communications mode via a single channel and a bonded channel communications mode via dual channels. Providing the operating system module can comprises configuring the operating system module to actuate at least one of the performance management modules to sustain a performance level of the networking device in response to at least one of 1 a periodic trigger enabled upon expiration of a periodic predetermined timeframe or 2 one or more triggering events from a performance review operation executed by the operating system module.

Other examples and embodiments are further disclosed herein. Such examples and embodiments may be found in the figures in the claims and or in the description of the present application.

Referring now to the figures presents a block diagram illustrating multiple embodiments of an exemplary network for providing both wired and or wireless internet access. includes first wide area network WAN and second wide area network WAN . First WAN includes first local area network LAN that is in bi directional communication with internet and second WAN includes second LAN LAN that is in bi directional communication with internet .

First local area network LAN includes modem networking device wired computing device and wireless computing device . In modem is coupled to and in bi directional communication with internet networking device is coupled to and in bi directional communication with modem wired computing device is coupled to and in bi directional communication with networking device and wireless computing device is coupled to and in wireless bi directional communication with networking device . Wired computing device can be implemented as any suitable computing device in wired communication e.g. via Ethernet cabling with networking device such as for example a laptop a personal computer PC a console gaming system e.g. a SONY Playstation system and the like. Wireless computing device can be implemented as any suitable computing device in wireless communication e.g. pursuant to the IEEE 802.11 g standard with networking device such as for example a wireless laptop a personal computer with wireless capabilities a console gaming system e.g. a SONY Playstation system with wireless capabilities and the like.

Modem can be a special purpose firmware device for converting digital information produced by computing devices into analog signals for transmission across broadband lines e.g. coaxial transmission lines . In some embodiments modem can be implemented as a cable modem and is in bi directional communication with internet via a wired connection provided by a local cable television or programming provider. In other embodiments modem can be implemented as a digital subscriber line DSL modem and is in bi directional communication with internet via a wired connection provided by a local telephone service provider. In still other embodiments modem can be implemented as any other type of modem in communication with internet such as for example a fiber optic solution a satellite solution or some such other wireless solution e.g. cellular hybrid satellite DSL and the like offering internet connectivity to LAN .

Networking device can be a special purpose firmware device coupled to and in communication with one or more computing devices on a LAN such as LAN . In some embodiments networking device facilitates communication between the one or more computing devices associated with LAN and interfaces between LAN and modem . In networking device can be configured to direct packetized data where the packetized data can be a received from internet for an internet protocol IP addresses within LAN b sent from one or more IP addresses within LAN to one or more IP addresses outside of LAN and serviced by internet and or c sent from one or more IP addresses within LAN to one or more other IP addresses within LAN . Networking device can serve as a connection between two or more packet switched networks and can look at the source and destination addresses of the packets passing through to determine which route to send them. In some examples networking device can be a router or other networking system switch.

Networking device is a special purpose firmware device that performs the functions of modem and networking device . There can be examples where networking device can comprise a modem router device. In networking device is coupled to and in communication with one or more computing devices associated with LAN facilitates communication between the one or more computing devices associated with LAN and interfaces between LAN and internet by converting digital information produced by and received from the computing devices into analog signals for transmission across broadband lines to internet . As described above the router portion of networking device can serve as a connection between two or more packet switched networks and can look at the source and destination addresses of the packets passing through it to determine which route to send them.

In the present example execution environment comprises several performance management modules such as O S module watchdog module Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE re credential module channel bonding module channel hopping module routing table garbage collection module and memory clearing module . Although watchdog module is presented in as forming part of O S module there can be other embodiments where watchdog module is external and or otherwise coupled to O S module . There can be other embodiments that dispense with watchdog module where O S module directly monitors and or controls one or more of the modules of execution environment . In addition although in the present embodiment garbage collection module and memory clearing module can be handled via routing table handler in some examples one or more of garbage collection module and or memory clearing module may be also handled directly by O S module .

Execution environment can also be coupled to display to allow one or more modules and or applications running on execution system to communicate to a user. In the present example display is controlled via O S module . There can be examples however where watchdog module and or other modules of execution environment may communicate with display without using O S module as an intermediary. Execution environment may also include further elements and or performance management modules.

In the present example O S module can comprise any operating system that organizes and controls hardware and software such as for example Linux 2.6 kernel or some such other proprietary operating system. For example O S module may create unique processes in which to execute individual applications such as applications of watchdog module applications of PPPoE re credential module applications of channel bonding module applications of channel hopping module and or other applications such as a firewall application a quality of service QoS application and or routing applications for address allocation address management address translation functionality and the like. O S module may also create unique processes for the execution of individual applications handled by routing table handler such as for garbage collection module and or for memory clearing module .

Watchdog module may comprise a performance monitoring application and can serve as an application manager that evaluates performance content received from O S module and associated applications such as the aforementioned firewall application QoS application routing applications and the like. Watchdog module can call or otherwise enables applications and or modules if necessary based on the aforementioned evaluation by watchdog module . In the present example watchdog module is in communication with routing table handler as well as with PPPoE re credential module channel bonding module and channel hopping module . In some embodiments when necessary watchdog module can actuate one or more of PPPoE re credential module channel bonding module and or channel hopping module to perform each module s respective functionality to maintain and or improve router performance. In other embodiments when necessary watchdog module can call routing table handler to actuate one or more of garbage collection module and or memory clearing module to perform each module s respective functionality to improve router performance. In some examples such as in examples that dispense with watchdog module some of the performance monitoring duties and or applications of watchdog module can be carried out directly and or instead by O S module .

PPPoE re credential module can comprise an application based on a communications standard such one of the IEEE 802.11 standards. The application of PPPoE re credential module can enables users on an Ethernet network to virtually dial from one machine to another over the Ethernet network establish a point to point connection between them and then securely transport data packets over the connection. In some examples when the connection becomes corrupted PPPoE re credential module can be used to request a new set of credentials from a PPPOE server and or to re register the networking device of execution environment with the PPPoE server.

Channel bonding module can comprise an application based on a communications standard such as the IEEE 802.11n standard. In the present example channel bonding module permits an operational mode where two or more channels are bonded or concurrently used to transmit and or receive data packets. Such additional channel bandwidth can permit communications at faster data rates. For example networking device from can be configured by channel bonding module to communicate over a single 20 megahertz MHz channel and or to bond two 20 MHz channels together to approximate a 40 MHz data rate and or bandwidth. In some embodiments when the data rate of LAN falls below a preset threshold channel bonding module can be actuated to adjust the channel bonding mode for networking device .

Channel hopping module can comprise an application based on a communications standard such as the IEEE 802.11 n standard. In the example of FIG. channel hopping module of networking device can be configured to detect interference patterns associated with the current channel s that networking device is utilizing as well as other channels networking device is not utilizing. When the interference patterns reach a predetermined level channel hopping module can switch networking device away from the current channel s to one or more cleaner or less congested channels to reduce the interference pattern.

Routing table handler is configured to manage routing table . In the present example routing table can be configured to comprise information about other networking devices with which networking device communicates such as their respective IP addresses routes to such other networking devices metrics associated with such routes and the like. Although presents routing table as separate from memory module there can be embodiments where memory module comprises routing table . In the present example routing table handler can be configured to expose one or more application programming interfaces APIs associated with special purpose application s and or modules s to watchdog application thereby allowing access to the functionality of such special purpose application s or module s . Routing table handler is in communication with routing table garbage collection module and memory clearing module in the present embodiment.

Garbage collection module comprises a special purpose application for removing unused or unnecessary data from routing table in the present example. Such a functionality can be useful in response to a decrease in efficient functionality due to for example a lack of available entry space in routing table a lack of available memory other system resources and the like. In one embodiment specific data or entries can removed based on contents and circumstances of routing table . As an example the specific data can be removed based on the length of time the specific data has been residing in routing table the type of information comprised by the specific data the circumstances under which the specific data was written to routing table and the like. Additionally garbage collection module can clear registers associated with the routing table based on the contents and circumstances of routing table .

Memory clearing module can comprise a special purpose application for removing data from memory such as from memory module and or from routing table based on whether memory module and or routing table are approaching or have exceeded a maximum capacity. In some examples specific data can be removed by memory clearing module based on the content and circumstances of memory module and or of routing table . For instance the specific data can be removed based on the length of time that the specific data has been residing in memory module and or routing table the type of information comprised by the specific data the circumstances under which the specific data was stored and the like.

WAN status module can comprise an application and or hardware configured to monitor connectivity with internet and or WAN . In some examples WAN status module can be coupled to and or otherwise monitor an antenna of networking device .

Step of method comprises executing a boot up operation of the networking device. In some examples the networking device can be similar to networking device and or of and the boot up operation can comprise turning on networking the networking device such as after making all pertinent physical connections into LAN . In some examples step can comprise substeps such as substeps for actuating one or more of the performance management modules described above with respect to execution environment .

In some examples substep can comprise actuating a channel bonding module of the networking device. With respect to the example of the channel bonding module of step can be similar to channel bonding module in execution environment of networking device . Returning to in substep the channel bonding module can toggle the networking device between a single channel communications mode via a single channel and a bonded channel communications mode via a plurality of bonded channels for increased data rate and or bandwidth. Depending on specific circumstances of particular networking setups should the bonded channel communications mode prove unsatisfactory for a particular implementation the channel bonding module may toggle or keep the networking device in the single channel communications modes.

In some examples substep can comprise actuating a channel hopping module of the networking device. With respect to the example of the channel hopping module of step can be similar to channel hopping module in execution environment of networking device . Returning to in step the channel hopping module can switch the networking device from a first channel to a second channel having less interference or congestion than the first channel. For example the channel hopping module can determine a channel that is experiencing less interference than the channel currently in use by the networking device and may then switch the networking device to such channel with less interference.

There can be examples where only one of substeps is executed under step . There can also be examples where step is executed only if step proves unsatisfactory to establish a certain level of connectivity or communication for the networking device or vice versa. There can also be embodiments where further substeps for other performance management modules can be executed as part of step .

Method can continue with step for initializing the networking device. There can be examples where step need be executed only when needed such as when the networking device is first integrated into a LAN or WAN. In some examples initializing the networking device in step can comprise a setup operation of the networking device for communications with other components or elements of a network. As an example with respect to step can comprise initializing networking device to communicate with components of LAN such as modem and or computing devices and or to communicate with components of WAN such as internet and or LAN . In some examples the networking device and or modules thereof can be initialized at least in part via an external application such as remote management module in communication with O S module . For instance remote management module can be used to enable a user to set one or more parameters to control one or more of the performance management modules of execution environment . Remote management module can also comprise troubleshooting tools to assist a user in troubleshooting or setting up the networking device via one or more of the performance management modules described above for execution environment . In the same or other examples the networking device can be initialized in step automatically such as via an application of operating system module .

In the present example of step comprises substeps . Substep comprises actuating the channel bonding module of the networking device and can be similar to substep . Substep comprises actuating the channel hopping module of the networking device and can be similar to substep . There can be examples where only one of substeps is executed under step . There can also be examples where step is executed only if step proves unsatisfactory to establish a certain level of connectivity or communication for the networking device or vice versa. There can also be embodiments where further substeps for other performance management modules can be executed as part of step .

In some embodiments method can continue with step for enabling a performance review operation. There can be examples where the performance review operation can be carried out and or controlled by watchdog module and or by O S module . The performance review operation can be configured to evaluate performance or status information received from one or more modules such as software applications and or hardware elements of the networking device. For example with respect to the example of the performance review operation can monitor for one or more triggering events indicative of a performance degradation from one or more components or modules in execution environment of networking device . Upon receipt or identification of such triggering events the performance review operation can call or otherwise actuate performance management modules and or special purpose applications if necessary to address such performance degradation issues. There can be examples where the performance review operation can be executed continuously to iteratively scan for the one or more triggering events. The performance review operation may also be executed periodically and or upon request from a user.

In the present example of the performance review operation of step comprises substep for determining if an extended idle time threshold trigger is enabled for the networking device. With respect to the example of the extended idle time threshold trigger can be indicative of a situation where networking device is experiencing an extended idling time waiting for communication or feedback from other elements of the LAN and or WAN . In some examples the extended idle time threshold can be measured in seconds minutes or hours. Returning to if the extended idle time threshold trigger is enabled method can continue to substep . Otherwise method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

Substep comprises actuating the channel hopping module of the networking device. In some examples substep can be similar to substep as described above for step . There can also be embodiments where further substeps for other performance management modules can be executed when the extended idle time trigger is identified as enabled as part of substep . With respect to the example of substep can comprise an actuation of channel hopping module in the execution environment of networking device . Returning to upon completion of substep method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

In the present example the performance review operation of step comprises substep for determining if a client poor signal strength trigger is enabled for the networking device. With respect to the example of the client poor signal strength trigger can be indicative of a situation where the signal strength for one or more clients of networking device falls below a predetermined client signal strength value. In some examples the one or more clients of networking device may be elements coupled to WAN such as computing device . Returning to if the client poor signal strength trigger is enabled method can continue to substeps . Otherwise method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

Substeps comprise substeps as described below for the present example. Substep comprises actuating the channel bonding module of the networking device and can be similar to substep . Substep comprises checking the client poor signal strength trigger and can be carried out between substeps and . Substep comprises actuating the channel hopping module of the networking device and can be similar to substep . There can be other examples where substeps comprise only a portion of substeps . For example substeps may comprise only substep in some examples. There also can be other examples where substeps may be carried out in a different order. For example substep may be carried out before substep and substep may be carried out after substep . Substep may be omitted in other examples. In some examples one of substeps or need not be executed if a different one of substeps or is successful in disabling the client poor signal strength trigger by restoring the client signal strength. There can also be embodiments where further substeps for other performance management modules can be executed with respect to substeps . Upon completion of substeps method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

In the present example the performance review operation of step comprises substep for determining if an congested channel trigger is enabled for the networking device. With respect to the example of the congested channel trigger can be indicative of a situation where a communications channel being used by networking device is experiencing interference or congestion that degrades or impedes the ability of networking device to effectively communicate with other elements of LAN and or WAN . In one example the congested channel trigger can be enabled if an interference level of the communications channel exceeds a threshold number of network devices contesting the communications channel and or a noise level threshold indicative of a low signal to noise ratio for the communications channel. Returning to if the congested channel trigger is enabled method can continue to substeps . Otherwise method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

Substeps comprise substeps as described below for the present example. Substep comprises actuating the channel bonding module of the networking device and can be similar to substep . Substep comprises actuating the channel hopping module of the networking device and can be similar to substep . There can be examples where substeps comprise only a portion of substeps . For example substeps may comprise only substep or only substep in some examples. There also can be other examples where substeps may be carried out in a different order. For example substep may be carried out after substep . In some examples one of substeps or need not be executed if a different one of substeps or is successful in disabling the congested channel trigger. There can also be embodiments where further substeps for other performance management modules can be executed with respect to substep . Upon completion of substeps method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

In the present example the performance review operation of step comprises substep for determining if an internet connection status trigger is enabled for the networking device. With respect to the example of the internet connection status trigger can be indicative of a situation where networking device cannot communicate with internet via WAN . For example WAN status module can be configured to monitor connectivity with internet and to enable the internet connection status trigger is such connectivity is unavailable. Watchdog module and or O S module may be configured to monitor WAN status module and to react accordingly when internet connection status trigger is enabled. Returning to if the internet connection status trigger is enabled method can continue to substeps . Otherwise method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

Substeps comprise substeps as described below for the present example. Substep comprises actuating a PPPoE re credential module of the networking device such as PPPoE re credential module in execution environment for networking device . In substep PPPoE credentials can be re issued for the networking device. In some embodiments the PPPoE re credential module enables the networking device to re register and obtain a new set of credentials from a PPPoE server. The re registration process can comprise a PPPoE discovery and can involve one or more of an initiation step an offer step a request step and or a confirmation step. For the initiation step the PPPoE re credential module may send a PPPoE Active Discovery Initiation PADI packet to the PPPoe server to initiate the session. For the offer step the PPPoE server can respond with a PPPoE Active Discovery Offer PADO packet. For the request step the PPPoE re credential module can respond to the PADO packet by sending a PPPoE Active Discovery Request PADR packet to the PPPoE server. For the confirmation step after receipt of the PADR packet the PPPoE server can generate a unique ID for the PPP session and can send it in a PPPoE Active Discovery Session PADS confirmation packet to the PPPoE re credential module.

Substep comprises tickling the modem to which the networking device is coupled. With respect to networking device could tickle modem via PPPoE re credential module watchdog module or operating system to establish and or to determine if an acceptable connection is established between the modem and the router. Although step is shown in as being carried out after substep there can be embodiments where substep can be carried out before and or without regards to substep . Upon completion of substeps method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

In the present example the performance review operation of step comprises substep for determining if an a memory full trigger is enabled for the networking device. Operating a networking device at or near the limit of its memory may lead to a decrease in efficient functionality. With respect to the example of the memory full trigger can be indicative of a situation where memory module of networking device is filled such as to approach and or exceed a memory capacity threshold. If the memory full trigger is enabled method in can continue to substeps . Otherwise method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

Substeps comprise substeps and as described below for the present example. Substep comprises actuating a routing table garbage collection module of the networking device such as routing table garbage collection module in execution environment for networking device to determine dispensable routing table entries in routing table and or to flag such dispensable routing table entries as overwriteable. Substep comprises actuating a memory clearing module of the networking device such as memory clearing module in execution environment for networking device to determine dispensable memory portions or registers of memory module and or in routing table and or to flag the data in such dispensable memory portions as overwriteable. There can be examples where the dispensable memory portions can be determined based on a predetermined priority as established by the manufacturer for increasing the efficiency of the networking device.

In some examples one or more of substeps and or can be actuated by one or more of watchdog module operating system and or routing table handler . There can be examples where substeps comprise only a portion of substeps . For example substeps may comprise only substep or only substep in some examples. There also can be other examples where substeps may be carried out in a different order. For example substep may be carried out after substep . In some examples one of substeps or need not be executed if a different one of substeps or is successful in disabling the memory full trigger. There can also be embodiments where further substeps for other performance management modules can be executed with respect to substeps . Upon completion of substeps method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

In the present example the performance review operation of step comprises substep for determining if a routing table congestion trigger is enabled for the networking device. Operating a networking device at or near the limit of its routing table may lead to a decrease in efficient functionality. With respect to the example of the routing table congestion trigger can be indicative of a situation where routing table in execution environment of networking device is filled such as to approach and or exceed a routing table capacity threshold. If the routing table congestion trigger full trigger is enabled method in can continue to substep . Otherwise method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

Substep comprises actuating the routing table garbage collection module of the networking device such as routing table garbage collection module in execution environment for networking device to determine dispensable routing table entries in routing table and or to flag such dispensable routing table entries as overwriteable. In some examples substep can be actuated by one or more of watchdog module operating system and or routing table handler . There can also be embodiments where further substeps for other performance management modules can be executed with respect to substep . Upon completion of substeps method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

In the present example the performance review operation of step comprises substep for determining if a periodic trigger is enabled for the networking device. With respect to the example of the periodic trigger can be indicative of a situation where one or more or the performance management modules in execution environment of networking device are set to be actuated by O S module and or by watchdog module . As an example the periodic trigger can be set to be enabled upon the expiration of a predetermined amount of time such as every week or month and or at predetermined times such as every Tuesday at 3 30 a.m. If the periodic trigger is enabled method can continue to substeps . Otherwise method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

Substeps comprise substeps as described below for the present example. Substep comprises performing a soft reboot of the networking device. Substep comprises actuating the channel bonding module of the networking device and can be similar to substep . Substep comprises actuating the channel hopping module of the networking device and can be similar to substep . There can be examples where substeps comprise only a portion of substeps . For example substeps may comprise only one of substep or in some examples. There also can be other examples where substeps may be carried out in a different order. For example substep may be carried out before substep . There can also be embodiments where further substeps for other performance management modules can be executed with respect to substeps . Upon completion of substeps method can continue to other steps of the performance review operation such as substep .

In some examples some of the steps of method can be subdivided into one or more sub steps. In the same or other examples one or more of the different steps of method can be combined into a single step or performed simultaneously and or the sequence of such steps can be changed. For example substep may be combined or performed simultaneously with substep on some implementations. There can also be examples where method can comprise further or different steps. For example other steps may be added to monitor and or react to other triggering events by actuating one or more performance management modules of the networking device. In addition there may be examples where method can comprise only part of the steps described above. For example method may comprise only steps and or in some examples. There may also be cases where the performance review operation of step is configured to execute only some of substeps and or . In one example the performance review operation of step executes only substep . Furthermore some of the steps of method may be carried out in a different order. As an example any of substeps and or may be carried out before or after each other in some examples. Other variations can be implemented for method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Although the self healing networking device systems and related methods herein have been described with reference to specific embodiments various changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. Examples of such options and other embodiments have been given in the foregoing description.

For example although computing devices and are illustrated in as laptop computers there can be embodiments where computing devices and or may be other devices such as iPad devices desktop computers workstations and or servers. Accordingly the description is intended to be illustrative of the scope of the present disclosure and is not intended to be limiting. Other permutations of the different embodiments having one or more of the features of the various figures are likewise contemplated. It is intended that the scope described herein shall be limited only to the extent required by the appended claims.

The self healing networking device systems and related methods discussed herein may be implemented in a variety of embodiments and the foregoing discussion of these embodiments does not necessarily represent a complete description of all possible embodiments. Rather the detailed description of the drawings and the drawings themselves disclose at least one preferred embodiment and may disclose additional embodiments.

All elements claimed in any particular claim are essential to the self healing networking device systems and related methods claimed in that particular claim. Consequently replacement of one or more claimed elements constitutes reconstruction and not repair. Additionally benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described with regard to specific embodiments. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element or elements that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced however are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of any or all of the claims unless such benefit advantage solution or element is stated in such claims.

Moreover embodiments and limitations disclosed herein are not dedicated to the public under the doctrine of dedication if the embodiments and or limitations 1 are not expressly claimed in the claims and 2 are or are potentially equivalents of express elements and or limitations in the claims under the doctrine of equivalents.

