---

title: Compounds and methods for modulating activity of calcium release channels
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08933129&OS=08933129&RS=08933129
owner: State of Oregon by and through the State Board of Higher Education on behalf of Portland State University
number: 08933129
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100415
---
This application is a national phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2010 001152 filed on Apr. 15 2010 which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 169 426 filed on Apr. 15 2009 the entire disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein in its entirety their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. R01 AR 48911 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure relates generally to compounds and methods for modulating the activity of calcium ion channels including Ca induced or Ca activated calcium release channels and conformationally coupled calcium release channels such as ryanodine receptors in a subject.

The sarcoplasmic reticulum SR is a sub cellular organelle responsible for regulating the Ca concentration in the cytosol of muscle fibers. By hydrolysis of ATP the SR network lowers the free Ca concentration in the space surrounding the myofibrils to sub micromolar levels pumping Ca into the lumen of the SR. The reduction of myoplasmic free Ca concentration leads to muscle relaxation.

Muscle contraction is initiated by an action potential at the cell s surface membrane. This depolarization propagates down the transverse T tubules which in turn triggers the release of Ca stored in the SR and contraction. More particularly calcium release channels CRCs in the SR called ryanodine receptors RyRs open and release Ca from the SR into the intracellular cytoplasm of the cell. Release of Ca into the cytoplasm from the SR increases cytoplasmic Ca concentration. Open probability P of the RyR receptor refers to the likelihood that the RyR channel is open at any given moment and therefore capable of releasing Ca into the cytoplasm from the SR.

There are three types of ryanodine receptors all of which are highly related Ca channels RyR1 RyR2 and RyR3. RyR1 is found predominantly in skeletal muscle as well as other tissues while RyR2 is found predominantly in the heart as well as other tissues and RyR3 is found in the brain as well as other tissues. The RyR channels are formed by four RyR polypeptides in association with four FK506 binding proteins FKBPs specifically FKBP12 calstabin1 and FKBP12.6 calstabin2 . Calstabin1 binds to RyR1 calstabin2 binds to RyR2 and calstabin1 binds to RyR3. The FKBP proteins calstabin1 and calstabin2 bind to the RyR channel one molecule per RyR subunit stabilize RyR channel functioning and facilitate coupled gating between neighboring RyR channels thereby preventing abnormal activation of the channel during the channel s closed state.

Important advances have been made toward understanding the 3 dimensional structure of the ryanodine receptor RyR Ca release protein and the possible functional role of other junctional SR proteins in excitation contraction coupling ECC in skeletal muscle. ECC differs in skeletal and cardiac muscle. In skeletal muscle there appears to be a mechanical coupling between the dihydropyridine receptor DHPR found in the T tubule membrane and the CRC or RyR found at the terminal end of the SR. In cardiac muscle Ca enters the cell during the action potential through the DHPR and initiates Ca release from the SR via a mechanism known as Ca induced Ca release. See e.g. Meissner Ryanodine receptor Ca release channels and their regulation by endogenous effectors . 1994 56 485 508 Dulhunty et al. Ion channels in the sarcoplasmic reticulum of striated muscle . 1996 156 375 85 Halling et al. Regulation of voltage gated Ca channels by calmodulin . 2005 2005 re15 Coronado et al. Structure and function of ryanodine receptors Am. J. Physiol. 1994 266 C1485 C1504 and Dulhunty et al. Excitation contraction coupling from the 1950s into the new millennium . 2006 33 763 72.

A number of associated proteins regulate the activity of the SR ryanodine receptors. The DHPR and RyR appear to form a hub for a large macromolecular complex which includes triadin and calsequestrin on the luminal face of the SR FKBP12 skeletal muscle and FKBP12.6 cardiac muscle calmodulin Ca CaM kinase skeletal muscle and protein kinase A PKA cardiac muscle . Defective RyR FKBP12.6 association has been implicated in heart failure cardiomyopathy cardiac hypertrophy and exercise induced sudden cardiac death. It has been proposed that PKA phosphorylation of the cardiac RyR2 results in dissociation of FKBP12.6 from the Ca release channel which results in an increased channel open probability P increased sensitivity to activation by Ca and destabilization of the CRC. Alternatively it has been proposed that abnormal Ca handling by calsequestrin may lead to an increased Ca leak and cardiac arrhythmias. The cardio protective agent K201 also known as JTV519 and the antioxidant edaravone appear to correct the defective FKBP12.6 control of RyR2 and improve function. However the mechanism of action of K201 is controversial. One report has shown that K201 suppresses spontaneous Ca release in ventricular myocytes independent of the presence of the FKBP12.6 protein suggesting that the mode by which K201 decreases the Ca leak from cardiac SR does not involve the FKBP12.6 protein. See Hunt et al. K201 JTV519 suppresses spontaneous Ca release and 3H ryanodine binding to RyR2 irrespective of FKBP12.6 association . 2007 404 431 38.

In addition CRCs from both cardiac and skeletal muscle SR are rich in thiol groups and therefore are strongly regulated by thiol reagents. It has been shown that oxidation of these thiol groups results in increased Ca release rates from SR vesicles increased open probability of the reconstituted CRC and increased high infinity ryanodine binding to the SR while reduction of the disulfide s formed results in decreased activity. There are also a large number of non thiol reagents known to either activate or inhibit RyR1 and or RyR2. Among those compounds that activate the RyR CRC are methylxanthines such as caffeine plant alkaloids such as ryanodine polyamines such as polylysine quinone such as doxorubicin and phenols such as 4 chloro m cresol 4 CmC . Among the non thiol RyR CRC inhibitors are local anesthetics such as tetracaine and procaine the poly unsaturated fatty acids such as docosahexaenoic acid DHA . However these reagents are physiologically and pharmacologically diverse and their exact mode of action is not clear. Accordingly the art desires better understanding of calcium release mechanisms for developing a broader class of RyR CRC activators and inhibitors.

In light of the foregoing it is an object of the present teachings to provide novel compounds and or methods for regulating or modulating the activity of calcium release channels such as ryanodine receptors in cells of a subject e.g. mammals preferably humans thereby overcoming various deficiencies and shortcomings of the prior art including those outlined above.

It can be an object of the present teachings to provide novel compounds and or methods for inhibiting or decreasing intracellular calcium release including calcium release in muscle cells e.g. from sarcoplasmic reticulum in skeletal or cardiac muscle cells . These compounds and or methods can include down regulating or inhibiting the activity of calcium release channels such as ryanodine receptors.

It can be an object of the present teachings to provide compounds and or methods for changing the redox potential of reactive thiols on ryanodine receptors in cells of a subject. Such redox potential changes can be achieved by modifying the thiol disulfide balance within ryanodine receptors in cells of a subject particularly mammalian cells.

It can be an object of the present teachings to provide compounds and or methods for treating or reducing the risk of a ryanodine receptor RyR associated disease disorder or condition in a subject. The RyR associated disorder disease or condition can be a cardiac or skeletal muscle condition disorder or disease.

The present teachings also provide methods of making the compounds of formulae I and II and methods of treating RyR associated conditions disorders and diseases comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or II to a subject in need thereof. In addition the present teachings relate to methods of reducing the open probability of a ryanodine receptor and methods of reducing Ca release across a ryanodine receptor e.g. into the cytoplasm of a cell either of which can include contacting a compound of formula I or II with a ryanodine receptor.

The foregoing as well as other features and advantages of the present teachings will be more fully understood from the following figures description examples and claims.

Throughout the application where compositions are described as having including or comprising specific components or where processes are described as having including or comprising specific process steps it is contemplated that compositions of the present teachings also consist essentially of or consist of the recited components and that the processes of the present teachings also consist essentially of or consist of the recited process steps.

In the application where an element or component is said to be included in and or selected from a list of recited elements or components it should be understood that the element or component can be any one of the recited elements or components or the element or component can be selected from a group consisting of two or more of the recited elements or components. Further it should be understood that elements and or features of a composition an apparatus or a method described herein can be combined in a variety of ways without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings whether explicit or implicit herein.

The use of the terms include includes including have has or having should be generally understood as open ended and non limiting unless specifically stated otherwise.

The use of the singular herein includes the plural and vice versa unless specifically stated otherwise. In addition where the use of the term about is before a quantitative value the present teachings also include the specific quantitative value itself unless specifically stated otherwise. As used herein the term about or the symbol refers to a 10 variation from the nominal value unless otherwise indicated or inferred.

It should be understood that the order of steps or order for performing certain actions is immaterial so long as the present teachings remain operable. Moreover two or more steps or actions may be conducted simultaneously.

As used herein a compound refers to the compound itself and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts hydrates complexes esters prodrugs and or salts of prodrugs unless otherwise understood from the context of the description or expressly limited to one particular form of the compound i.e. the compound itself or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate complex ester prodrug or salt of prodrug thereof.

As used herein alkyl refers to a straight chain or branched saturated hydrocarbon group. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl Me ethyl Et propyl e.g. n propyl and iso propyl butyl e.g. n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl groups e.g. n pentyl iso pentyl neopentyl hexyl groups and the like. In various embodiments an alkyl group can have 1 to 40 carbon atoms i.e. Calkyl group for example 1 20 carbon atoms i.e. Calkyl group . In some embodiments an alkyl group can have 1 to 6 carbon atoms and can be referred to as a lower alkyl group. Examples of lower alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl e.g. n propyl and iso propyl and butyl groups e.g. n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl . In some embodiments alkyl groups can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein alkoxy refers to O alkyl group. Examples of alkoxy groups include methoxy ethoxy propoxy e.g. n propoxy and isopropoxy t butoxy pentoxyl hexoxyl groups and the like.

As used herein alkylthio refers to an S alkyl group which in some cases can be expressed as S O alkyl wherein w is 0 . Examples of alkylthio groups include methylthio ethylthio propylthio e.g. n propylthio and isopropylthio t butylthio pentylthio hexylthio groups and the like.

As used herein cycloalkyl refers to a non aromatic carbocyclic group including cyclized alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups. In various embodiments a cycloalkyl group can have 3 to 24 carbon atoms for example 3 to 20 carbon atoms e.g. Ccycloalkyl group . A cycloalkyl group can be monocyclic e.g. cyclohexyl or polycyclic e.g. containing fused bridged and or spiro ring systems where the carbon atoms are located inside or outside of the ring system. Any suitable ring position of the cycloalkyl group can be covalently linked to the defined chemical structure. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptatrienyl norbornyl norpinyl norcaryl adamantyl and spiro 4.5 decanyl groups as well as their homologs isomers and the like. In some embodiments cycloalkyl groups can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein heteroatom refers to an atom of any element other than carbon or hydrogen and includes for example nitrogen oxygen silicon sulfur phosphorus and selenium.

As used herein cycloheteroalkyl refers to a non aromatic cycloalkyl group that contains at least one ring heteroatom selected from O S Se N P and Si e.g. O S and N and optionally contains one or more double or triple bonds. A cycloheteroalkyl group can have 3 to 24 ring atoms for example 3 to 20 ring atoms e.g. 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group . One or more N P S or Se atoms e.g. N or S in a cycloheteroalkyl ring may be oxidized e.g. morpholine N oxide thiomorpholine S oxide thiomorpholine S S dioxide . In some embodiments nitrogen or phosphorus atoms of cycloheteroalkyl groups can bear a substituent for example a hydrogen atom an alkyl group or other substituents as described herein. Cycloheteroalkyl groups can also contain one or more oxo groups such as oxopiperidyl oxooxazolidyl dioxo 1H 3H pyrimidyl oxo 2 1H pyridyl and the like. Examples of cycloheteroalkyl groups include among others morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl pyranyl imidazolidinyl imidazolinyl oxazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and the like. In some embodiments cycloheteroalkyl groups can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein aryl refers to an aromatic monocyclic hydrocarbon ring system or a polycyclic ring system in which two or more aromatic hydrocarbon rings are fused i.e. having a bond in common with together or at least one aromatic monocyclic hydrocarbon ring is fused to one or more cycloalkyl and or cycloheteroalkyl rings. An aryl group can have 6 to 24 carbon atoms in its ring system e.g. Caryl group which can include multiple fused rings. In some embodiments a polycyclic aryl group can have 8 to 24 carbon atoms. Any suitable ring position of the aryl group can be covalently linked to the defined chemical structure. Examples of aryl groups having only aromatic carbocyclic ring s include phenyl 1 naphthyl bicyclic 2 naphthyl bicyclic anthracenyl tricyclic phenanthrenyl tricyclic pentacenyl pentacyclic and like groups. Examples of polycyclic ring systems in which at least one aromatic carbocyclic ring is fused to one or more cycloalkyl and or cycloheteroalkyl rings include among others benzo derivatives of cyclopentane i.e. an indanyl group which is a 5 6 bicyclic cycloalkyl aromatic ring system cyclohexane i.e. a tetrahydronaphthyl group which is a 6 6 bicyclic cycloalkyl aromatic ring system imidazoline i.e. a benzimidazolinyl group which is a 5 6 bicyclic cycloheteroalkyl aromatic ring system and pyran i.e. a chromenyl group which is a 6 6 bicyclic cycloheteroalkyl aromatic ring system . Other examples of aryl groups include benzodioxanyl benzodioxolyl chromanyl indolinyl groups and the like. In some embodiments aryl groups can be substituted as described herein. In some embodiments an aryl group can have one or more halogen substituents and can be referred to as a haloaryl group. Perhaloaryl groups i.e. aryl groups where all of the hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen atoms e.g. CF are included within the definition of haloaryl. In certain embodiments an aryl group is substituted with another aryl group and can be referred to as a biaryl group. Each of the aryl groups in the biaryl group can be substituted as disclosed herein.

As used herein heteroaryl refers to an aromatic monocyclic ring system containing at least one ring heteroatom selected from oxygen O nitrogen N sulfur S silicon Si and selenium Se or a polycyclic ring system where at least one of the rings present in the ring system is aromatic and contains at least one ring heteroatom. Polycyclic heteroaryl groups include those having two or more heteroaryl rings fused together as well as those having at least one monocyclic heteroaryl ring fused to one or more aromatic carbocyclic rings non aromatic carbocyclic rings and or non aromatic cycloheteroalkyl rings. A heteroaryl group as a whole can have for example 5 to 24 ring atoms and contain 1 5 ring heteroatoms i.e. 5 20 membered heteroaryl group . The heteroaryl group can be attached to the defined chemical structure at any heteroatom or carbon atom that results in a stable structure. Generally heteroaryl rings do not contain O O S S or S O bonds. However one or more N or S atoms in a heteroaryl group can be oxidized e.g. pyridine N oxide thiophene S oxide thiophene S S dioxide . Examples of heteroaryl groups include for example the 5 or 6 membered monocyclic and 5 6 bicyclic ring systems shown below 

Compounds of the present teachings can include a divalent group defined herein as a linking group capable of forming a covalent bond with two other moieties. For example compounds of the present teachings can include a divalent Calkyl group e.g. a methylene group a divalent Calkenyl group e.g. a vinylyl group a divalent Calkynyl group e.g. an ethynylyl group . a divalent Caryl group e.g. a phenylyl group a divalent 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group e.g. a pyrrolidylyl and or a divalent 5 14 membered heteroaryl group e.g. a thienylyl group . Generally a chemical group e.g. Ar is understood to be divalent by the inclusion of the two bonds before and after the group.

The electron donating or electron withdrawing properties of several hundred of the most common substituents reflecting all common classes of substituents have been determined quantified and published. The most common quantification of electron donating and electron withdrawing properties is in terms of Hammett values. Hydrogen has a Hammett value of zero while other substituents have Hammett values that increase positively or negatively in direct relation to their electron withdrawing or electron donating characteristics. Substituents with negative Hammett values are considered electron donating while those with positive Hammett values are considered electron withdrawing. See Lange s Handbook of Chemistry 12th ed. McGraw Hill 1979 Table 3 12 pp. 3 134 to 3 138 which lists Hammett values for a large number of commonly encountered substituents and is incorporated by reference herein.

It should be understood that the term electron accepting group can be used synonymously herein with electron acceptor and electron withdrawing group . In particular an electron withdrawing group EWG or an electron accepting group or an electron acceptor refers to a functional group that is electrophilic and draws electrons to itself more than a hydrogen atom would if it occupied the same position in a molecule. Electron withdrawing groups can be conjugated or not conjugated with the core molecule. Examples of electron withdrawing groups include NO CN NC halogen or halo e.g. F Cl Br I S R N R SOH SOR SOR SONHR SON R COOH COR COOR CONHR CON R Chaloalkyl groups Caryl groups and 5 14 membered electron poor heteroaryl groups where Ris a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group a Calkynyl group a Chaloalkyl group a Calkoxy group a Caryl group a Ccycloalkyl group a 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group and a 5 14 membered heteroaryl group each of which can be optionally substituted as described herein. For example each of the Calkyl group the Calkenyl group the Calkynyl group the Chaloalkyl group the Calkoxy group the Caryl group the Ccycloalkyl group the 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group and the 5 14 membered heteroaryl group can be optionally substituted with 1 5 small electron withdrawing groups such as F Cl Br NO CN NC S R N R SOH SOR SOR SONHR SON R COOH COR COOR CONHR and CON R .

It should be understood that the term electron donating group can be used synonymously herein with electron donor . In particular an electron donating group or an electron donor refers to a functional group that donates electrons to a neighboring atom more than a hydrogen atom would if it occupied the same position in a molecule. Examples of electron donating groups include chalcogen containing groups such as OH OR SH SR and selenides where Ris as defined above. Other electron donating groups include nitrogen containing groups such as optionally substituted amino groups NH NHR N R and hydrazines and 5 14 membered electron rich heteroaryl groups. Other examples of electron donating groups include electropositive groups which may work through non resonance effects. Examples of such electropositive groups include silyl groups. Still additional examples of electron donating groups include saturated and unsaturated groups such as alkyl groups alkenyl groups aryl groups and alkynyl groups which can increase electron donating properties via both resonance and non resonance effects and which can be optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR N R and 5 14 membered electron rich heteroaryl groups where Ris as defined above.

Various unsubstituted heteroaryl groups can be described as electron rich or excessive or electron poor or deficient . Such classification is based on the average electron density on each ring atom as compared to that of a carbon atom in benzene. Examples of electron rich systems include 5 membered heteroaryl groups having one heteroatom such as furan pyrrole and thiophene and their benzofused counterparts such as benzofuran benzopyrrole and benzothiophene. Examples of electron poor systems include 6 membered heteroaryl groups having one or more heteroatoms such as pyridine pyrazine pyridazine and pyrimidine as well as their benzofused counterparts such as quinoline isoquinoline quinoxaline cinnoline phthalazine naphthyridine quinazoline phenanthridine acridine and purine. Mixed heteroaromatic rings can belong to either class depending on the type number and position of the one or more heteroatom s in the ring. See Katritzky A. R and Lagowski J. M. John Wiley Sons New York 1960 .

At various places in the present specification substituents are disclosed in groups or in ranges. It is specifically intended that the description include each and every individual subcombination of the members of such groups and ranges. For example the term Calkyl is specifically intended to individually disclose C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C and C Calkyl. By way of other examples an integer in the range of 0 to 40 is specifically intended to individually disclose 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 and 40 and an integer in the range of 1 to 20 is specifically intended to individually disclose 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 and 20. Additional examples include that the phrase optionally substituted with 1 5 substituents is specifically intended to individually disclose a chemical group that can include 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 5 0 4 0 3 0 2 0 1 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2 2 5 2 4 2 3 3 5 3 4 and 4 5 substituents.

Compounds described herein can contain an asymmetric atom also referred as a chiral center and some of the compounds can contain two or more asymmetric atoms or centers which can thus give rise to optical isomers enantiomers and diastereomers geometric isomers . The present teachings include such optical isomers and diastereomers including their respective resolved enantiomerically or diastereomerically pure isomers e.g. or stereoisomer and their racemic mixtures as well as other mixtures of the enantiomers and diastereomers. In some embodiments optical isomers can be obtained in enantiomerically enriched or pure form by standard procedures known to those skilled in the art which include for example chiral separation diastereomeric salt formation kinetic resolution and asymmetric synthesis. For example when a compound of the present teachings is a racemate the racemate can be separated into the S compound and R compound by optical resolution. The present teachings also encompass cis and trans isomers of compounds containing alkenyl moieties e.g. alkenes azo and imines . It also should be understood that the compounds of the present teachings encompass all possible regioisomers in pure form and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the preparation of the present compounds can include separating such isomers using standard separation procedures known to those skilled in the art for example by using one or more of column chromatography thin layer chromatography simulated moving bed chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography. However mixtures of regioisomers can be used similarly to the uses of each individual regioisomer of the present teachings as described herein and or known by a skilled artisan.

It is specifically contemplated that the depiction of one regioisomer includes any other regioisomers and any regioisomeric mixtures unless specifically stated otherwise.

As used herein a leaving group LG refers to a charged or uncharged atom or group of atoms that can be displaced as a stable species as a result of for example a substitution or elimination reaction. Examples of leaving groups include halogen e.g. Cl Br I azide N thiocyanate SCN nitro NO cyanate CN water HO ammonia NH and sulfonate groups e.g. OSO R wherein R can be a Calkyl group or a Caryl group each optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from a Calkyl group and an electron withdrawing group such as tosylate toluenesulfonate OTs mesylate methanesulfonate OMs brosylate p bromobenzenesulfonate OBs nosylate 4 nitrobenzenesulfonate ONs and triflate trifluoromethanesulfonate OTf .

Throughout the specification structures may or may not be presented with chemical names. Where any question arises as to nomenclature the structure prevails.

In one aspect the present teachings provide derivatives of K201 also known as JTV519 a cardio protective agent that has the formula 

In various embodiments the electron donating group can be selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and a Calkyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are identical or different Calkyl groups. In some embodiments the electron donating group can be selected from OH OR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are identical or different Calkyl groups. For example Rand R independently can be selected from a methyl group an ethyl group an n propyl group an iso propyl group an n butyl group an iso butyl group a sec butyl group a tert butyl group an n pentyl group an iso pentyl group and an neopentyl group.

In some embodiments Rcan be OCH and R R R R and R independently can be selected from H and an electron donating group provided that at least one of R R R R and R is not H. That is in embodiments where Ris OCH at least one of R R R R and R is an electron donating group for example an electron donating group selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and a Calkyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are identical or different Calkyl groups. In certain embodiments where Ris OCH at least one of Rand Rcan be an alkoxy group e.g. OCH and each of R R and R can be H. In other embodiments where Ris OCHand at least one of Rand Ris an alkoxy group at least one of R R and R can be an electron donating group as described herein.

In some embodiments Rcan be an electron donating group selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and a Calkyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are identical or different Calkyl groups. In some of these embodiments each of R R R R and R can be H. In other embodiments where Ris an electron donating group at least one of R R R R and R also can be an electron donating group for example an electron donating group selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and a Calkyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are identical or different Calkyl groups. In certain embodiments where Ris an electron donating group at least one of R R R and R independently can be selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and a Calkyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are identical or different Calkyl groups and Rcan be H or an electron donating group other than OCH.

In some embodiments both Rand Rcan be OCH and each of R R R and R independently can be selected from H and an electron donating group. In certain embodiments R R R and R independently can be selected from H OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and a Calkyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are identical or different Calkyl groups. In particular embodiments at least one of R R R and R is not H and can be selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are as defined herein.

In some embodiments at least one of Rand R can be an electron donating group. For example at least one of Rand R can be selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and a Calkyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are identical or different Calkyl groups. In some of these embodiments each of R R R and R can be H. In other embodiments where at least one of Rand R is an electron donating group at least one of R R R and R can be selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and a Calkyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are as defined herein.

In embodiments where each of Rand R is an electron donating group Rand R can be substituted at meta ortho or para positions relative to each other. That is the present compounds can have a formula selected from 

In other embodiments represented by any one of formulae 1 6 one of Rand R can be H while the other of Rand R can be an electron donating group for example an electron donating group selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and a Calkyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are identical or different Calkyl groups. Accordingly the present compounds can have a formula selected from 

In some embodiments Rand R together with the two adjacent carbon atoms to which they are respectively bonded can form a 5 membered cycloheteroalkyl or heteroaryl group which is fused to the phenyl group thus providing an electron rich benzofused moiety. For example the 5 membered cycloheteroalkyl or heteroaryl group can be selected from 

It should be understood that the present teachings can exclude certain embodiments of compounds having the formula 

In another aspect the present teachings relate to derivatives of 4 chloro m cresol 4 CmC a known activator of ryanodine receptors. More specifically such derivatives can include one or more electron donating groups in place of the chloro group the methyl group and or one or more hydrogen atoms on the phenol. Applicants have found that by replacing the electron withdrawing chloro group with an electron donating group the derivative can act as an inhibitor instead of an activator of ryanodine receptors.

In certain embodiments X can be selected from OH OR SH SR NH NHR and NRR where Rand R are as defined herein. In particular embodiments X can be an alkoxy group. In particular embodiments X can be NH NHR or NRR where Rand R are methyl groups. For example the present teachings provide the compound

Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory compounds of the present teachings are believed to be able to inhibit activity of CRC because of their enhanced electron donating properties. As electron donors the present compounds are believed to shift the redox potential of reactive thiols on the RyR CRC to more positive values and or increase the number of reactive thiols on the RyR CRC. It is further believed that these compounds can transiently exchange electrons with the Ca release protein and shift the thiol disulfide balance within CRC.

More specifically it has been demonstrated that there exists a class of hyperreactive thiols on RyR1 which are exposed when the Ca release channel is in the closed configuration. For example using 7 diethylamino 3 4 maleimidyl phenyl 4 methylcoumarin CPM which fluoresces when it reacts with thiols it has been found that the rate of CPM fluorescence increases 10 fold in the closed configuration of the CRC. It has been recently identified that there are seven hyperreactive thiols per monomeric receptor unit one of which cys 3635 had previously been identified as the binding site for NO and calmodulin. It also has been shown that these hyperreactive thiols have a well defined redox potential which is sensitive to the open versus closed state of the CRC and which can be determined by measuring the rate of ryanodine binding as a function of the redox potential of the solution in which the assay is being carried out.

Accordingly the effect of the present compounds as channel inhibitors can be directly observed as a shift in the redox potential of reactive thiols associated with the RyR. To illustrate shows the rate of ryanodine binding plotted versus the redox potential mV of a tested compound control caffeine and tetracaine in solution which is defined as E 240 2.3 RT nF log GSSG GSH where R is the gas constant T is the temperature in K n is the number of electrons transferred n 2 F is the Faraday. A more positive solution potential is more oxidizing while a more negative solution potential is more reducing. The redox potential of these reactive thiols is defined as the potential at which half of the thiols are oxidized and half are reduced the midpoint of the redox titration. In a control experiment carried out with 20 M Ca the redox potential 160.3 3.2 mV. When caffeine 2 mM a known channel activator and an electron acceptor was added the redox potential of the reactive thiols shifted to 197.8 5.8 mV a more negative redox potential which favors the oxidation of these thiols. In contrast when tetracaine 25 M a known channel inhibitor and an electron donor was added the redox potential of these thiols shifted to a more positive value 147.7 2.8 mV which favors the reduced state of these thiols. The shift in the redox potential of these thiols to a more reduced state by tetracaine is also evident from measurements of the total number of accessible thiols on the ryanodine receptor. In experiments where RyR1 receptors were isolated and the total number of thiols were measured using the CPM fluorescence technique described above 47 thiols per monomeric receptor were measured in control untreated receptors. This is in good agreement with measurements reported in Sun et al. Classes of thiols that influence the activity of the skeletal muscle calcium release channel . 2001 276 15625 15630. When caffeine was added the number of thiols decreased to 20 at 1 mM caffeine presumably caused by oxidation of thiols to the disulfide form. In contrast when tetracaine was added the number of thiols increased to 70 per monomer at 10 mM tetracaine. See Marinov et al. Non thiol reagents regulate ryanodine receptor function by redox interactions that modify reactive thiols . 2007 9 609 621. As such observations of a shift in the redox potential of reactive thiols on the RyR CRC to more positive values and or observations of an increase in the number of reactive thiols when RyRs are contacted with the present compounds would collaborate that the present compounds are donating electrons to the RyR channels and as a result inhibiting RyR channel activity.

The shift in the redox potential of reactive thiols to a more reduced state by tetracaine is also evident from measurements of the total number of accessible thiols on the ryanodine receptor . In these experiments Example 6 RyR1 was isolated and the total number of thiols that react with the fluorescent maleimide CPM 10 M was measured under various conditions. In the control untreated receptor 47 thiols were measured per monomeric receptor which is in good agreement with previous measurements J. Sun L. Xu J. P. Eu J. S. Stamler and G. Meissner . J Biol Chem 276 15625 15630 2001 . When the electron acceptor caffeine 1 mM was added the number of accessible thiols decreased to 20 presumably caused by oxidation of thiols to the disulfide form. In contrast when the electron donor tetracaine 10 mM was added the number of thiols increased to 70 per monomer. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory this appears to be caused by reduction of endogenous disulfides to the SH form and suggests that a large number of thiols are oxidized during activation of the CRC by caffeine. However in the range of tetracaine concentrations that inhibits ryanodine binding and single channel activity 0.1 to 0.5 mM a relatively small number of additional thiols were measured by the fluorescent maleimide CPM. Although conformational changes may occur during exposure to tetracaine and or caffeine it is unlikely that the large changes in the number of thiols shown in were caused by conformational changes. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory it is believed that tetracaine is transiently reducing protein disulfides to thiols while caffeine is oxidizing thiols to disulfides. It should be emphasized that the shift in the redox potential and the SH S S balance are reversible.

The mechanisms proposed above by which the present compounds may inhibit CRC activity are not intended to be limiting and the present compounds can achieve inhibition of CRC activity via other physical chemical and or biological reactions including those described hereinbelow.

The efficacy of the present compounds to inhibit the activity of Ca release channels has been demonstrated by measuring the single channel activity of the CRC using procedures described in Example 4 and observing a decrease in the open probability of RyRs.

The inhibitory effects of compounds of Formula II on Ca release channels is demonstrated by which show that 4 methoxy 3 methylphenol or 4 MmC can significantly decrease the open probability P of skeletal muscle CRCs including caffeine activated skeletal muscle CRCs. Significant decrease in the open probability P of a single skeletal muscle CRC has been observed with a concentration of 4 MmC as low as 2 M. These data show that by changing the 4 chloro group of 4 chloro 3 methylphenol 4 CmC into a 4 methoxy group the known CRC activator 4 CmC can be converted into an inhibitor of CRC activity.

The reduction in Pobserved when a CRC is contacted with the present compounds suggests that the present compounds can be administered to limit prevent or treat intracellular Ca leak in a subject. Intracellular Ca leak and destabilization of the closed state of CRCs are known to be manifestations of a variety of skeletal and cardiac muscle conditions disorders and diseases. Accordingly administration of the present compounds to a subject can be used to treat or reduce the risk of one or more of these conditions disorders and diseases in the subject.

For example in heart failure reduced myocardial contractility is observed. These contractile abnormalities result in part from alterations in the signaling pathway that allows the cardiac action potential to trigger Ca release via RyR2 channels and muscle contraction. In particular in failing hearts the amplitude of the whole cell Ca transient is decreased and the duration prolonged.

Cardiac arrhythmia is a common feature of heart failure. In humans atrial fibrillation AF is the most common cardiac arrhythmia. Structural and electrical remodeling including shortening of atrial refractoriness loss of rate related adaptation of refractoriness and shortening of the wavelength of re entrant wavelets can accompany sustained tachycardia. This remodeling is likely important in the development maintenance and progression of atrial fibrillation. Studies suggest that calcium handling plays a role in electrical remodeling in atrial fibrillation.

While many victims of fatal ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death SCD are often otherwise healthy individuals catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia CPVT is an inherited disorder in individuals with structurally normal hearts. It is characterized by stress induced ventricular tachycardia a lethal arrhythmia that causes SCD. In subjects with CPVT physical exertion and or stress induce bidirectional and or polymorphic ventricular tachycardias that lead to SCD even in the absence of detectable structural heart disease. CPVT is predominantly inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. Individuals with CPVT have ventricular arrhythmias when subjected to exercise but do not develop arrhythmias at rest. Studies have identified mutations in the human RyR2 gene on chromosome 1q42 q43 in individuals with CPVT.

Failing hearts e.g. in patients with heart failure and in animal models of heart failure are characterized by a maladaptive response that includes chronic hyperadrenergic stimulation. In heart failure chronic beta adrenergic stimulation is associated with the activation of beta adrenergic receptors in the heart which through coupling with G proteins activate adenylyl cyclase and thereby increase intracellular cAMP concentration. cAMP activates cAMP dependent PKA which has been shown to induce hyperphosphorylation of RyR2. Thus chronic heart failure is a chronic hyperadrenergic state which results in several pathologic consequences including PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2.

The PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 has been proposed as a factor contributing to depressed contractile function and arrhythmogenesis in heart failure. Consistent with this hypothesis PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 in failing hearts has been demonstrated in vivo both in animal models and in patients with heart failure undergoing cardiac transplantation.

In failing hearts the hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 by PKA induces the dissociation of FKBP12.6 calstabin2 from the RyR2 channel. This causes marked changes in the biophysical properties of the RyR2 channel including increased open probability Po due to an increased sensitivity to Ca dependent activation destabilization of the channel resulting in subconductance states and impaired coupled gating of the channels resulting in defective EC coupling and cardiac dysfunction. Thus PKA hyperphosphorylated RyR2 is very sensitive to low level Ca stimulation and this manifests itself as a diastolic SR Ca leak through the PKA hyperphosphorylated RyR2 channel.

The maladaptive response to stress in heart failure results in depletion of FKBP12.6 from the channel macromolecular complex. This leads to a shift to the left in the sensitivity of RyR2 to Ca induced Ca release resulting in channels that are more active at low to moderate Ca concentrations. Over time the increased leak through RyR2 results in resetting of the SR Ca content to a lower level which in turn reduces EC coupling gain and contributes to impaired systolic contractility.

Additionally a subpopulation of RyR2 that are particularly leaky can release SR Ca during the resting phase of the cardiac cycle diastole. This leads to depolarizations of the cardiomyocyte membrane known as delayed afterdepolarizations DADs which are known to trigger fatal ventricular cardiac arrhythmias.

In patients with CPVT mutations in their RyR2 and otherwise structurally normal hearts a similar phenomenon is at work. Specifically it is known that exercise and stress induce the release of catecholamines that activate beta adrenergic receptors in the heart. Activation of the beta adrenergic receptors leads to PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 channels. Evidence also suggests that the PKA hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 resulting from beta adrenergic receptor activation renders mutated RyR2 channels more likely to open in the relaxation phase of the cardiac cycle increasing the likelihood of arrhythmias.

Cardiac arrhythmias are known to be associated with diastolic SR Ca leaks in patients with CPVT mutations in their RyR2 and otherwise structurally normal hearts. In these cases the most common mechanism for induction and maintenance of ventricular tachycardia is abnormal automaticity. One form of abnormal automaticity known as triggered arrhythmia is associated with aberrant release of SR Ca which initiates DADs. As described above DADs are abnormal depolarizations in cardiomyocytes that occur after repolarization of a cardiac action potential. The molecular basis for the abnormal SR Ca release that results in DADs has not been fully elucidated. However DADs are known to be blocked by ryanodine providing evidence that RyR2 plays a key role in the pathogenesis of this aberrant Ca release.

Accordingly RyR2 has been identified as a target for treating and preventing heart failure and cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation and cardiac arrhythmias that cause exercise induced SCD. RyR2 channels with 7 different CPVT mutations e.g. S2246L R2474S N4104K R4497C P2328S Q4201R V4653F were found to have functional defects that resulted in channels that became leaky i.e. a calcium leak when stimulated during exercise. The mechanism for the ventricular tachycardia VT in CPVT has been demonstrated to be the same as the mechanism for VT in heart failure.

It has been shown that exercise induced arrhythmias and sudden death in patients with CPVT result from a reduced affinity of FKBP 12.6 calstabin2 for RyR2. Additionally it has been demonstrated that exercise activates RyR2 as a result of phosphorylation by adenosine 3 5 monophosphate cAMP dependent protein kinase PKA . Mutant RyR2 channels which had normal function in planar lipid bilayers under basal conditions were more sensitive to activation by PKA phosphorylation exhibiting increased activity open probability and prolonged open states as compared with wild type channels. In addition PKA phosphorylated mutant RyR2 channels were resistant to inhibition by Mg a physiological inhibitor of the channel and showed reduced binding to FKBP12.6 aka calstabin2 which stabilizes the channel in the closed state . These findings indicate that during exercise when the RyR2 are PKA phosphorylated the mutant CPVT channels are more likely to open in the relaxation phase of the cardiac cycle diastole increasing the likelihood of arrhythmias triggered by SR Ca leak.

Another major public health problem is the induction of often lethal arrhythmias triggered through a wide variety of drugs such as anti histamines antibiotics psychiatric and cardiac drugs. Most of these pro arrhythmic drugs inhibit the rapid component of the delayed rectifying K current IKwhich is a major current responsible for the repolarization of the mammalian including human cardiac action potential AP . The loss of function or reductions of IKresult in the prolongation of the AP and of the QT interval in the EKG and produces the cardiac phenotype called the long QT syndrome type 2 LQT2 . The general consensus is that the AP prolongation in LQT2 leads to the firing of early afterdepolarizations EADs that progress to a form of polymorphic ventricular tachyarrhythmia called Torsade de Pointes TdP . Although there is some controversy regarding the mechanisms that generate EADs the dominant theory is that APD prolongation leads to Ca overload in the sarcoplasmic reticulum SR because Ca influx does not match Ca efflux. SR Ca overload leads to spontaneous SR Ca release an enhanced Na Ca exchange current INCX which causes abrupt depolarization of the membrane potential during the plateau phase which triggers the re activation of L type Ca channels. Intracellular Ca oscillations precede EADs which lead to salvos of EADs and TdP. HERG poses a major challenge in terms of Safety Pharmacology because it is promiscuous and interacts readily with established and new drugs requiring extensive investigation to evaluate safety.

In vivo data obtained with electron donating derivatives of K201 according to the present teachings have shown that the present derivatives can reverse arrhythmias induced by pro arrhythmic drugs including IKinhibitors.

Accordingly the present teachings include use of the compounds disclosed herein as active therapeutic substances for the treatment of one or more conditions disorders and or diseases which involve modulation of the RyR receptors particularly the RyR1 and RyR2 receptors. As used herein a ryanodine receptor RyR associated condition disorder or disease refers to a condition disorder or disease that can be treated and or prevented by modulating the RyR receptors that regulate calcium channel functioning in cells. Examples of such ryanodine receptor RyR associated conditions disorders and diseases include various cardiac conditions disorders and diseases and skeletal muscle conditions disorders and diseases including those described herein.

RyR associated cardiac conditions disorders and diseases include irregular heartbeat conditions disorders and diseases drug induced irregular heartbeat conditions disorders and diseases exercise induced irregular heartbeat conditions disorders and diseases sudden cardiac death drug induced sudden cardiac death exercise induced sudden cardiac death congestive heart failure chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and high blood pressure. Irregular heartbeat conditions disorders and diseases include drug induced irregular heartbeat conditions disorders and diseases and exercise induced irregular heartbeat conditions disorders and diseases which can include atrial and ventricular arrhythmia atrial and ventricular fibrillation atrial and ventricular tachyarrhythmia atrial and ventricular tachycardia catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia CPVT and drug or exercise induced variants thereof.

RyR associated skeletal muscle conditions disorders and diseases include skeletal muscle fatigue exercise induced skeletal muscle fatigue muscular dystrophy bladder disorders and incontinence.

Compounds of the present teachings can be prepared in different forms such as salts hydrates complexes esters prodrugs or salts of prodrugs and the present teachings include all variant forms of the compounds.

For example a compound of the present teachings can be formulated as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt e.g. acid addition salt and complexes thereof. The preparation of such salts can facilitate the pharmacological use by altering the physical characteristics of the agent without preventing its physiological effect. Examples of useful alterations in physical properties include lowering the melting point to facilitate transmucosal administration and increasing the solubility to facilitate administering higher concentrations of the drug. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds disclosed herein which can have an acidic moiety can be formed using organic and inorganic bases. Both mono and polyanionic salts are contemplated depending on the number of acidic hydrogens available for deprotonation. Suitable salts formed with bases include metal salts such as alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salts for example sodium potassium or magnesium salts ammonia salts and organic amine salts such as those formed with morpholine thiomorpholine piperidine pyrrolidine a mono di or tri lower alkylamine e.g. ethyl tert butyl diethyl diisopropyl triethyl tributyl or dimethylpropylamine or a mono di or trihydroxy lower alkylamine e.g. mono di or triethanolamine . Specific non limiting examples of inorganic bases include NaHCO NaCO KHCO KCO CsCO LiOH NaOH KOH NaHPO NaHPO and NaPO. Internal salts also can be formed. Similarly when a compound disclosed herein contains a basic moiety salts can be formed using organic and inorganic acids. For example salts can be formed from the following acids acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric dichloroacetic ethenesulfonic formic fumaric gluconic glutamic hippuric hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic malonic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic naphthalenesulfonic nitric oxalic pamoic pantothenic phosphoric phthalic propionic succinic sulfuric tartaric and toluenesulfonic as well as other known pharmaceutically acceptable acids. In general salt forms of the present compounds can be more soluble in water and various hydrophilic organic solvents and generally demonstrate higher melting points in comparison to their free base forms. The selection of the appropriate salt will be known to one skilled in the art. Other non pharmaceutically acceptable salts e.g. oxalates can be used for example in the isolation of compounds of Formulae I and II for laboratory use or for subsequent conversion to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt.

Compounds of the present teachings also can form hydrates or solvates. The term solvate as used herein means a compound of Formula I or II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound of Formula I or II wherein molecules of a suitable solvent are incorporated in the crystal lattice. A suitable solvent is physiologically tolerable at the dosage administered. Examples of suitable solvents are ethanol water and the like. When water is the solvent the molecule is referred to as a hydrate. 

Esters of the compounds disclosed herein can include various pharmaceutically acceptable esters known in the art that can be metabolized into the free acid form e.g. a free carboxylic acid form in a mammal. Examples of such esters include alkyl esters e.g. of 1 to 10 carbon atoms cycloalkyl esters e.g. of 3 10 carbon atoms aryl esters e.g. of 6 14 carbon atoms including of 6 10 carbon atoms and heterocyclic analogues thereof e.g. of 3 14 ring atoms 1 3 of which can be selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms wherein the alcohol residue can include further substituents. In some embodiments esters of the compounds disclosed herein can be Calkyl esters such as methyl esters ethyl esters propyl esters isopropyl esters butyl esters isobutyl esters t butyl esters pentyl esters isopentyl esters neopentyl esters and hexyl esters Ccycloalkyl esters such as cyclopropyl esters cyclopropylmethyl esters cyclobutyl esters cyclopentyl esters and cyclohexyl esters or aryl esters such as phenyl esters benzyl esters and tolyl esters.

Also provided in accordance with the present teachings are prodrugs of the compounds disclosed herein. As used herein prodrug refers to a moiety that produces generates or releases a compound of the present teachings when administered to a mammalian subject. Prodrugs can be prepared by modifying functional groups present in the compounds in such a way that the modifications are cleaved either by routine manipulation or in vivo from the parent compounds. For example the compound can carry protective groups which are split off by hydrolysis in body fluids e.g. in the bloodstream thus releasing the active compound or is oxidized or reduced in body fluids to release the active compound. Examples of prodrugs include compounds as described herein that contain one or more molecular moieties appended to a hydroxyl amino sulfhydryl or carboxyl group of the compound and that when administered to a mammalian subject is cleaved in vivo to form the free hydroxyl amino sulfhydryl or carboxyl group respectively. Examples of prodrugs can include acetate formate and benzoate derivatives of alcohol and amine functional groups in the compounds of the present teachings. Preparation and use of prodrugs is discussed in T. Higuchi and V. Stella Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 of the A.C.S. Symposium Series and in ed. Edward B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. Prodrugs are often useful because in some situations they are easier to administer than the parent drug. They are bioavailable for instance by oral administration whereas the parent drug is not. The pro drug also can have improved solubility in pharmaceutical compositions over the parent drug.

The present teachings also provide pharmaceutical compositions that include at least one compound described herein and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients or diluents. Examples of such carriers are well known to those skilled in the art and can be prepared in accordance with acceptable pharmaceutical procedures such as for example those described in 20th edition ed. Alfonso R. Gennaro Lippincott Williams Wilkins Baltimore Md. 2000 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable refers to a substance that is acceptable for use in pharmaceutical applications from a toxicological perspective and does not adversely interact with the active ingredient. Accordingly pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are those that are compatible with the other ingredients in the formulation and are biologically acceptable. Supplementary active ingredients can also be incorporated into the pharmaceutical compositions.

Compounds of the present teachings can be useful for treating a pathological condition disease or disorder in a subject. As used herein treating refers to partially or completely alleviating and or ameliorating the condition and or symptoms thereof. The present teachings accordingly include a method of providing to a subject a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of the present teachings in combination or association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Compounds of the present teachings can be administered alone or in combination with other therapeutically effective compounds or therapies for the treatment of a pathological condition or disorder. As used herein therapeutically effective refers to a substance or an amount that elicits a desirable biological activity or effect. As such what is therapeutically effective depends upon the context in which it is being applied and the activity or effective elicited can be preventive and or therapeutic.

The terms animal subject and patient as used herein include all members of the animal kingdom including mammals e.g. cats dogs horses humans etc. .

Compounds of the present teachings can be administered to a subject by contacting target cells e.g. cardiac muscle cells in vivo in the subject with the compounds. The present compounds can be contacted with e.g. introduced into cells of the subject using known techniques utilized for the introduction and administration of proteins nucleic acids and other drugs. Examples of methods for contacting the cells with i.e. treating the cells with the present compounds of Formula I can include absorption electroporation immersion injection introduction liposome delivery transfection transfusion vectors and other drug delivery vehicles and methods. When the target cells are localized to a particular portion of a subject it can be desirable to introduce the present compounds directly to the cells by injection or by some other means e.g. by introducing the compounds into the blood or another body fluid . The target cells can be contained in tissue of a subject and can be detected by standard detection methods readily determined from the known art examples of which include immunological techniques e.g. immunohistochemical staining fluorescence imaging techniques and microscopic techniques.

Compounds of the present teachings can be administered orally or parenterally neat or in combination with conventional pharmaceutical carriers. Applicable solid carriers can include one or more substances which can also act as flavoring agents lubricants solubilizers suspending agents fillers glidants compression aids binders or tablet disintegrating agents or encapsulating materials. The compounds can be formulated in conventional manner for example in a manner similar to that used for known antiinflammatory agents. Oral formulations containing an active compound disclosed herein can include any conventionally used oral form including tablets capsules buccal forms troches lozenges and oral liquids suspensions or solutions. In powders the carrier can be a finely divided solid which is an admixture with a finely divided active compound. In tablets an active compound can be mixed with a carrier having the necessary compression properties in suitable proportions and compacted in the shape and size desired. The powders and tablets may contain up to 99 of the active compound.

Capsules can contain mixtures of active compound s with inert filler s and or diluent s such as the pharmaceutically acceptable starches e.g. corn potato or tapioca starch sugars artificial sweetening agents powdered celluloses e.g. crystalline and microcrystalline celluloses flours gelatins gums and the like.

Useful tablet formulations can be made by conventional compression wet granulation or dry granulation methods and utilize pharmaceutically acceptable diluents binding agents lubricants disintegrants surface modifying agents including surfactants suspending or stabilizing agents including magnesium stearate stearic acid sodium lauryl sulfate talc sugars lactose dextrin starch gelatin cellulose methyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose sodium carboxymethyl cellulose carboxymethylcellulose calcium polyvinylpyrrolidine alginic acid acacia gum xanthan gum sodium citrate complex silicates calcium carbonate glycine sucrose sorbitol dicalcium phosphate calcium sulfate lactose kaolin mannitol sodium chloride low melting waxes and ion exchange resins. Preferred surface modifying agents include nonionic and anionic surface modifying agents. Representative examples of surface modifying agents include poloxamer 188 benzalkonium chloride calcium stearate cetostearl alcohol cetomacrogol emulsifying wax sorbitan esters colloidal silicon dioxide phosphates sodium dodecylsulfate magnesium aluminum silicate and triethanolamine. Oral formulations herein can utilize standard delay or time release formulations to alter the absorption of the active compound s . The oral formulation can also comprise a compound as described herein in water or fruit juice containing appropriate solubilizers or emulsifiers as needed.

Liquid carriers can be used in preparing solutions suspensions emulsions syrups elixirs and for inhaled delivery. A compound described herein can be dissolved or suspended in a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid carrier such as water an organic solvent or a mixture of both or pharmaceutically acceptable oils or fats. The liquid carrier can contain other suitable pharmaceutical additives such as solubilizers emulsifiers buffers preservatives sweeteners flavoring agents suspending agents thickening agents colors viscosity regulators stabilizers and osmo regulators. Examples of liquid carriers for oral and parenteral administration include water particularly containing additives as described above e.g. cellulose derivatives such as a sodium carboxymethyl cellulose solution alcohols including monohydric alcohols and polyhydric alcohols e.g. glycols and their derivatives and oils e.g. fractionated coconut oil and arachis oil . For parenteral administration the carrier can be an oily ester such as ethyl oleate and isopropyl myristate. Sterile liquid carriers are used in sterile liquid form compositions for parenteral administration. The liquid carrier for pressurized compositions can be halogenated hydrocarbon or other pharmaceutically acceptable propellants.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions which are sterile solutions or suspensions can be utilized by for example intramuscular intraperitoneal or subcutaneous injection. Sterile solutions can also be administered intravenously. Compositions for oral administration can be in either liquid or solid form.

Preferably the pharmaceutical composition is in unit dosage form for example as tablets capsules powders solutions suspensions emulsions or granules. In such form the pharmaceutical composition can be sub divided in unit dose s containing appropriate quantities of the active compound. The unit dosage forms can be packaged compositions for example packeted powders vials ampoules prefilled syringes or sachets containing liquids. Alternatively the unit dosage form can be a capsule or tablet itself or it can be the appropriate number of any such compositions in package form. Such unit dosage form may contain from about 1 mg kg of active compound to about 500 mg kg of active compound and can be given in a single dose or in two or more doses. Such doses can be administered in any manner useful in directing the active compound s to the recipient s bloodstream including orally via implants parenterally including intravenous intraperitoneal and subcutaneous injections and transdermally. Such administrations can be carried out using the compounds of the present teachings including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof in lotions creams foams patches suspensions and solutions.

When administered for the treatment or inhibition of a particular condition disease state or disorder it is understood that an effective dosage can vary depending upon many factors such as the particular compound utilized the mode of administration and severity of the condition being treated as well as the various physical factors related to the individual being treated. In therapeutic applications a compound of the present teachings can be provided to a patient already suffering from a disease in an amount sufficient to cure or at least partially ameliorate the symptoms of the disease and its complications. The dosage to be used in the treatment of a specific individual typically must be subjectively determined by the attending physician. The variables involved include the specific condition and its state as well as the size age and response pattern of the patient.

Compounds described herein can be administered parenterally or intraperitoneally. Solutions or suspensions of these active compounds or pharmaceutically acceptable salts hydrates or esters thereof can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxyl propylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations typically contain a preservative to inhibit the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injection can include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In preferred embodiments the form is sterile and its viscosity permits it to flow through a syringe. The form preferably is stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and can be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils.

Compounds described herein can be administered transdermally i.e. administered across the surface of the body and the inner linings of bodily passages including epithelial and mucosal tissues. Such administration can be carried out using the compounds of the present teachings including pharmaceutically acceptable salts hydrates and esters thereof in lotions creams foams patches suspensions solutions and suppositories rectal and vaginal . Topical formulations that deliver active compound s through the epidermis can be useful for localized treatment of inflammation and arthritis.

Transdermal administration can be accomplished through the use of a transdermal patch containing an active compound and a carrier that can be inert to the active compound can be non toxic to the skin and can allow delivery of the active compound for systemic absorption into the blood stream via the skin. The carrier can take any number of forms such as creams and ointments pastes gels and occlusive devices. The creams and ointments can be viscous liquid or semisolid emulsions of either the oil in water or water in oil type. Pastes comprised of absorptive powders dispersed in petroleum or hydrophilic petroleum containing the active compound can also be suitable. A variety of occlusive devices can be used to release the active compound into the blood stream such as a semi permeable membrane covering a reservoir containing the active compound with or without a carrier or a matrix containing the active compound. Other occlusive devices are known in the literature.

Lipid formulations or nanocapsules can be used to introduce compounds of the present teachings into host cells either in vitro or in vivo. Lipid formulations and nanocapsules can be prepared by methods known in the art.

To increase the effectiveness of compounds of the present teachings it can be desirable to combine a compound with other agents effective in the treatment of the target disease. The other agents can be administered at the same time or at different times than the compounds disclosed herein.

Compounds of the present teachings can be prepared in accordance with the procedures described in the examples below from commercially available starting materials compounds known in the literature or readily prepared intermediates by employing standard synthetic methods and procedures known to those skilled in the art. Standard synthetic methods and procedures for the preparation of organic molecules and functional group transformations and manipulations can be readily obtained from the relevant scientific literature or from standard textbooks in the field. It will be appreciated that where typical or preferred process conditions i.e. reaction temperatures times mole ratios of reactants solvents pressures etc. are given other process conditions can also be used unless otherwise stated. Optimum reaction conditions may vary with the particular reactants or solvent used but such conditions can be determined by one skilled in the art by routine optimization procedures. Those skilled in the art of organic synthesis will recognize that the nature and order of the synthetic steps presented may be varied for the purpose of optimizing the formation of the compounds described herein.

The processes described herein can be monitored according to any suitable method known in the art. For example product formation can be monitored by spectroscopic means such as nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy e.g. H or C infrared spectroscopy spectrophotometry e.g. UV visible or mass spectrometry and or by chromatography such as high performance liquid chromatography HPLC or thin layer chromatography.

Preparation of compounds can involve the protection and deprotection of various chemical groups. The need for protection and deprotection and the selection of appropriate protecting groups can be readily determined by one skilled in the art. The chemistry of protecting groups can be found for example in Greene et al. 4th Ed. Wiley Sons 2006 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

The reactions of the processes described herein can be carried out in suitable solvents which can be readily selected by one skilled in the art of organic synthesis. Suitable solvents typically are substantially nonreactive with the reactants intermediates and or products at the temperatures at which the reactions are carried out i.e. temperatures that can range from the solvent s freezing temperature to the solvent s boiling temperature. A given reaction can be carried out in one solvent or a mixture of more than one solvent. Depending on the particular reaction step suitable solvents for a particular reaction step can be selected.

Aspects of the present teachings can be further understood in light of the following examples which should not be construed as limiting the scope of the present teachings in any way.

2 Amino 5 methoxybenzoic acid as purchased from Sigma Aldrich compound 1 5.0 g was dissolved in HO 20 ml and concentrated HCl 37.3 8 ml . The solution was cooled to 5 C. with a salt ice HO bath and a solution of NaNO 2.7 g in HO 11 ml was added slowly maintaining the solution temperature below 5 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour. The solution was filtered and added slowly at 0 C. to a solution of NaSin HO prepared from NaS.9HO 10.3 g sulfur 1.33 g NaOH 1.6 g and HO 16 ml . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and filtered. Upon acidification with concentrated HCl the product was obtained as a solid.

5 Methoxydithiosalicylic acid 3 g was treated with SOCl 5 ml at reflux for 3 hours. Then the excess SOClwas removed under vacuum. The residue was dissolved in THF 150 ml and cooled to 0 C. and 2 chloroethylamine hydrochloride 2.85 g and NaCO 5.2 g were added. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvents were removed. The residue was diluted with EtOAc and the organic phase washed with HO 1 N HCl saturated NaHCOand HO. After drying over NaSOand removal of solvents a white solid was obtained.

5 Methoxydithiosalicylic acid di 2 chloroethyl amide 2.0 g in THF methanol HO 110 ml 5 5 1 was treated with triethylamine 6 ml and trimethylphosphine 18 mmol at reflux for 12 hours. After removal of solvents the residue was distributed into EtOAc and washed with saturated NaHCOin HO. After column purification the pure product was obtained as a solid.

7 Methoxy 5 oxo 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1 4 benzothiazepine 0.300 g was treated with LiAlH 0.160 g in THF 10 ml at reflux overnight. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and NaSO.10HO was added slowly to quench the reaction. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and filtered through a short celite column. Removal of the solvents led to the desired product as a colorless oil.

To a stirred solution of 7 methoxy 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1 4 benzothiazepine 0.250 g and triethyl amine 0.53 g in THF 10 ml at 0 C. was added dropwise 3 bromopropionic chloride 0.444 g . The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and at room temperature overnight. After dilution with ethyl acetate the organic phase was washed with saturated NaHCO HO and HO. After drying over sodium sulfate and filtration removal of solvent gave to the product.

The reaction mixture of 6 0.100 g 4 benzo 1 3 dioxol 5 ylmethyl piperidine compound 7 as purchased from Bioblocks Inc. 0.086 g and NaCO 0.086 g in DMF 5 ml was stirred at 60 C. for 12 hours. DMF was evaporated under vacuum and the product extracted with EtOAc washed with HO and dried over anhydrous NaSO. After filtration and removal of solvents the crude product was purified by column chromatography.

Derivatives of 4 CmC 4 chloro 3 methylphenol having increased electron donating properties can be obtained by preparing a series of 4 dialkylamino 3 methylphenol compounds as shown above. By varying R and R groups on the amine the compound s solubility and its electron donating ability can be fine tuned.

The primary starting material 11 can be prepared by nitration of m cresol. An approach using Yb doped montmorillonite KSF has been shown to provide the desired isomer in 52 yield. Reduction of the nitro group to form 12 can be performed with Raney Nickel. Final removal of acetate under basic conditions is expected to yield 15. Other derivatives can be prepared from 13 via Sandmeyer chemistry turning the amino group into CN COOH from hydrolysis of the nitrile I SR R alkyl or aryl and OH.

4 Methoxy 3 methylphenol was prepared according to the procedures described in Higgins et al. An Assessment of the Reaction Energetics for Cytochrome P450 Mediated Reactions . 2001 385 220 30. Specifically phosphorus oxychloride 5.1 ml 0.057 mol was added dropwise to a solution of o methylanisole 5.33 ml 0.043 mol in dimethylformamide 6 g under nitrogen. After addition the mixture was heated and refluxed for 4 hours cooled and then added to 100 ml of water. To the solution 10 NaOH was added and the solution was extracted with 4 100 ml of ether. The ether layers were washed with water and then brine solution dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The dark oil that remained 5.0 g 77 was purified by column chromatography silica gel 90 hexane 10 ethyl acetate . The purified oil 1.78 g 28 was dissolved in dichloromethane 100 ml and then 3.03 g 0.018 mol 3 chloroperbenzoic acid was added. The mixture was refluxed under nitrogen for 5 hours cooled and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressured. The dark oil that remained was dissolved in 7 ml of methanol and 5.5 ml of 10 aqueous potassium hydroxide solution was added. The solution was stirred for 2 hours water was added and the solution was extracted with ether. The ether layers were combined and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and then with water. The ether was dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The oil that remained 1.21 g 74 was recrystallized twice with hexane to give 4 methoxy 3 methyl phenol as long white needles.

Fast twitch skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum was isolated from New Zealand White rabbit a rich source of skeletal receptors. Following isolation of a crude fraction the SR was placed on a discontinuous sucrose gradient and a heavy fraction HSR was used for all single channel experiments. Ca release channel reconstitution into a bilayer membrane was carried out by the addition of SR vesicles to the cis side of a planar bilayer lipid membrane. Bilayers made with a 5 3 2 mixture of phosphatidylethanolamine phosphatidylserine phosphatidylcholine Avanti Polar Lipids at 50 mg ml in decane were formed across a 150 m hole drilled in a polystyrene cup separating two chambers of 0.7 ml each. The cis chamber contained 400 mM cesium methane sulfonate CsMS 50 M CaCl 25 mM HEPES pH 7.4 while the trans side contained 40 mM CsMS 25 mM HEPES pH 7.4. SR vesicles suspended in 0.4 0.6 M sucrose 400 mM CsMS were added to the cis chamber at a final concentration of 5 20 g ml. Following the fusion of a single vesicle 4M CsMS 25 mM Hepes pH 7.4 was added to the trans chamber to equalize the CsMS concentration on the two sides of the membrane which stopped further fusions. Channel activity was then measured at a holding potential of 25 mV with respect to the trans ground side. A Warner Instruments Bilayer Clamp Amplifier model BC 525A was used to amplify picoampere currents. The data were interfaced through a Digidata 1322A 16 bit data Acquisition System Axon Instruments stored filtered at 1 kHz and analyzed for single channel activity using pCLAMP software package version 9.0 Axon Instruments Burlingame Calif. .

As shown in 4 MmC significantly decreased the open probability P of the skeletal muscle CRC at sub micromolar concentrations. Significant decrease was observed with a 

Generally speaking most of the previously reported characteristics in the literature on the cardiac receptor RyR2 are similar to that on the skeletal muscle receptor RyR1 . However the sensitivity of RyR1 versus RyR2 to various agonists and antagonists occasionally differ. measures the sensitivity of the cardiac receptor RyR2 to K201 at the single channel level in which C represents the closed state and Oand O respectively correspond to one or two open channels. In the ICfor K201 inhibition of RyR1 is 4.0 while in addition of 0.5 M K201 to RyR2 resulted in about 50 decrease in P Pis the open probability to state 1 . Therefore RyR2 the cardiac receptor appears to be significantly more sensitive 8 fold to inhibition by K201 than is RyR1 the skeletal muscle receptor . Accordingly it can be expected that a K201 derivative that inhibits the skeletal muscle receptor RyR1 will have even stronger inhibitory effects on the cardiac receptor RyR2.

A sample buffer containing a compound to be tested and a photo reactive dye i.e. 10 M methylene blue eosin B or erythrosin B can be continuously illuminated with white light e.g. about 10 cm away from a halogen 20 W light source and its spectral characteristics monitored as a function of time e.g. using a HP8452A diode array spectrophotometer . This can be performed in the presence of oxygen. In general oxygen dissolved in the solution may decrease the photochemical activity of the dye. To compensate and to increase the sensitivity of the method a comparatively high light intensity can be used e.g. in the range of about 1 3 mW cm .

To determine if a compound is an electron acceptor an electron donor e.g. NADH or EDTA can be added to the sample buffer to supply electrons to the photo excited dye. The electron donor reduces the concentration of the dye cation radical and maintains an increased concentration of the dye anion radical. To test whether a compound is an electron donor no separate electron donor is necessary. In both cases a probe can be added e.g. NBD Cl or XTT to react with superoxide and produce a detectable product. The product can be measured for example as an increase in absorbance at 470 nm. The difference between the probe absorbance at 470 nm in the presence of the compound to be tested and a control without the compound can be taken as a measure of redox activity of the compound.

When oxygen is unable to intercept all electrons from the dye anion radical the dye anion radical may disproportionate and form a colorless compound. This process also may serve as a detectable variable corresponding to the redox activity of the tested compound. A compound with electron acceptor properties intercepts electrons from dye anion radical and thus slows down the rate of dye photo bleaching. A compound with electron donor properties donates electrons to the dye cation radical thus stabilizing the dye anion radical and increasing the rate of dye photo bleaching. See also International Publication No. WO 2006 086670.

In addition time dependent measurements of XTT reduction were carried out in the presence of increasing concentrations of FKBP12 5 M to 100 M . A series of exponential rise to maximum curves were obtained similar to . The initial rate of XTT reduction which is proportional to the rate of O production is plotted versus the concentration of FKBP12 in . The data were fit to the Michaelis Menton equation. The Kderived which corresponds to the concentration of FKBP12 at which half maximal electron donor activity is observed 12.4 M. shows that FKBP12 is a stronger electron donor than K201 K 28 M but has similar electron donor properties to 4 methoxy 3 methyl phenol K 13 M .

The hypothesis that K201 and other derivatives with strong electron donor properties inhibit single channel activity by virtue of their electron donor properties is supported by the data presented in obtained using procedures described in Example 5. As shown in K201 inhibits single channel open probability P both in the absence and presence of FK506 . As expected the Pincreased when 20 M FK506 was added to the cis chamber of the bilayer and the FKBP12 protein dissociates from the RyR complex. Even in the absence of the FKBP12 protein subsequent addition of K201 10 M still inhibited channel activity even though it appeared to be somewhat less effective in decreasing the P .

Further as shown in removal of FKBP12 by addition of FK506 appears to have sensitized the RyR1 to oxidative stress by removing the endogenous electron donor FKBP12.

Isolated RyR receptors were suspended in a buffer containing 250 mM KCl 15 mM NaCl 20 mM Pipes pH 7.1 with different concentrations of CRC modulators for 10 minutes at room temperature. The thiol specific fluorescent probe CPM 10 M was added and incubated with the RyR receptors for 30 minutes. The final CPM fluorescence was measured at an excitation wavelength of 397 nm and an emission wavelength of 465 nm. Calibrations of the CPM fluorescence v. GSH were linear over the range of 0 5 m GSH. The calculated number of thiols is normalized to the number of moles of RyR receptors.

In vivo data were obtained to show that derivatives of K201 that are stronger electron donors than K201 can be more effective than K201 in the treatment and or prevention of conditions disorders and or diseases which involve modulation of the RyR receptors.

In both K201 and its dioxole derivative were shown to enhance Ca transients in female TNF perfused mouse hearts at nanomolar concentrations. Although TNF female hearts exhibit fewer premature ventricular beats and arrhythmias than their male littermates they show a smaller Ca transient than do their WT counterparts. Reflecting the enhanced sensitivity of RyR2 to these two drugs it was observed that the addition of the dioxole derivative of K201 at a concentration as low as 10 nM caused an enhancement of the fractional change in the fluorescence of Rhod 2 which corresponds to an increased rate and amplitude of Ca release from SR. It is believed that the faster and larger Ca transient is due to an increase in Ca load in the lumen of the SR caused by a reduced Ca leak from the SR. It is worth noting that the amplitude of the Ca transients were not adversely affected until the concentration of K201 reached 10 25 M. In contrast the dioxole derivative did not reduce the amount of SR Ca release compared to controls. Between each 5 10 second interval in which the fluorescence was displayed there was a 10 minute period to allow the perfused heart to equilibrate with the new concentration of drug. The inhibition of Ca transients by high concentrations of K201 may be due to a direct interaction and inhibition of RyR2 channel opening or indirectly to its action on L type Ca channels.

Dofetilide a selective IKinhibitor lengthens the cardiac AP elicits EADs in 5 minutes panel A and promotes TdP panel B in Langendorff perfused rabbit hearts. EADs are triggered by spontaneous SR Ca release and increase in severity or frequency leading to TdP after a few minutes.

By adding 1.0 M of the dioxole derivative of K201 all EADs were suppressed and the normal AP shape was restored panels C and D . It is worth noting that the addition of the dioxole derivative of K201 eliminated both EADs and delayed afterdepolarizations DADs . Furthermore the protective effects lasted throughout or for 20 minutes of continuous perfusion with dofetilide and the dioxole derivative of K201. These data were derived from adult female rabbit hearts n 3 that were paced at 1.2 second intervals.

In summary the dioxole derivative of K201 was demonstrated to be a potent inhibitor of single channel activity and that it can increase Ca loading in TNF female mouse heart failure model and decrease arrhythmias in a rabbit heart following treatment with a K channel inhibitor that induces long QT syndrome . Other derivatives of K201 having enhanced electron donor properties can be expected to interact with the CRC and decrease the Ca leak associated with RyR2 which in turn can be used in possible treatment of long QT syndrome.

The inventors thank Professor Guy Salama of the Department of Cell Biology and Physiology at the University of Pittsburgh for providing and allowing their reproduction in the present application.

All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Variations modifications and other implementations of what is described herein will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and the essential characteristics of the present teachings. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is to be defined not by the preceding illustrative description but instead by the following claims and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.

