---

title: System and method for distribution and redistribution of electronic content
abstract: A system and method for enabling the recordation of electronic content that has been published via a network, such as the Internet, so that the electronic content may be stored, retrieved, shared, and manipulated by individual users. Furthermore, the system and method of the present invention enable the content publisher of the electronic content to analyze activity associated with its storage and sharing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09159075&OS=09159075&RS=09159075
owner: 
number: 09159075
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100705
---
This application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 12 764 906 filed Apr. 24 2010 which claims priority from provisional application No. 61 257 837 filed Nov. 3 2009 and from provisional application No. 61 172 222 filed Apr. 24 2009. Each above identified application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention generally pertains to processing and distribution of electronic content via an electronic network.

The Internet is employed to distribute a wide range of electronic content. One of the most common ways is to publish is on a Web site. An electronic content publisher may be an organization an institution or an individual. For example news organizations such as the New York Times and the Washington Post publish news stories individuals post articles on various subjects in Web journals i.e. blogs and musicians post songs to be listened to or downloaded. Commercial entities individual or organizational may use the Internet to publish listings for their goods or services. For example online retailers may employ their own Web sites to sell their products or may use an intermediary service to do so e.g. Amazon.com . Likewise individuals may sell their products via personal Web pages or may use intermediary services such as online auctions sites e.g. eBay.com or online classified ad services e.g. Craig s List . Additionally a content publisher may distribute electronic advertising content. Electronic advertising content is distinct from other forms of electronic content distributed via the Internet. Electronic advertising content is created by a commercial entity in order to drive usage and or or sales of a particular good or service. It is not merely content associated with a good or service but rather is distributed specifically to entice an individual to use or purchase the good or service.

Publishing electronic content on the Internet involves making it available via a Web page in the hope that an individual will access the Web page and view it. Unlike traditional forms of media it may be difficult for a content publisher to determine levels of readership accurately. For example a newspaper publisher may be able to estimate how many individuals read its periodical based upon newsstand sales and subscription levels. However the same newspaper publisher may have a difficult time determining how many individuals have accessed its Web site content. Tracking services such as Google Analytics and Site Meter offer utilities for this purpose but they are not without their flaws. For example such services often determine readership by placing a cookie on a user s computer via his Web browser. However if the user s browser privacy settings prohibit cookie usage the tracking service is ineffective. If the user deletes the cookie the tracking service may have to generate another one when the individual next visits the site thereby counting the same individual multiple times. Furthermore even if such tracking services manage to track a reader accurately they provide little data about the individual reader such as his characteristics how he discovered the electronic content and whether he shared the content with another person.

Furthermore current methods for sharing electronic content are not typically traceable by the content publisher and as such these methods provide little benefit to the content publisher. For example services such as Digg and Delicious allow users to save the Uniform Resource Locator URL also called a link associated with electronic content and share the URL with other users. While this is useful for the users it does not provide the content publisher with any particular benefit other than providing another avenue of distribution. As nearly any URL may be shared via these services this does not provide one content publisher with an advantage over the other. Apart from a content publisher using such as service as a user itself and searching the service for its own content the content publisher cannot determine which of its content has been shared who has shared it and how many times it has been shared. Other services such as Google Notebook and Evernote allow users to cut and paste electronic content to an electronic notebook i.e. rather than storing a link and share this content. When this is done the stored content is no longer linked to the originating source and therefore the content publisher completely lacks a method for determining which of its content has been shared via such services.

For at least the aforementioned reasons current electronic content storage and sharing methods offer inadequate benefits to content publishers.

Like other forms of electronic content distributing electronic advertising content herein referred to as an electronic ad involves publishing the content on a particular section of a Web page in the hope that a consumer will see it when viewing the Web page. Typically the Web page s primary purpose is to distribute another form of electronic content. For example an electronic ad may be placed on a Web page whose primary purpose is to provide users with online games. Advertising on the Internet involves an enormous market that has been growing steadily since 1995. Massive sums of money have been spent on advertising on the Internet including tracking the performance of electronic ads and targeting advertisements to particular audiences using technologies. Yet of all electronic ads distributed on Web sites only about 1 are clicked. Electronic advertising content publishers such as ad providers and advertisers have perpetually grappled with the problem of low response rates.

An electronic ad may be created so that its distribution may be tracked and evaluated. For example an electronic ad may include computer code that enables an advertiser to ascertain how many times it has been viewed e.g. how many impressions or clicks . Electronic ad tracking may be conducted for financial purposes. For example an ad provider may charge for ad distribution on a per viewing basis. An advertiser may be responsible for paying the ad provider each time the ad is viewed or fee for a particular amount of viewings.

Generally electronic advertising works in the following way a Web site publisher designates space on its Web site as available for advertising. An ad provider provides the Web site publisher with a computer code to be implanted in this ad space. An ad provider is an entity that distributes electronic ads via a network e.g. the Internet on behalf of an advertiser usually for a fee such as Google AdSense Yahoo and the like. An advertiser is an entity wishing to promote a good service or the like. When an individual visits a particular page of the Web site via his Web browser the page is generated per the Web site publisher s source code while the electronic ad is generated in the ad space per the ad provider s code. The electronic advertising content is retrieved from the ad provider s ad server and fills the ad space on the Web page. The ad server maintains electronic advertising content typically configured by the ad provider on behalf of an advertiser. Each time a visitor visits a Web page a new set of electronic ads may be displayed because the Web site publisher may have business relationships with more than one ad provider or because the same ad provider may choose a different set of electronic ads to show on the Web page. Furthermore the electronic content code itself may specify various ads to be shown in the ad space and the ad displayed may vary per the user s particular visit to the Web page. A user may select an electronic ad such as by clicking it and his Web browser typically is then directed to present a landing page associated with the advertiser. The landing page is typically the advertiser s main Web page. For example a user selecting an electronic ad for a dating service will be presented with the dating service s home page.

Due to the particularities of electronic advertising content it may be difficult to store electronic ads for future viewing sharing and the like. A user cannot simply bookmark or save a Web page and assume that the next time he accesses the Web page the electronic advertising content will be the same. The Web site publisher may change its ads periodically and electronic ads may be dynamic and therefore inherently storage prohibitive. For example an electronic ad may involve JavaScript code which is executed on the user s Web browser. The JavaScript code accesses the ad server in real time to retrieve the computer code needed to render an ad on the user s browser. This form of electronic ad cannot be extracted from the Web browser. In fact the content code is specifically designed to be safe and hidden from other code executed on the same browser and on the same Web page. This level of security makes it difficult to extract the visual and informational content of the ad automatically for storage and later retrieval or sharing. A user may cut and paste the electronic ad from the browser into another document but that action is time consuming and error prone. For example the copied ad may contain code that only functions properly when the user s Web browser is at the appropriate Web site. When an ad is cut and pasted from the user s Web browser and the user attempts to view it later the user s computer may not be able to employ the extracted content code accurately. In some cases a cut and paste operation also will not copy certain ad server access codes or identification codes that may be used by the ad server to keep track of the ad for accounting and billing purposes thereby interfering with accurate tracking of the electronic ad.

For at least the aforementioned reasons electronic advertising content does not inherently lend itself for storage and sharing by individual Internet users.

What is needed is a mechanism to improve the distribution and redistribution of both standard electronic content and electronic advertising content. In particular what is needed is to a system and method for providing individuals with a seamless mechanism for storing electronic content for subsequent viewing and providing a mechanism to accomplish the later viewing while also providing electronic content publishers with a convenient mechanism to determine the distribution and audience of their electronic content.

The present invention addresses the aforementioned needs by providing a system and method for enabling the recordation of an electronic content that has been published via a network such as the Internet so that the electronic content may be stored retrieved shared and manipulated by individual users. Furthermore the system and method of the present invention enables the content publisher of the electronic content to analyze activity associated with its storage and sharing.

Various embodiments of the invention are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person with ordinary skill in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The present invention is described herein mainly in terms of an individual accessing electronic content via the Internet such as via a personal computer a mobile phone a personal electronic assistant or a multipurpose mobile device e.g. an iPhone a Blackberry etc. . This is not to be construed as limiting as the present invention may be applicable to any electronic network accessible to a user via a network appropriate device. For example the present invention may be applied to broadcast networks e.g. cable satellite etc. mobile networks interactive television systems kiosk systems and any technologies that enable the distribution and presentation of electronic media.

As illustrated by the present invention pertains to an electronic content storage system ECSS . Although only a single instance of each component is depicted this is for illustrative purposes only and is not to be construed as limiting. ECSS may include one or more item servers ad servers ECSS servers and Web site publishers . ECSS may also comprise one or more social networking Web services and or one or more authentication services . A user may interact with ECSS via an accessing mechanism. The accessing mechanism may be browser mechanism and may enable the user to access data from item server ad server or ECSS server . For example a user may access ECSS by loading a Web page on his personal computer via a Web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox or through his mobile device via its browsing application. The components of the system may interact with one another via network which may be an applicable electronic network such as the Internet or a mobile network.

As used herein a content publisher is not to be construed as limiting and may pertain to any organization institution or individual that initiates the publishing of electronic content via network e.g. the Internet . For example a content publisher may be an ad provider an advertiser an online merchant a blogger a news organization a video producer a music producer or the like. The term electronic content is not to be construed as limiting and may pertain to electronic data in various forms as would be appropriate to the related system component. For example in relation to item server ad server ECSS server Web site publisher or social networking Web service electronic content e.g. electronic content A electronic content F electronic content B electronic content D and electronic content E respectively may pertain to a data record and or computer code. In relation to browser mechanism electronic content e.g. electronic content C may pertain to a visual representation of electronic content along with other data such as a link. Electronic content may include a video an image textual data or the like. Electronic content may include electronic items and electronic ads.

An electronic item as used herein may pertain to electronic content published through network for the benefit of the recipient and or the content publisher but is not designed primarily to advertise a good or service. For example an electronic item may be a news article a product review a blog entry a good or service listing a video clip a catalog item for sale by a merchant website e.g. by Sears.com or the like An electronic item is not meant to include an electronic ad. An electronic ad includes electronic advertising content and is distinct from other forms of electronic content. Electronic advertising content is created by a commercial entity in order to drive usage and or sales of a good or service herein collectively referred to as a product. Its primary purpose is to redirect a viewer s attention from other electronic content towards the product it is advertising. It is not merely content associated with a product but rather is distributed specifically to entice an individual to purchase or use the product. An electronic item on the other hand is distributed for various reasons but not particularly to drive sales of a product. For example an independent review of a product is an electronic item and not an electronic ad because its primary purpose is to critique the product. Although a product listing such as an Amazon listing provides an individual with a mechanism in which to purchase a product it is not in and of itself an electronic ad as its primary purpose is to enable a user to purchase the product. Conversely an electronic ad for a product listed at an online store placed on a Web site e.g. a blog is designed to direct the individual to the product listing in the hope that he will purchase the product. Furthermore unlike electronic item content electronic advertising content is subject to advertising laws and regulations such as truth in advertising laws.

As used herein unless explicitly noted electronic content may pertain to either electronic item content or electronic advertising content.

To participate in ECSS a content publisher may embed an ECSS link in electronic content when creating it. The ECSS link may encode information about the electronic content and the URL of ECSS Server . An electronic content publisher may also modify existing content to include an ECSS link. The ECSS link may be configured to be displayed as an ECSS icon in proximity to the actual electronic content. In an alternate embodiment a content publisher may supply electronic content details to ECSS server and ECSS server may generate the ECSS link for the content publisher to include when the content publisher distributes its content or ECSS server may enable the publishing of the electronic content itself.

An ECSS icon may provide information to the user. In one scenario the ECSS icon may indicate how many times the electronic content has been stored and or shared via ECSS . This information may be presented within the icon itself or may be presented when the user interacts with the icon. For example if the user points his mouse pointer at the icon but does not select it i.e. he hovers the mouse over the icon he may be presented with associated storage and or sharing information.

After the inclusion of an ECSS link in the electronic content the electronic content is enabled for storage if a user so chooses and may be distributed via standard methods. For example when accessing an electronic content displayed on a Web page browser mechanism may display electronic content A or electronic content F as electronic content C by requesting the necessary data from item server and formatting it accordingly. In an alternative implementation browser mechanism may retrieve the electronic content data via ECSS server i.e. from electronic content B . For example the electronic content request may be sent directly to ECSS server instead of to item server or ad server . ECSS server may retrieve electronic content A or electronic content F from the appropriate server configure it via configuration mechanism to include the necessary ECSS link information and optionally other user interface elements and then distribute the ECSS enabled electronic content B to browser mechanism which may display it as electronic content C. Because ECSS server may carry out the embedding of ECSS link this implementation may necessitate no additional effort on the part of the content publisher.

ECSS may serve to provide content publishers with a supplemental publication channel. In addition to the content publisher s standard publication channel i.e. its Web site users may access stored electronic content via ECSS as will be described in detail below. As illustrated by ECSS server may include one or more databases that securely maintain electronic content stored by users so that this content may be accessed at a later time. Storing electronic content may involve storing data related to the content in database in such a way that a user may view stored electronic content as it was originally presented. For example if the electronic content includes a video the user may store this electronic content and later view the video when accessing the stored content. ECSS server may transmit content usage data to item server or ad server so that it may determine how many times stored electronic content has been viewed. A user s use of the electronic content is described as viewing but this is not to be construed as limiting. Viewing as used herein may pertain to a user perusing electronic content e.g. watching a video reading textual data viewing images etc. and in the case of electronic advertising content it may pertain to an ad impression a user clicking on the electronic ad or the like.

In one embodiment stored electronic content may include one or more of tracking information associated with the electronic content such as the referral location e.g. information about the Web site at which the user initially viewed the content and its Uniform Resource Location URL . In order to avoid possible formatting and display problems the entire code associated with the electronic content may be retrieved from item server or ad server and included with stored electronic content .

In another embodiment stored electronic content need not include one or more of the aforementioned elements. When ECSS server receives an indication that a user wishes to store electronic content content identification mechanism may establish a content identifier for the electronic content and this content identifier may be included with stored electronic content . For example content identification mechanism may assign it an alphanumeric identifier. By assigning a content identifier ECSS server need not store all information associated with the electronic content some of which may be proprietary to the content publisher. Not storing the entire electronic content information may reduce the burden of ECSS server and may allow item server or ad server to maintain complete control over the its content. In one scenario stored electronic content only includes the content identifier.

Alternatively the content publisher may generate content identifier for its electronic content. When publishing an element of electronic content the content publisher may assign it a content identifier include it in an embedded ECSS link and publish the content identifier i.e. via the ECSS link in association with the electronic content. The content identifier may be transmitted to ECSS server when the user indicates he wishes to store the associated electronic content e.g. by clicking the ECSS icon . In alternative embodiment the content publisher may register a content identifier with ECSS server when it publishes an element of electronic content so that ECSS server may maintain a registry of storable electronic content.

If a content identifier is employed for storage rather than the complete electronic content code one or more processes may be employed by ECSS server to present stored electronic content via browser mechanism . A content identifier may serve as a reference for data retrieval data within ECSS server . Once particular stored electronic content is selected for viewing ECSS server may locate content retrieval data such as a computer code associated with its content identifier. If ECSS server generated the content identifier it may share the content identifier with item server or ad server so that server or server may associate it with the appropriate data in its own records. This may assist in determining the electronic content at item server or ad server when a user wishes to view stored electronic content .

As aforementioned the use of a content identifier may allow the content publisher to maintain control over its content. As such it may adjust stored electronic content . For example if a user stores a New York Times article the content publisher may add materials such as by updating the article or adding links to other relevant articles may adjust the ads displayed in conjunction with the article i.e. the electronic ads displayed with the electronic item or the like.

As described herein unless explicitly noted stored electronic content may pertain to either any of the aforementioned embodiments.

Database may also maintain a user account for each user. Although electronic content is described herein as being stored in user account this is not to be construed as limiting. In one embodiment rather than being stored in a particular user account electronic content may be maintained separately at ECSS server but may be associated with a user account via a user identifier or similar mechanism. For example electronic content may be associated with an individual s email address user name identification code or the like. User account also may include user profile which may include credential information e.g. user name and password personal information demographic data financial account data and the like. Database may also maintain relationship record which may include data pertaining to how particular users and content publishers are related to other users and content publishers. For example relationship record may indicate which users an individual has listed as friends or which users have stored electronic content from a particular content publisher. ECSS server may also include communication mechanism which may enable ECSS server to interact with other entities attached to network such as item server ad server and browser mechanism . ECSS server may in addition to or instead of relationship record include social network mechanism such as an application programming interface API thereby enabling interaction with a social networking Web service such as Facebook. One or more elements of relationship information and user profile data may be stored in association with the user s social network account in addition to or instead of being associated with user account at ECSS server .

As a user interacts with a Web page he may be presented with ECSS enabled electronic content. For example the user may access a blog and view electronic content on a displayed Web page. If the user wishes to save the electronic content for later viewing he may select the ECSS icon such as by clicking it with a mouse. The electronic content may then be stored to ECSS server . If the electronic content is an electronic ad when the electronic ad is selected an electronic form may become visible overlaid on the electronic content presenting the user with two options go to the ad landing page or to store the electronic ad such that there is no further distraction from the current Internet activity of the user. An ECSS link may allow the user may store the electronic content in one or more fashions. For example by clicking an ECSS icon the user may indicate that the electronic content should be stored as primary content whereas if he only hovers his mouse pointer over the ECSS icon this may indicate to ECSS that the electronic content should be stored as secondary content. This may allow a user to recall content he had a passing interest in Web browser to content that fully engaged him. If electronic content is stored as secondary content the ECSS may not store the full content but rather store a simpler indication thereby allowing the user to later revisit his secondary content to determine whether he wishes to save the full content i.e. save it as primary content or delete it. In one scenario secondary content may be removed automatically from user account after a set time period e.g. after 30 days .

In response to the receipt of ECSS link information e.g. the URL and encoded content information at ECSS server authentication module analyzes the user s credentials in order to associate the electronic content with the appropriate user account thereby storing it. As aforementioned when a user opts to store electronic content content identification mechanism may associate a content identifier with stored electronic content . In one embodiment ECSS server communicates the content identifier to item server or ad server which may in turn associate the content identifier with the electronic content in its own database. Any known method may be employed to identify the user and his user account . For example a user s credentials may be a tracking cookie or a user name and password. In another embodiment ECSS may include authentication service and authentication service may authenticate users on behalf of ECSS server rather than ECSS server itself. In one embodiment a user may store electronic content in association with one or more of his ECSS user account and his social network Web service account by way of social network mechanism . Social network Web service may handle user authentication instead of or in addition to ECSS server or authentication service .

In one scenario a software application may ease use of ECSS . For example an add on for a Web browser and or a Web service may enable functionality that eases the storage of electronic content to ECSS server allowing a user to store electronic content displayed to the appropriate user account . In regard to electronic advertising content the electronic ads still may be shown as the user employs browser mechanism or they may be suppressed until the user accesses ECSS server to view them.

ECSS may also enable the sharing of stored electronic content. This may allow for the viral transmission of electronic content. A user may be enabled to share stored electronic content with other individuals. This may be done through ECSS server i.e. from one ECSS user to another or ECSS server may interact with another service such as social networking Web service e.g. Facebook.com MySpace.com etc. so that a user may share stored electronic content with other users of social networking Web service . As aforementioned social network mechanism may enable ECSS server and in turn the user to view store and share electronic contents via social networking Web service . In one embodiment ECSS server itself may serve as a social networking Web service and users may see which stored electronic contents other users have shared. Alternatively a user may be enabled to share stored electronic content via email such as by emailing a link to stored electronic content . A user may be required to have authorization by another user to be privy to shared electronic content. For example an individual s shared stored electronic content may only be visible to other users the individual has indicated are friends. To encourage users to share stored electronic content content publishers or the ECSS service provider may compensate a user for sharing. A user may be required to share a minimum amount before being compensated and or a user may be limited to sharing a maximum number for a particular period e.g. 100 items ads per month . Once a user has shared stored electronic content it may be associated with both the initial user and the recipient.

After electronic content has been stored in association with user account the user may access ECSS server to view it. Electronic content may be considered stored in i.e. associated with an individual s user account if the individual stored it if another ECSS user shared it with the individual or if the individual s profile settings allow ECSS server to store the electronic content in his user account automatically. Viewing interface may present to the user stored electronic content regardless of who stored the content or may present only electronic content stored by a certain set of users. For example thumbnail images representative of stored electronic content may be presented. While a user may have a personal set of stored electronic content e.g. content he has stored or content he has received via sharing he may also be able to access the stored electronic content of other users. A user may be allowed to designate which of his stored electronic content is public and which is private.

The user may access ECSS server in various manners. For example a user may access ECSS server by accessing a Web site using a keyboard combination or by right clicking on an ECSS icon displayed in conjunction with electronic content thereby accessing a menu with a link to access ECSS server . Once ECSS server is accessed the user may provide credentials. Alternatively a user need not identify himself to view electronic content stored publicly. Stored electronic content may be presented in the order in which it was stored for example displaying the first stored content at the top or bottom of a list. In one implementation participating content publishers may affect the presentation order of stored electronic content . For example an ad provider or advertiser may compensate the ECSS service provider in order to have its ad presented advantageously. Additionally the user may be enabled to sort his stored electronic content as he wishes such as by date saved title and the like.

The user may select stored electronic content to view it. Selecting stored electronic content may load the content per the stored data. The user need not log into or have access to the Web page where the content was originally displayed as pertinent information and or a content identifier has been recorded at ECSS server . Once the user accesses ECSS server ECSS server may serve as his access point to his stored content. The particulars of displaying stored electronic content may vary per implementation. Viewing interface may enable the presentation of the stored electronic content the user has chosen to view in various fashions. For example viewing interface may enable browser mechanism to present the selected electronic content as included in the ECSS interface or the selected electronic content may appear as within an ECSS framing screen.

As illustrated by in one embodiment the user may employ browser mechanism to access ECSS server to view stored electronic content step . Browser mechanism may receive computer code which may include the original server content code or code sufficiently similar step and may employ it to access the content server i.e. item server or ad server step . Browser mechanism may then receive the appropriate electronic content from the content server step and present the electronic content to the user step . In one scenario ECSS server may provide browser mechanism with the same content code used at the Web page from which the user stored the electronic content thereby functioning in a fashion similar to the originating Web page. For example the retrieved computer code may indicate the stored electronic content is provided by the Google ad server and the user s Web browser may access the Google ad server to retrieve it. A content identifier previously assigned to stored electronic content by content identification mechanism may be used to assist with this process. The computer code provided to browser mechanism may include the content identifier and browser mechanism may relay this to the content server so that the content server may employ it to locate the appropriate electronic content in its records.

As illustrated by in another embodiment when browser mechanism accesses ECSS server step it may receive computer code that instructs browser mechanism to access ECSS server itself step . When browser mechanism accesses ECSS server per this code step it may wait as ECSS server accesses the appropriate content server to retrieve the electronic content step . Once ECSS server has retrieved the necessary content browser mechanism may receive it step and present the electronic content to the user step . For example when browser mechanism accesses stored electronic content the received computer code e.g. HTML snippet data may include a link e.g. a URL to ECSS server rather than item server or ad server and ECSS server may then employ the computer code to determine the proper server from which to receive the electronic content. A content identifier may assist with this process as well. For example the computer code sent to browser mechanism from ECSS server may include the content identifier and ECSS server may employ this to determine the correct server. In one embodiment if the content server has also associated the content identifier with the electronic content in its own records ECSS server may relay the content identifier to the content server in order to assist in the retrieval of the necessary electronic content. In one scenario ECSS server only transmits the content identifier to the content server for electronic content retrieval. Because the electronic content passes through ECSS server ECSS server may be enabled to modify stored electronic content .

As illustrated by in another embodiment if stored electronic content includes all the necessary electronic content item server or ad server need not be accessed by browser mechanism or ECSS server . When browser mechanism accesses ECSS server step it may receive computer code that instructs browser mechanism to access ECSS server itself step . A content identifier may be used to assist in locating the proper stored electronic content. When browser mechanism accesses ECSS server per this code step browser mechanism may receive the electronic content step and present the electronic content to the user step . For example ECSS server may pregenerate the code e.g. HTML so that browser mechanism may display the electronic content based solely on the content it maintains.

In regard to stored electronic advertising content stored electronic ads may be optimized upon presentation to increase overall advertising effectiveness. As aforementioned because the request to view stored electronic content involves ECSS server ECSS server may be enabled to modify the stored electronic content when it is displayed. Ads from one advertising entity e.g. an ad provider or advertiser or from a set of advertising entities may be optimized such that each ad is more attractive to the user or the set of ads together are more attractive to the user. The advertising entity need not rely on ad server to enhance stored electronic content . For example if the user has stored an ad for a chair and an ad for a table ECSS server may retrieve and display a bonus ad for a set of dishes a table cloth or a discount for buying both the table and the chairs. ECSS server may display such ad combinations even if the ads are from different advertising entities. An advertising entity associated with an electronic ad may pay the ECSS service provider a fee so that an additional electronic ad is presented whenever a particular electronic ad is presented. If a second advertising entity is paying for this service the second advertising entity may request to have his electronic ad presented more prominently than the ad of the first advertising entity.

ECSS server may enable users to personalize electronic content in various manners. For example a user may be enabled to rate or rank the electronic content he or other users have stored or he may add comments. Stored electronic content may be associated with one or more categories. For example an electronic ad for beer may be categorized as beer drink and or alcohol or an electronic item pertaining to a digital camera may be categorized as photography electronics and or photographs. When a user accesses his user account his stored electronic content may be displayed as grouped by category. Content categorization may be handled by the content publisher the user an ECSS service provider categorization mechanism or a combination thereof. For example a content publisher may associate data with electronic content that indicates one or more proper ECSS categories. The user may log into his user account and categorize his stored electronic content as he wishes. For example a user may tag the stored beer ad as funny or beer or the stored digital camera item as birthday gift idea or Christmas present. Categorization mechanism may categorize electronic content based on information provided by content publishers and or users or it may analyze electronic content and categorize it appropriately.

ECSS server may interact with item server or ad server to enable proper tracking of stored electronic content . Because the electronic content managed via ECSS may be stored and accessed via ECSS server ECSS server may create a data trail that simple link sharing services cannot equate. ECSS server may log how many times a particular piece of electronic content has been saved when it was saved and details about the individual s who have saved it e.g. data stored in his user account how many times it was shared details about who it was shared with and the like. This information may be provided to participating content publishers providing them with valuable insight into their audience and into the performance of their electronic content. The user data made available to content publishers may range from broad generalized information to specific user characteristics. For example the ECSS service provider may only provide general user characteristics such as geographical region age range e.g. 30 35 gender or the like or may provide specific data such as name email address mailing address age or the like. The ECSS service provider may also enable full or limited access to a user s relationship record data. In regard to electronic ads ECSS server may enable tracking of click through rate and any associated payment e.g. royalties etc. . Tracking may be enabled by an accounting mechanism such as an API to which any item server or ad server from a participating network may connect.

Electronic ads may operate via various budgeting schemes and therefore specific accounting processes may be necessary in order to ensure accurate accounting of an electronic ad stored and or shared via ECSS . The accounting process employed may be associated with the method of electronic content storage and or display. If the presentation of stored electronic content is handled in a fashion similar to an electronic ad displayed at a Web page i.e. the electronic advertising content is retrieved from ad server as illustrated by ad server may treat the viewing of stored electronic content in the same manner as an ad presented on a standard Web page. If all of the data necessary for displaying stored electronic content has been stored at ECSS server as discussed in relation to browser mechanism may interface solely with ECSS server to display stored electronic content and therefore ECSS server may maintain a viewing log for stored electronic content and relay this viewing data to ad server instantly periodically or the like. If the display of stored electronic content requires ECSS server to serve as an intermediary between browser mechanism and ad sever as depicted by one or more of ECSS server and ad server may track the viewing of stored electronic content .

ECSS server may enable the analysis of stored electronic content in order to ascertain ad usage such as viewings e.g. impressions clicks etc. . In particular ECSS sever may determine which electronic ads have been stored and or shared but have not yet been viewed by the associated user s . As such ECSS server may provide a content publisher with data indicative of pending ad viewings. The content publisher may employ this data to determine how much interest there is in a particular electronic ad and whether his current budget for the electronic ad is sufficient. Unlike current processes the analysis of unviewed electronic ads provides a content publisher with concrete data reflective of how many individuals are interested in viewing its electronic ads. For example if an advertiser has allotted for 200 viewings of a particular electronic ad and the ad server indicates that the electronic ad has been viewed 95 times total via ECSS and perhaps other sources and the analysis of ECSS server indicates that its database has 150 potential viewings of the electronic ad the advertiser may ascertain that its budget might be exceeded by at least 45 viewings. The advertiser may then take appropriate action such as by increasing its budget for that electronic ad. If the advertiser does not wish to increase its budget to match demand the ad might be removed from ad server before certain users have had an opportunity to view it. In this case a user may be notified that the particular stored electronic content is no longer available. The user may be informed of this when he attempts to view the particular stored electronic content and or ECSS server may notify him via personal information held in his user account e.g. via an email sent to the user s registered email address .

Although a user may utilize ECSS simply for pleasure he may also be encouraged to participate through various incentive methods the particulars of which may be stored in one or more incentive records . In one scenario the user may register one or more financial accounts in association with his user account and may receive financial benefits. For example a content publisher such as an advertiser may compensate the user for displaying its electronic content advantageously on his ECSS display. Alternatively a content publisher may compensate the user when the user accepts a promotion provides information to the content publisher provides a recognized benefit to the content publisher or the like. ECSS may facilitate immediate and scheduled transactions using information stored in user account e.g. financial information personal information and or other information and the user may be compensated by receiving a monetary payment into a registered financial account. Alternatively the user may receive other benefits such as a discount on a product. A user also may employ a registered financial account for electronic commerce purchases as detailed below.

ECSS may enable the display and analysis of aggregate information. For example ECSS server may display to users and or content publishers aggregate statistics and information regarding electronic content stored for various groups of users or for all users. Aggregate information may also be used to affect how stored electronic content is displayed to users. For example electronic content may be displayed in order of popularity such as by the number of users who have stored it or the number of viewings. Additionally ECSS may enable incentives based on group decisions. In one scenario users may receive a discount or other special benefit if a certain number of users take a certain action. For example if a stored electronic ad pertains to a chair and if 10 000 chairs are purchased each user that has stored the relevant electronic ad may receive a 10 refund. The refund may be credited to a user s registered financial account. In such a scenario a user may have to indicate to the retailer that he is an ECSS user such as providing his ECSS user name or an ECSS membership number. The retailer may in turn relay this information to ECSS server which may then associate users that participated in the promotion. This data may be shared with content publishers so that they may analyze it.

ECSS server may enable users to search the electronic content that has been stored by other users. In one embodiment rather than rely on user activity content publishers may also store electronic content with ECSS server so that it may be searched. The user may access an ECSS Web page and enter a query into a search field to search for electronic content. Database may then be searched for any relevant stored electronic content such as by searching metadata such as comments categories e.g. tags descriptions or the like. In one scenario ECSS server is enabled to translate a search query into multiple languages thereby enabling it to search all stored electronic content regardless of the language associated with it. In addition to searching its own internal records ECSS server may query an external source such as item server or ad server . For example a user interested in leasing a vehicle may request ads that provide leasing discounts e.g. the user may search for a car lease discount . The user may then be presented with a result set listing any relevant electronic content that has been stored. ECSS server may also relay the query to ad server and or item server to determine if ad server or item server has any relevant electronic content stored within its records and if so ECSS server may retrieve the relevant electronic content and display it to the user.

Due to the benefits of the ability to request electronic content a user may be required to compensate the ECSS service provider other users e.g. those who stored the requested content or content publishers e.g. who issued the requested electronic content . A content publisher or the ECSS service provider may compensate a user for sharing electronic content.

ECSS may enable convenient electronic commerce e commerce . As aforementioned electronic content stored at ECSS server may include an electronic item such as a listing for a product. For example a user may store an Amazon.com book listing in association with his user account . A content publisher in this case being a commercial entity such as a vendor may enable one or more of its listings with an ECSS link thereby allowing ECSS server to develop a registry of its products. Each time a user stores one of the content publisher s products ECSS server adds one more instance of the product to database . This configuration allows the ECSS server to grow a registry of the content publisher s products based upon user action rather than publisher action. As aforementioned a content publisher may actively store electronic content such as a product listing with ECSS server . In one embodiment ECSS server may handle saved product listing electronic content differently from other forms of electronic content. For example once a product listing has been stored with ECSS server it may actively communicate with the appropriate item server to acquire further data regarding the product this may not be necessary if the content publisher stored the electronic content itself . Due to the nature of ECSS this configuration may enable the user to search product listings stored by an immense possibly global audience.

A user may search ECSS server for product listing electronic content. For example rather than a global search for Moby Dick which may produce results including literature reviews movie ads and product listings a user may specify his search for only products related to Moby Dick. The search results may include comments tags and the like that have been associated with the electronic content when other users stored it. For example a product search for Moby Dick may generate a search result from a particular user that stored the Borders.com product listing. The storing user may have commented on the stored product listing such as including notes regarding the price the edition of the book comments about the book itself etc. Metadata such as this may be maintained by ECSS server so that the user may review this in addition to any metadata contained with the electronic content itself e.g. metadata included with the product listing from its original source . Furthermore search results may indicate data about various elements of stored electronic content such as which product listings were stored the most which product listings were utilized for purchases the most and the like. Additionally ECSS server may provide a user with other relevant electronic content such as electronic ads and offers associated with the target product. ECSS server may also be configured to display a directory of participating vendors thereby allowing a user to determine which vendors have electronic content stored in database .

ECSS server may enable the purchase of a product included in a stored product listing. ECSS server may collect the necessary financial information and user information e.g. name and address or a user may have registered this information in his user account . ECSS server may send this information to the appropriate item server e.g. a vendor server to place the order for the product. The item server may provide order confirmation in a traditional method such as emailing it to the user or it may relay this information to ECSS server so that it may be stored in the appropriate user account . In one scenario ECSS server may enable a user to conduct multiple transactions at once. A user may select multiple products from various vendors for purchase and store them in an ECSS electronic shopping cart. When the user decides to conduct purchase the products in his ECSS cart he may indicate so to ECSS server and ECSS server may provide the necessary information to each appropriate item server .

By its configuration ECSS may enable a user to comparison shop for a product conveniently. For example a user may search ECSS server for a television receive stored product listings from multiple content publishers and review the product listings as well as associated content such as user comments electronic ads and the like. If an electronic ad includes a promotion such as a discount the user may apply it to his transaction when purchasing the product via ECSS .

In one scenario the ECSS server may serve as a payment enabler itself. The user may provide payment to the ECSS service provider which may in turn pay the participating vendor. This may be function on a per transaction basis or the ECSS service provider may provide periodic lump sum payments for transactions conducted via ECSS . For example the ECSS service provider may provide a weekly or monthly payment to a vendor for all relevant transactions that occurred during that time period.

As aforementioned although the present invention has been described mainly in terms of Internet usage this is not to be construed as limiting. For example ECSS may be employed via an interactive television system or mobile network. An ECSS icon may be displayed when a television program or ad is presented and the user may employ the select button on his television remote to store the electronic content to his user account . Alternatively without an ECSS icon another indicator or no indicator may be used. The user may later use the interactive television to access his user account and view the content. Within a mobile network the ECSS icon may be displayed graphically or as text and the user may select the icon or text for storage of the electronic content. Electronic content may have an audio indicator instead of or in addition to a visual icon. Voice commands may be used for interacting with the electronic content. For example the user may speak save content into a microphone to have the electronic content stored to his user account .

These and other aspects of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art by a review of the preceding detailed description. Although a number of salient features of the present invention have been described above the invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways that would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art after reading the disclosed invention. Therefore the description should not be considered to be exclusive of these other embodiments. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purposes of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

