---

title: Nanoparticle shuttle memory
abstract: A device for storing data using nanoparticle shuttle memory having a nanotube. The nanotube has a first end and a second end. A first electrode is electrically connected to the first end of the nanotube. A second electrode is electrically connected to the second end of the nanotube. The nanotube has an enclosed nanoparticle shuttle. A switched voltage source is electrically connected to the first electrode and the second electrode, whereby a voltage may be controllably applied across the nanotube. A resistance meter is also connected to the first electrode and the second electrode, whereby the electrical resistance across the nanotube can be determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08130569&OS=08130569&RS=08130569
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 08130569
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100427
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 05CH11231 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the University of California Berkeley.

The present invention relates to a method and device for long term data storage. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and device for long term data storage using nanoparticle shuttle memory.

The miniaturization of nonvolatile silicon based memory devices has revolutionized the creation access and exchange of digital information. There are tremendous benefits in continuing this miniaturization into the nanoscale. Unfortunately a general trend for memory storage independent of medium is decreasing lifetime with increasing memory density. For example stone carvings in the Karnak Temple in Luxor at an approximate density of 2 bits inare largely readable after 3 800 years while information written with individual atoms by scanning tunneling microscopy manipulation at a density of 100 Tbits inhas an estimated lifetime of only 10 ps at room temperature.

Conventional digital memory configurations in use today with densities on the order of 10 100 Gbits in have an estimated lifetime of only 10 30 years. Stored data is generally lost due to interaction between magnetic domains as well as material breakdown.

Interestingly the Domesday Book the great survey of England commissioned by William the Conqueror in 1086 and written on vellum has survived over 900 years while the 1986 BBC Domesday Project a multimedia survey marking the 900th anniversary of the original Book required migration from the original high density laserdiscs within two decades because of media failure.

A device for storing data using nanoparticle shuttle memory having a nanotube. The nanotube having a first end and a second end. A first electrode is electrically connected to the first end of the nanotube. Likewise a second electrode is electrically connected to the second end of the nanotube. The nanotube has an enclosed nanoparticle shuttle. A switched voltage source is electrically connected to the first electrode and the second electrode whereby a voltage may be controllably applied across the nanotube. A resistance meter is also connected to the first electrode and the second electrode whereby the electrical resistance across the nanotube can be determined.

In a preferred embodiment a plurality of nanotubes is used to store any number of bits of data. Preferably one or more resistance meters are each connected to a plurality of nanotubes via one or more read switches thereby decreasing the amount of resistance meters required by the system and therefore costs size and weight. Preferably one or more voltage sources are each connected to a plurality of nanotubes via one or more write switches thereby decreasing the amount of voltage sources required by the system and therefore costs size and weight.

A device for storing data using nanoparticle shuttle memory having a nanotube. The nanotube having a first end and a second end. A first electrode is electrically connected to the first end of the nanotube. Likewise a second electrode is electrically connected to the second end of the nanotube. The nanotube has an enclosed nanoparticle shuttle. A switched voltage source is electrically connected to the first electrode and the second electrode whereby a voltage may be controllably applied across the nanotube. A resistance meter is also connected to the first electrode and the second electrode whereby the electrical resistance across the nanotube can be determined.

Nanoscale Reversible Mass Transport for Archival Memory G. E. Begtrup W. Gannett T. D. Yuzvinsky V. H. Crespi and A. Zettl Nano Lett. 2009 9 5 1835 1838 hereby fully incorporated by reference describes on embodiment of Nanoparticle Shuttle Memory.

In a preferred embodiment a plurality of nanotubes is used to store any number of bits of data. Preferably one or more resistance meters are each connected to a plurality of nanotubes via one or more read switches thereby decreasing the amount of resistance meters required by the system and therefore costs size and weight. Preferably one or more voltage sources are each connected to a plurality of nanotubes via one or more write switches thereby decreasing the amount of voltage sources required by the system and therefore costs size and weight.

In one embodiment each bit is represented by a nanotube and each nanotube has a corresponding switched voltage source and resistance meter whereby each nanotube can be read written simultaneously. In an alternate embodiment a single switched voltage source and a single resistance meter is connected via a switches to each nanotube. For example in one embodiment a read switch is electrically connected to each nanotube and electrically connected to a resistance meter. Therefore at the direction of a control system the resistance of each nanotube may be read however only one at a time. Likewise a write switch is electrically connected to each nanotube and electrically connected to the switched voltage source. Therefore at the direction of a control system each nanotube may be written however only one at a time.

In an alternate embodiment a plurality of the nanotubes but not all the nanotubes is connected to a corresponding read switch. In this embodiment a plurality of nanotubes is simultaneously read in groups using a plurality of resistance meters and read switches. Likewise the plurality of the nanotubes but not all the nanotubes is connected to a corresponding write switch. In this embodiment the plurality of nanotubes is simultaneously written in groups using a one or more voltages sources and write switches. Preferably a single voltage source provides a suitable voltage for moving the nanoparticle shuttle and the write switches are used to provide the voltage on demand to the nanotube at the desired polarity thereby writing to the nanotube.

Preferably a multiple of 8 nanotubes 8 bits are selected by the read switch write switch or a combination thereof at once thereby taking advantage of existing system optimizations used by existing other memory technologies e.g. data transfer paging caching techniques . For example in one embodiment 8 nanotubes 8 bits are written at once using a voltage source connected to the 8 nanotubes via one or more write switches. In one embodiment 8 nanotubes 8 bits are and read at once using 8 resistance meters each connected via one or more read switches. Alternately any number of bits may be read or written at once using any number of write switches or read switches.

Preferably a control system controls the read and writes operations of one or more nanotubes. Preferably the control system comprises a microcontroller ASIC Application Specific Microcontroller or a combination thereof. Preferably the control system acts as a memory control for integration into existing computing systems.

The nanotube is any nanotube preferably a multiwall or single wall electrically conducting nanotube comprised of carbon or of BxCyNz alloy or of transition metal dichalcogenide for example MoSor TaS. Preferably the nanotube has an inner diameter from 0.5 nm to 100 nm and a length greater than and including 5 nm. Preferably the nanotube has an inner diameter from 0.5 nm to 100 nm and a length from 5 nm to 1 mm. Preferably the nanotube is created by arc discharge laser ablation high pressure carbon monoxide HiPCO chemical vapor deposition CVD or any other means. In one embodiment the nanotube is constructed by the method described in B. C. Satishkumar A. Govindaraj C. N. R. Rao Bundles of aligned carbon nanotubes obtained by the pyrolysis of ferrocene hydrocarbon mixtures role of the metal nanoparticles produced in situ Chemical Physics Letters Volume 307 Issues 3 4 2 Jul. 1999 Pages 158 162 ISSN 0009 2614 DOI 10.1016 S0009 2614 99 00521 7 hereby fully incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment a nanotube having an enclosed iron nanoparticle was fabricated in a single step via pyrolysis of ferrocene in argon at 1000 C. The nanotube was then ultrasonically dispersed in isopropanol and deposited onto a substrate. For diagnostic purposes a custom fabricated silicon nitride membrane compatible with transmission electron microscopy TEM was used as a substrate. In the alternative any rigid structure may be used as a substrate for example silicon steel plastics etc. The device was created in one lithographic step. The first electrode and second electrodes were both pattered and 100 nm of palladium was deposited and lifted off in acetone. The planar devices on the substrate were then mounted inside a TEM biasing staging allowing for high resolution imagining in real time during device operation.

The enclosed nanoparticle shuttle is a nanoparticle preferably having a size less than a micrometer. Preferably the nanoparticle shuttle comprises transition metals including Fe V Nb Ta Ti Hf Zr Co and In Ga liquid or molten state and oxides including Fe O Zr O Hf O Al O and alkali halides including KCI RbCI and NaCI or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment the nanoparticle shuttle is made of iron. Preferably the nanoparticle shuttle is constructed with the nanotube for example by using the method described in by the method described in B. C. Satishkumar A. Govindaraj C. N. R. Rao Bundles of aligned carbon nanotubes obtained by the pyrolysis of ferrocene hydrocarbon mixtures role of the metal nanoparticles produced in situ Chemical Physics Letters Volume 307 Issues 3 4 2 Jul. 1999 Pages 158 162 ISSN 0009 2614 DOI 10.1016 S0009 2614 99 00521 7 hereby fully incorporated by reference.

The First Electrode and the Second Electrode are both made of one or more electrically conducting materials. In one embodiment the First Electrode and the Second Electrode are both simply the connection of the one or more wires to the nanotube and the respective components e.g. the switching voltage source and the resistance meter . However due to the small size of the nanotube preferably the First Electrode and the Second Electrode are both electrically conductive materials on the first end and second end of the nanotube respectively. In a preferred embodiment the First Electrode and the Second Electrode are both made of a metal for example but not limited to Zinc Molybdenum Cadmium Titanium Chromium Manganese Iron Cobalt Nickel Copper Rhodium Palladium Silver Tungsten Platinum Gold Mercury or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment the First Electrode and the Second Electrode are both made of palladium.

The switching voltage source is any voltage supply means capable of producing a voltage high enough to move the nanoparticle shuttle within the nanotube when desired. In one embodiment the switching voltage source is a batter or a power supply connected to an electrical power grid.

In one embodiment the switching voltage source comprises a voltage supply source and a switch whereby the voltage supply source supplies a constant voltage and is electrically connected to the first electrode and the second electrode by one or more switches which allow a voltage to produced across the nanotube at either polarity.

Preferably the switching voltage source is controlled to a control system. In one embodiment a constant supply source supplies power to an integrated circuit ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or a microcontroller which selectably produces a signal for a time period. For example in one embodiment a square wave is sent across the first electrode and the second electrode providing a voltage of at least 1.5 volts for about 5 seconds. Preferably the voltage is selected based upon the nanoparticle shuttle material and size as well as any resistance to movement by the nanotube e.g. friction . Preferably the time period of the supplied voltage is selected based upon the length of the nanotube and the speed of the nanoparticle based upon the voltage supplied .

For embodiments having a plurality of nanotubes a single voltage source preferably provides a suitable voltage for moving a nanoparticle shuttle and write switches are used to provide the voltage on demand to the nanotube at the desired polarity thereby writing to a nanotube. A switch allows a single voltage source to controllably supply a voltage to a plurality of nanotubes simultaneous or nonconcurrently . In a preferred embodiment each nanotube has a corresponding one or more switches which allow each nanotube to be controllably connected to the desired polarity of the voltage source. In another embodiment each nanotube is connected to one or more multiplexing switches thereby allowing each nanotube to be controllably connected to the desired polarity of the voltage source.

The write switch is preferably any electrical or mechanical means of switching for example relays BJTs MOSFETs Solid State Relays etc.

The electrical resistance meter measures the electrical resistance across the first electrode and the second electrode of the nanotube . The electrical resistance meter produces a voltage current less than the switching voltage source whereby the state of the nanoparticle shuttle is not altered by the electrical resistance meter .

In a preferred embodiment the electrical resistance meter is a connected to one or more electrical resistors in series to a voltage source producing a known voltage as a voltage divider. The electrical resistance of the nanotube and the other resistors connected in series is then directly proportional to their respective voltages. As the voltage can be determined or measured and the resistance of the components except for the nanotube can be predetermined the resistance of the nanotube can therefore be determined.

For example if a single resistor is electrically connected in series with the nanotube then the resistance of the nanotube can be determined as Eq. 1 where Ris the resistance of the single resistor Vis the voltage across the single resistor and Vis the voltage across the nanotube measured by the voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode and Ris the resistance of the nanotube directly related to the position of the nanoparticle shuttle . If the voltage V of the voltage source is known then the equation can be simplified by using the voltage of the source and the voltage V determined across the nanotube as shown in Eq. 2 to calculate Eq. 3 

For embodiments having a plurality of nanotubes each nanotube preferably has a corresponding one or more read switches which allow each nanotube to be controllably connected to one or more electrical resistance meters . Preferably each nanotube is connected to one or more multiplexing switches thereby allowing each nanotube to be controllably connected to electrical resistance meter .

The read switch is preferably any electrical or mechanical means of switching for example relays BJTs MOSFETs Solid State Relays etc.

The one or more wires are any electrically conducting means of connecting the various components. Preferably the one or more wires are one or more metal wires.

The speed of the enclosed nanoparticle shuttle can be tuned over several orders of magnitude by varying the applied bias voltage V as shown in . depicts the speed of the nanotube shuttle versus the voltage supplied between the first electrode and the second electrode across the nanotube . Just beyond a threshold for the onset of motion at V 1.55 V the nanoparticle shuttle moved at a rate of 1 nm s on the order of the speed of slow continental drift while at 1.75 V the highest bias applied to this device the nanoparticle shuttle moved at 1.4 m s comparable to the speed of the motor protein myosin. In other embodiments it was observed that the nanoparticle shuttle velocity can be increased by at least 4 orders of magnitude beyond this exceeding 2.5 cm s the maximum speed detectable at high magnification due to the frame rate of the TEM video camera used during experimentation. The true top speed could be considerably higher. In addition to continuously translating the nanoparticle shuttle the nanoparticle shuttle motion can be precisely stepped . Application of a short 20 ns voltage pulse on the order of 2V causes the nanoparticle shuttle to translate 3 nm.

Successive pulses induce successive translations analogous to but an order of magnitude more precise than the walking motion of myosin VI which moved in 36 nm steps along an actin filament. The combination of static biasing and pulsing allows precision control of the nanoparticle shuttle position from the microscale to the nanoscale. The nanoparticle shuttle motion was dictated strictly by the applied dc bias irrespective of the presence or absence of the TEM imaging electron beam.

The different nanoparticle shuttle position states as shown in and clearly serve as digital memory. If the position left of image center is defined as 0 as shown in and right of image center is defined as 1 as shown in then a desired logic state can be written by application of a voltage pulse of suitable polarity and sufficient duration which physically positions the nanoparticle shuttle . Preferably the control system is either preprogrammed with the resistance measurements for two or more positions e.g. and or a control system determines two or more positions dynamically. For example the control system could supply various voltages across said nanotube and read out the resulting electrical resistance across said nanotube verifying stability. However for constancy of data optimal states are determined and preprogrammed in the control system.

While interesting from a diagnostic point of view using TEM to read out the state of the device is clearly impractical. Most desirable would be a simple two terminal electrical readout using the first electrode and the second electrode . It was determined that the axial electrical resistance of the nanotube measured by the resistance meter is sensitive to the physical location of the nanoparticle shuttle .

In shows the nanotube resistance R as the nanoparticle shuttle is continuously repositioned. Although some noise is apparent demonstrates that R tracks the TEM determined position coordinate remarkably well. With the discrimination similar to that used for TEM positioning the logic states are thus faithfully read out from blind resistance measurements by the resistance meter alone.

Importantly probing the state of the system via small voltage pulses is nonperturbative and does not alter the nanoparticle shuttle position hence the memory electrical readout is nondestructive. This is demonstrated in where the states 101010 have been sequentially written to the device and read out in succession four times for each written state.

Both the TEM determined position state and the resistively determined state are in agreement with no state destruction cause by readout. Due to the two terminal configuration such memory devices could be scaled to produce memory densities 1 Tbit in greater than current state of the art hard drive storage with memory density 200 Gbit in. The shuttle memory density could be increased by another order of magnitude or more by applying multiple thresholds to store many states per device.

The unique geometry afforded by the nanoparticle shuttle naturally yields a hermetically sealed system immune to environmental contamination. Therefore the information in the shuttle memory is only compromised if the nanoparticle shuttle moves.

The readout mechanism is tied to the electrical resistance of the nanotube which is itself a subject of much speculation and controversy. Experimentation demonstrated that the nanoparticle shuttle despite residing entirely within the core of the nanotube serves as a position dependent scattering center. In a model of on tube transport with intershell coupling the nanoparticle shuttle could locally alter intershell coupling as well as influence quantum interference of electron wave functions along the tube. If the electronic transport is diffusive the system may be in part modeled as regions of materials with different resistivities. Position dependence in the total resistance could then come from spatial variations in the resistivity of the nanotube caused by defects or simply by geometric effects. If the transport is in the ballistic regime over limited segments local resistance changes could be due to electron resonance effects.

Irrespective of the details of the electron conduction mechanism along the nanotube it was modeled the transport of the nanoparticle shuttle under electromigration occurred within a biased sawtooth potential with thermally activated hops between local minima separated by a distance L assuming rapid equilibration within each local minimum. The unbiased i.e. V 0 barrier between minima is E the attempt rate is the voltage across the nanotube is V. The length of the nanotube is D so V D is the average electric field. The nanoparticle shuttle speed is then Eq. 4 V Le Eq. 3 where the effective charge Qmeasures the strength of the coupling between the nanoparticle shuttle and the external electric field. Since Qembodies not just the direct coupling of charge to the local electric field but also any effect of charge carrier scattering events it cannot be directly identified with the total charge on the nanoparticle shuttle . For structurally well ordered nanotube walls the order of magnitude distance L for a rigid nanoparticle shuttle is bounded below by the body center cubic bcc iron or graphenic lattice constant both on the order of 2 since this sets the repeat distance for axial achiral or helical chiral motions.

For less ordered nanotubes wherein motion of nanoparticle shuttle is pinned at structural imperfections the characteristic step distance would be set by the separation between pinning sites the ability experimentally to reduce the step size to 3 nm sets an upper limit on the importance of such disorder. Finally depending on the elastic relaxation of the nanoparticle shuttle hopping events may involve motions of Frenkel Kontorova domain walls that are internal to the nanoparticle shuttle . The observed exponential dependence of the speed on the applied voltage shown in d logV dV 30 V sets QL D 1.5 electron charges independent of E or kT . The attempt rate w estimated from the center of mass vibration of the nanoparticle shuttle s is smaller than is typical for molecular scale hopping 10s since the nanoparticle shuttle is much heavier. However the dependence of the barrier height on the attempt rate and the step length is only logarithmic.

The interface between a well ordered nanotube inner wall and an incommensurate crystalline nanoparticle shuttle Fe in experiments is expected to be relatively smooth as required to obtain electromigratory motion at realistic currents but nevertheless kinetic barriers against stick slip motion can be large compared to room temperature thermal energies as demonstrated by the lack of observable motion in the undriven system. Making a conservative assumption of room temperature operation within the TEM the measured nanoparticle shuttle speeds place a lower bound of E 1.5 1.7 eV on the barrier height. Additional mechanisms for surmounting the kinetic barrier against motion such as athermal fluctuations caused by electron scattering events or a rapid ballistic passage over multiple successive barriers under electromigration would tend to increase the estimate for the barrier size and hence further stabilize the undriven system against purely thermal diffusive wandering. The precise value of the barrier and the resulting nanoparticle shuttle speeds may be sensitive to detailed structural parameters such as the wrapping indices of the inner wall and the orientation of the lattice with respect to the axis of the nanotube .

To determine the lifetime of the memory device we consider the motion of the nanoparticle shuttle at room temperature and zero bias over an appreciable enough distance to cause loss of information here 200 nm . The estimated barrier then yields a room temperature dwell time greater than 3.3 10s. Although truly archival storage is a global property of an entire memory system the first inescapable requirement for such a system is that the underlying mechanism of information storage for individual bits must exhibit a persistence time much longer than the envisioned lifetime of the resulting device. A single bit lifetime in excess of a billion years demonstrates that this system has the potential to store information stably for any practical desired archival time scale. Thus nanoscale electromechanical memory devices such as those described here present a new solution to ultrahigh density archival data storage.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

