---

title: Soluble analyte detection and amplification
abstract: The present invention relates to a method of detection of a compound of interest that is present at low levels in a sample. In particular, the present invention relates to a method of detection of a compound of interest in solution by a nucleic acid-labelled binding construct, separation of the unbound nucleic acid-labelled binding construct, and the detection of the bound nucleic acid-labelled binding construct in the solution phase. The present invention is particularly adaptable to be used in conjunction with a nucleic acid amplification reaction for detecting the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of binding construct in a sample indicating the presence or absence of the compound of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09181579&OS=09181579&RS=09181579
owner: RESTALYST PTE LTD
number: 09181579
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20100212
---
The present application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 880 221 filed Jul. 19 2007 entitled Soluble Analyte Detection and Amplification now abandoned which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 653 321 filed Sep. 2 2003 entitled Soluble Analyte Detection and Amplification now U.S. Pat. No. 7 341 837 the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates generally to the field of compound detection and particularly to methods for compound detection and a kit for compound detection.

The detection of immune responses to pathological organisms or the detection of pathogen related proteins or other antigens in the serum of patients has benefited greatly from immunoassay development over the last 15 years. In one form of immunoassay monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies that recognize the immunoglobulins of another species are used. These reagents known as anti species antibodies are labelled typically with a fluorochrome or enzyme and used to detect antigen binding by immunoglobulins found in immune serum. In another form of immunoassay known as the sandwich assay antibodies directed against pathogen proteins are used to capture antigen from for example patients serum or cerebrospinal fluid CSF that is then detected by the binding of another labelled antibody directed against the same antigen. All of these assays however are limited by the sensitivity of detection of the bound immunoglobulin and require fairly large concentrations on a molar basis of labelled reagent.

More recent assays utilize nucleic acid amplification methods such as the polymerase chain reaction PCR for DNA amplification to detect very low levels of nucleic acid. Nucleic acid amplification methods can allow the detection of pathological agents in serum or in the environment at levels well below that of immunoassay detection. Such techniques however are often very sensitive to contamination from the environment and require prior knowledge of the nucleic acid sequence of interest in order to identify a portion of the nucleic acid and amplify it for detection. Nucleic acid amplification requires that there be nucleic acid present to amplify and detect and is therefore of no or limited utility when the compound of interest is a protein carbohydrate or other non nucleic acid molecule. Further improvements in the effectiveness and sensitivity of compound detection in a sample are desirable and the present invention addresses the existing problems and provides related benefits.

Throughout this application various publications are referenced. The disclosures of these publications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety in this application. Citations of these documents are not intended as an admission that any of them are pertinent prior art. All statements as to the date or representation as to the contents of these documents is based on the information available to the applicant and does not constitute any admission as to the correctness of the dates or contents of these documents.

The present invention relates to a method of detection of a compound of interest that can be present at low levels in a sample. In particular the present invention relates to a method of detection of a compound of interest in solution by a nucleic acid labelled binding construct that binds the compound of interest separation of the unbound nucleic acid labelled binding construct and the detection of the bound nucleic acid labelled binding construct in the solution phase. The present invention is particularly adaptable to be used in conjunction with a nucleic acid amplification method for detecting the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct in a sample thus indicating the presence or absence of the compound of interest.

The present invention recognizes that compound detection methods can be made more sensitive and thereby more effective by separation from the solution any excess or unbound binding construct that is not bound to the compound of interest thus increasing the proportion of true positive signal to false positive signal. The present invention further provides a versatile detection system that does not require solid phase capture or detection of the compound of interest. Where the compound of interest includes a non nucleic acid molecule such as a peptide or protein a method of the present invention further provides the advantage of not requiring prior knowledge of the nucleic acid sequence encoding the peptide or protein of interest in order to identify it and to use DNA amplification for its detection.

A first aspect of the present invention is a method for detecting a compound of interest in a sample including the use of a binding construct. The binding construct includes a recognition portion which recognizes and binds the compound of interest and a nucleic acid portion. When the binding construct is mixed with the sample the recognition portion binds with the compound of interest and forms construct compound complexes. The present invention also includes surfaces bearing one or more accessible binding targets capable of binding to the recognition portion of the binding construct. When the surfaces are contacted with the mixture of the sample and binding construct the accessible binding targets of the surfaces bind with any excess or unbound binding construct to form construct surface complexes. After sufficient incubation the construct surface complexes and any unbound or excess surfaces are separated from the mixture leaving behind the construct compound complexes in solution. After separation the solution is analysed in order to detect the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct wherein the presence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct indicates the presence of the compound of interest in the sample.

A second aspect of the present invention is a method for increasing the sensitivity of solution phase detection of a compound of interest in a sample. The method includes providing a sample suspected of containing the compound of interest providing a binding construct including a recognition portion capable of binding the compound of interest and a nucleic acid portion and contacting the sample with the binding construct for a period of time sufficient to permit the recognition portion to bind any compound of interest in the sample thus forming construct compound complexes in solution. The method further includes providing one or more surfaces that bears one or more accessible binding target capable of binding to the recognition portion and contacting the surface with the solution for a period of time sufficient for the accessible binding target to bind the recognition portion of any binding construct not bound to the compound of interest thereby forming construct surface complexes. The construct surface complexes are separated from the solution leaving the construct compound complexes in the solution. The presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct is detected in the solution. The separation of the construct surface complexes from the solution results in a separation of substantially all binding constructs not bound to a compound of interest and in an increased sensitivity of detection of the compound of interest and the presence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct indicates the presence of the compound of interest in the sample.

A third aspect of the present invention is a kit for detecting a compound of interest including a binding construct comprising a recognition portion which recognizes and binds the compound of interest and a nucleic acid portion. The kit of the present invention also includes one or more surfaces bearing one or more accessible binding targets capable of binding to the recognition portion of the binding construct. The kit of the present invention can also optionally include a nucleic acid amplification primer pair wherein each primer of the primer pair hybridizes to its complementary sequence at the 3 end of a target nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct.

The present invention recognizes that compound detection methods can be made more sensitive and thereby more effective by increasing the proportion of true positive signal to false positive signal . The present invention further recognizes the versatility of a detection system that does not require solid phase detection of the compound of interest and further recognizes the desirability of benefiting from signal amplification methods such as nucleic acid amplification even in the detection of a compound of interest that does not include a nucleic acid.

As a non limiting introduction to the breadth of the present invention the present invention includes several general and useful aspects including 

The present invention relates to a sensitive method for the detection of a compound of interest present in a sample such as a biological fluid a biological extract or an environmental sample by means of a nucleic acid labelled binding construct which is capable of recognizing and binding the compound of interest. This compound detection method is called soluble analyte detection and amplification. The present invention provides a method for detection of a compound of interest that is particularly adaptable for use with samples wherein the compound of interest is present in the sample in low levels. Sensitivity can be defined as the proportion of true positives detected by a system designed to discriminate between two categories known conventionally as positive and negative. The present invention provides enhanced detection sensitivity because it is possible to provide even excess amounts of the binding construct and then separate from the sample any unbound that is to say not bound to a compound of interest or excess binding construct detection of which would lead to a false positive signal thus leaving in solution only the binding construct that is bound to a compound of interest in a construct compound complex available for detection as a true positive signal. Thus detection sensitivity is proportional to the efficiency of separation of unbound or excess binding construct from the solution. The present invention is also generally more versatile because detection occurs in the solution phase and is not restricted to solid phase detection. Furthermore only one binding entity the binding construct is required to recognize and bind the compound of interest thus avoiding the problems associated with methods using two binding entities for example the problems of steric hindrance or potential loss of sensitivity from conformational changes induced by the binding of a first antibody such as may occur for example in a two antibody sandwich assay.

Further objectives and advantages of the present invention will become apparent as the description proceeds and when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. To gain a full appreciation of the scope of the present invention it will be further recognized that various aspects of the present invention can be combined to make desirable embodiments of the invention.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Generally the nomenclature used herein and the manufacture or laboratory procedures described below are well known and commonly employed in the art. The technical terms used herein have their ordinary meaning in the art that they are used as exemplified by a variety of technical dictionaries. Where a term is provided in the singular the inventor also contemplates the plural of that term. The nomenclature used herein and the procedures described below are those well known and commonly employed in the art. Where there are discrepancies in terms and definitions used in references that are incorporated by reference the terms used in this application shall have the definitions given herein. Other technical terms used herein have their ordinary meaning in the art that they are used as exemplified by a variety of technical dictionaries for example Chambers Dictionary of Science and Technology Peter M. B. Walker editor Chambers Harrap Publishers Ltd. Edinburgh UK 1999 1325 pp. . The inventors do not intend to be limited to a mechanism or mode of action. Reference thereto is provided for illustrative purposes only.

The first method of the present invention includes a sensitive method for detection of a compound of interest in a sample that is capable of detecting the presence of very low quantities of the compound of interest in the sample. The first method of the present invention involves the recognition of a compound of interest by a nucleic acid labelled binding construct separation of the unbound nucleic acid labelled binding construct by means of one or more surfaces bearing one or more binding targets and detecting in solution the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct wherein the presence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct indicates the presence of the compound of interest in the sample. The sample suspected of containing the compound of interest may be for example of entirely natural origin of entirely non natural origin such as of synthetic origin or a combination of natural and non natural origins. The sample may include whole cells tissues organs biological fluids extracts or environmental samples.

The first method of the present invention includes use of a binding construct. The binding constructs are mixed with the sample allowing the recognition portion of the binding construct to bind to the compound of interest to form construct compound complexes in solution.

The binding construct includes a recognition portion that can recognize and bind to the compound of interest and a nucleic acid portion. The recognition portion can include virtually any molecule or combination of molecules capable of recognizing and binding the compound of interest. Such recognition portions can include without limitation peptides polypeptides antibodies Fab fragments nucleic acids nucleic acid mimics cell surface antigens carbohydrates or combination thereof. In one embodiment the recognition portion includes an antibody natural modified or recombinant or an antibody fragment such as an Fab fragment or single chain antibody variable region fragment . In other embodiments the recognition portion can be an antigen that binds an antibody an aptamer that binds a target such as a peptide or small molecule or a receptor that binds a ligand. In one preferred embodiment the recognition portion binds monovalently to the compound of interest. In another preferred embodiment the recognition portion binds multivalently for example bivalently and optionally bispecifically to the compound of interest.

The nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can include any nucleic acid or nucleic acid mimic that is capable of being detected. The nucleic acid that is used as the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can include any type of nucleic acid for example DNA or RNA or a nucleic acid mimic such as but not limited to a peptide nucleic acid or a combination thereof. The nucleic acid of the invention can be single stranded or double stranded. In one preferred embodiment the binding construct of the present invention includes a nucleic acid portion wherein the sequence of the nucleic acid portion does not include a sequence that is expected to be found in the sample and can thereby be reasonably expected to be less easily contaminated by nucleic acid sequences in the sample but is however designed so as to be easily detectable. The nucleic acid portion is preferably sufficiently long enough to be easily detectable by the detection method chosen.

The recognition portion can be attached to the nucleic acid portion by any method covalently or non covalently directly or indirectly and it will depend on the nature of a given recognition portion. Non covalent attachment methods include but are not limited to physical adsorption electrostatic forces ionic interactions hydrogen bonding hydrophilic hydrophobic interactions van der Waals forces and magnetic forces. Where desired for example when increased flexibility is needed a recognition portion may be indirectly affixed to the nucleic acid portion using a spacer arm. Preferably the recognition portion is attached to the nucleic acid portion via covalent linkage or via a high affinity non covalent interaction such as that of biotin and avidin.

The first method of the present invention includes the use of one or more surfaces that bears one or more accessible binding targets that are known to be recognized by and bind to the recognition portion of the binding construct. Such surfaces can be any particle capable of being separated from a liquid sample or such surfaces may be non particulate surfaces such as planar or non planar surfaces or a combination thereof. The surfaces can be optionally enclosed for example in a chamber. The binding targets can include any target capable of being recognized by and binding to the recognition portion of the binding construct for example peptide mimotopes or epitope mimetics for antibody variable regions whole or partial antigen nucleic acids or sugar moieties. The accessible binding target can be attached to the surface by any method and it will depend on the nature of a given surface and binding target.

When the surfaces are introduced to the mixture of the sample and binding construct after sufficient incubation the accessible binding targets of the surfaces bind any unbound recognition portions of the binding construct forming construct surface complexes. The construct surface and any excess unbound surfaces are then separated from the construct compound complexes in solution in the sample by methods suitable to the type of surface used for example a magnet to separate magnetic particles decanting from a planar surface or separation by pressure or vacuum centrifugation or filtration. Alternatively any binding construct not bound to a compound of interest in a construct compound complex can be separated from solution by methods such as but not limited to precipitation salting out size exclusion or filtration extraction or phase separation.

After the separation step by detecting the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct the presence or absence of the compound of interest in the sample is determined. The presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can be detected by any method that is capable of detecting the presence or absence of nucleic acid for example enzymatic amplification hybridization or detection of a label. In one embodiment of the present invention the method can be preferably adapted to detect the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct by amplification of the nucleic acid portion for example by means of a polymerase chain reaction with appropriate primers. In this embodiment only a few and at least only one construct compound complex needs to serve as a template for nucleic acid amplification. The amplified nucleic acid can be measured or detected by any suitable method for example using labelled oligonucleotides or by detecting appropriate bands on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.

In one embodiment of the present invention the sample to be analyzed may contain two or more compounds of interest. In order to detect two or more different compounds of interest in a sample two or more different types of binding constructs each having a different recognition portion capable of recognizing a different compound are provided. Each type of binding construct includes a nucleic acid portion unique to the type in order to detect the presence or absence of two or more compounds of interest in the sample.

The second method of the present invention includes a method for increasing the sensitivity of solution phase detection of a compound of interest. The method is especially suitable for samples that are suspected to contain a low concentration or low quantities of the compound of interest.

The second method of the present invention includes the steps of providing a sample suspected of containing the compound of interest providing a binding construct that includes a recognition portion capable of binding the compound of interest and a nucleic acid portion contacting the sample with the binding construct for a period of time sufficient to permit the recognition portion to bind any compound of interest in the sample thus forming construct compound complexes in solution providing one or more surfaces that bears one or more accessible binding target capable of binding to the recognition portion contacting the surface with the solution for a period of time sufficient for the accessible binding target to bind the recognition portion of any binding construct not bound to the compound of interest thereby forming construct surface complexes separating the construct surface complexes from the solution leaving the construct compound complexes in the solution and detecting the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct in the solution wherein the separation of the construct surface complexes from the solution results in a separation of substantially all binding constructs not bound to a compound of interest and in an increased sensitivity of detection of the compound of interest and wherein the presence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct indicates the presence of the compound of interest in the sample.

The second method of the present invention includes the steps of providing a sample suspected of containing a compound of interest and providing a binding construct. The sample suspected of containing the compound of interest may be for example of entirely natural origin of entirely non natural origin such as of synthetic origin or a combination of natural and non natural origins. The sample may include whole cells tissues organs biological fluids extracts or environmental samples. The binding construct includes a recognition portion that can recognize and bind to the compound of interest and a nucleic acid portion. The sample is contacted with the binding construct for a period of time sufficient to permit the recognition portion of the binding construct to bind the compound of interest and form a construct compound complex in solution.

The recognition portion of the binding construct can include virtually any molecule or combination of molecules capable of recognizing and binding the compound of interest. Such recognition portions can include without limitation peptides polypeptides antibodies Fab fragments nucleic acids nucleic acid mimics cell surface antigens carbohydrates or combination thereof. In one embodiment the recognition portion includes an antibody natural modified or recombinant or an antibody fragment such as an Fab fragment or single chain antibody variable region fragment . In other embodiments the recognition portion can be an antigen that binds an antibody an aptamer that binds a target such as a peptide or small molecule or a receptor that binds a ligand. In one preferred embodiment the recognition portion binds monovalently to the compound of interest. In another preferred embodiment the recognition portion binds multivalently for example bivalently and optionally bispecifically to the compound of interest.

The nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can include any nucleic acid or nucleic acid mimic that is capable of being detected. The nucleic acid that is used as the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can include any type of nucleic acid for example DNA or RNA or a nucleic acid mimic such as but not limited to a peptide nucleic acid or a combination thereof. The nucleic acid of the invention can be single stranded or double stranded. In one preferred embodiment the binding construct of the present invention includes a nucleic acid portion wherein the sequence of the nucleic acid portion does not include a sequence that is expected to be found in the sample and can thereby be reasonably expected to be less easily contaminated by nucleic acid sequences in the sample but is however designed so as to be easily detectable. The nucleic acid portion is preferably sufficiently long enough to be easily detectable by the detection method chosen.

The recognition portion can be attached to the nucleic acid portion by any method covalently or non covalently directly or indirectly and it will depend on the nature of a given recognition portion. Non covalent attachment methods include but are not limited to physical adsorption electrostatic forces ionic interactions hydrogen bonding hydrophilic hydrophobic interactions van der Waals forces and magnetic forces. Where desired for example when increased flexibility is needed a recognition portion may be indirectly affixed to the nucleic acid portion using a spacer arm. Preferably the recognition portion is attached to the nucleic acid portion via covalent linkage or via a high affinity non covalent interaction such as that of biotin and avidin.

The second method of the present invention includes providing one or more surfaces bearing one or more accessible binding targets that are known to be recognized by and bind to the recognition portion of the binding construct. Such surfaces can be any particle capable of being separated from a liquid sample or such surfaces may be non particulate surfaces such as planar or non planar surfaces or a combination thereof. The surfaces can be optionally enclosed for example enclosed in a chamber. The binding targets can include any target capable of being recognized by and binding to the recognition portion of the binding construct for example peptide mimotopes or epitope mimetics for antibody variable regions whole or partial antigen nucleic acids or sugar moieties. The accessible binding target can be attached to the surface by any method and it will depend on the nature of a given surface and binding target.

The surfaces are contacted with the solution for a period of time sufficient for the accessible binding target to bind the recognition portion of any binding construct not bound to a compound of interest thus forming construct surface complexes. The construct surface complexes and any excess unbound surfaces are separated from the solution leaving behind the construct compound complexes. Separation may be by any method suitable to the type of surface used for example a magnet to separate magnetic particles decanting from a planar surface or separation by pressure or vacuum centrifugation or filtration. Alternatively any binding construct not bound to a compound of interest in a construct compound complex can be separated from solution by methods such as but not limited to precipitation salting out size exclusion or filtration extraction or phase separation. Separation of the construct surface complexes and any excess unbound surfaces results in a separation of substantially all binding constructs not bound to a compound of interest. Most preferably all binding constructs not bound to a compound of interest are separated from solution. Separation of the construct surface complexes and any excess unbound surfaces results in a decrease in false positive signal generated by binding complexes not bound to a compound of interest and thus in an increased sensitivity of detection of the compound of interest relative to an assay wherein unbound or excess binding constructs is not separated.

After the separation step by detecting the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct the presence or absence of the compound of interest in the sample is determined. The presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can be detected by any method that is capable of detecting the presence or absence of nucleic acid for example enzymatic amplification hybridization or detection of a label. In one embodiment of the present invention the method can be preferably adapted to detect the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct by amplification of the nucleic acid portion for example by means of a polymerase chain reaction with appropriate primers. In this embodiment only a few and at least only one construct compound complex needs to serve as a template for nucleic acid amplification. The amplified nucleic acid can be measured or detected by any suitable method for example using labelled oligonucleotides or by detecting appropriate bands on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.

In one embodiment of the present invention the sample to be analyzed may contain two or more compounds of interest. In order to detect two or more different compounds of interest in a sample two or more different types of binding constructs each having a different recognition portion capable of recognizing a different compound are provided. Each type of binding construct includes a nucleic acid portion unique to the type in order to detect the presence or absence of two or more compounds of interest in the sample.

The present invention also includes a kit used for the detection of a compound of interest in a sample that is capable of detecting the presence of very low quantities of the compound of interest in the sample.

The kit of the present invention includes a binding construct. The binding construct includes a recognition portion that can recognize and bind to the compound of interest and a nucleic acid portion. The recognition portion can include virtually any molecule or combination of molecules capable of recognizing and binding the compound of interest. Such recognition portions can include without limitation peptides polypeptides antibodies Fab fragments nucleic acids nucleic acid mimics cell surface antigens carbohydrates or combination thereof. In one embodiment the recognition portion includes an antibody natural modified or recombinant or an antibody fragment such as an Fab fragment or single chain antibody variable region fragment . In other embodiments the recognition portion can be an antigen that binds an antibody an aptamer that binds a target such as a peptide or small molecule or a receptor that binds a ligand. In one preferred embodiment the recognition portion binds monovalently to the compound of interest. In another preferred embodiment the recognition portion binds multivalently for example bivalently and optionally bispecifically to the compound of interest.

The nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can include any nucleic acid or nucleic acid mimic that is capable of being detected. The nucleic acid that is used as the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can include any type of nucleic acid for example DNA or RNA or a nucleic acid mimic such as but not limited to a peptide nucleic acid or a combination thereof. The nucleic acid of the invention can be single stranded or double stranded. In one preferred embodiment the binding construct of the present invention includes a nucleic acid portion wherein the sequence of the nucleic acid portion does not include a sequence that is expected to be found in the sample and can thereby be reasonably expected to be less easily contaminated by nucleic acid sequences in the sample but is however designed so as to be easily detectable. The nucleic acid portion is preferably sufficiently long enough to be easily detectable by the detection method chosen.

The recognition portion can be attached to the nucleic acid portion by any method covalently or non covalently directly or indirectly and it will depend on the nature of a given recognition portion. Non covalent attachment methods include but are not limited to physical adsorption electrostatic forces ionic interactions hydrogen bonding hydrophilic hydrophobic interactions van der Waals forces and magnetic forces. Where desired for example when increased flexibility is needed a recognition portion may be indirectly affixed to the nucleic acid portion using a spacer arm. Preferably the recognition portion is attached to the nucleic acid portion via covalent linkage or via a high affinity non covalent interaction such as that of biotin and avidin.

The kit of the present invention also includes one or more surfaces that bears one or more accessible binding targets that are known to be recognized by and bind to the recognition portion of the binding construct. Such surfaces can be any particle capable of being separated from a liquid sample or such surfaces may be non particulate surfaces such as planar or non planar surfaces or a combination thereof. The surfaces can be optionally enclosed for example in a chamber. The binding targets can include any target capable of being recognized by and binding to the recognition portion of the binding construct for example peptide mimotopes or epitope mimetics for antibody variable regions whole or partial antigen nucleic acids or sugar moieties. The accessible binding target can be attached to the surface by any method and it will depend on the nature of a given surface and binding target.

In embodiments wherein the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct is detected by nucleic acid amplification the kit can optionally include a nucleic acid amplification primer pair for example a PCR primer pair wherein each primer of the primer pair hybridizes to its complementary sequence at the 3 end of a target nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid portion. The kit can further optionally include enzymes for nucleic acid amplification such as Taq polymerase or RNA reverse transcriptase. In embodiments wherein the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct is detected by nucleic acid hybridization the kit may contain one or more hybridization probes such as oligonucleotides labelled with a detectable label. In embodiments including amplification of a signal the kit may optionally include the reagents needed for signal amplification such as enzymes or substrates. Kits of the invention can optionally include reagents for direct detection of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct such as molecular beacons or an appropriate antibody. The kit can optionally include means for separation of construct surface complexes and any unbound surfaces for example a magnet for embodiments wherein the surface is a magnetic particle a filter for embodiments wherein the surface is a filterable particulate or a pipette for embodiments wherein the surface is the walls of a tube.

Optionally the kit can include instructions for the use of the kit. Such instructions may be in any suitable form such as a brochure leaflet pamphlet booklet or audiovisual materials. Preferably the instructions are sufficiently detailed to permit a user of the kit to successfully use the kit to detect a compound of interest in a sample. Such instructions may include for example instructions for mixing reagents manipulating components of the kit proper handling of a sample guidance in safety measures and in interpreting results and trouble shooting instructions.

The methods and kits of the present invention may be used to detect various classes of compounds of interest. The methods are particularly suitable to the detection of compounds of interest that are suspected to be present in low amounts or low concentrations in a sample. Compounds of interest can include but are not limited to nucleic acids peptides proteins glycoproteins lipoproteins lectins antibodies enzymes and receptors carbohydrates monosaccharides oligosaccharides and polysaccharides and glycosylated molecules lipids fats and lipidated molecules and whole or partial antigens. Compounds of interest may be small molecules for example ligands for a receptor drugs of abuse inorganic ions metals or chelates metabolites chemical intermediates or natural products . Compounds of interest may be monomers oligomers or polymers they can also be multi molecular assemblies for example amyloid beta protofibrils the dystrophin glycoprotein assembly proteosomes chaperone proteins or fragments of cell walls or cell membranes . Compounds of interest may be of completely natural origin completely artificial origin or a combination of both such as a compound of natural origin that is chemically or physically modified .

The methods of the invention may be applied to any suitable sample that is suspected of containing the compound of interest. The sample may be of entirely natural origin of entirely non natural origin such as of synthetic origin or a combination of natural and non natural origins. A sample may include whole cells such as prokaryotic cells bacterial cells eukaryotic cells plant cells fungal cells or cells from multi cellular organisms including invertebrates vertebrates mammals and humans tissues organs or biological fluids such as but not limited to blood serum plasma urine semen and cerebrospinal fluid . A sample may be an extract made from biological materials such as from prokaryotes bacteria eukaryotes plants fungi multi cellular organisms or animals invertebrates vertebrates mammals non human mammals and humans. A sample may be an extract made from whole organisms or portions of organisms cells organs tissues fluids whole cultures or portions of cultures or environmental samples or portions thereof. A sample may need minimal preparation for example collection into a suitable container for use in a method of the present invention or more extensive preparation such as but not limited to removal inactivation or blocking of undesirable material or contaminants filtration size selection affinity purification cell lysis or tissue digestion concentration or dilution . The sample may be in any phase solid liquid or gaseous in solution or in suspension as long as it may be treated such as by mechanical disruption lysis heating addition of a solvent or suspension agent to permit detection of the construct compound complex in solution. For example a sample may be a soil sample which may be suspended in an aqueous buffer and optionally filtered to remove undesired particulates before introduction of the binding construct.

The present invention includes a binding construct. The binding construct includes a recognition portion that can recognize and bind to the compound of interest and a nucleic acid portion. The recognition portion can be virtually any molecule or combination of molecules capable of recognizing and binding the compound of interest. Such recognition portions can include without limitation peptides polypeptides mimotopes antibodies Fab fragments nucleic acids nucleic acid mimics aptamers cell surface antigen carbohydrates small molecules such as a small molecule antigen or a ligand for a receptor inorganic ions or chelates or a combination thereof. Particularly preferred is a recognition portion capable of monovalent binding to the compound of interest.

In one embodiment the recognition portion is an antibody for example human or other mammalian IgG IgG IgG IgG IgG IgM IgA SigA or IgE or avian IgY and in one preferable embodiment the recognition portion is an antibody fragment. Preparation of Antibodies and Antibody Fragments Against a Compound of Interest is Well known in the art. These techniques are described in for example Harlow and Lane Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1988 and updated in Harlow and Lane Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1999 . Where the recognition portion is an antibody or antibody fragment it can be natural such as an immunoglobulin isolated from serum modified such as a reduced or deglycosylated antibody recombinant such as an antibody produced by phage display or a combination thereof.

The recognition portion can be a natural modified or recombinant antibody binding fragment such as an Fab fragment or such as a single chain antibody variable region fragment or ScFv in which the recombinant variable regions of an immunoglobulin s light and heavy chain domains are connected by a linker sequence Pantoliano et al. 1991 30 10117 10125 . In one embodiment the recognition portion of the binding construct includes an Fab fragment capable of monovalent binding to the compound of interest. Fab fragments against the compound of interest can be produced when antibodies against the compound of interest are cleaved by reduction or enzymatic cleavage of the disulfide bridge that holds the heavy chains together converting an antibody into two separate Fab fragments each capable of recognizing and binding the compound of interest and bearing a reactive sulfhydryl or thiol group that can be attached to other molecules for example the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct. In one embodiment a Fab fragment can be directly covalently attached to a nucleic acid portion through the free sulfhydryl of the Fab fragment thus forming the binding construct. In another embodiment the Fab fragment can be indirectly covalently attached to the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct through a bi functional linker capable of specifically binding both said Fab fragment and said nucleic acid portion forming the binding construct. Alternatively the recognition portion of the present invention can also be attached to the nucleic acid portion via non covalent means for example via an avidin biotin interaction a zinc polyhistidine interaction an antibody antigen interaction an aptamer peptide interaction or via other polypeptides capable of binding nucleic acids such as zinc binding polypeptide domain.

The recognition portion for example peptides mimotopes antibodies or aptamers can include natural molecules artificial molecules fusion or chimeric molecules molecules developed by random or non random combinatorial synthesis Dooley and Houghten 1993 52 1509 1517 Kramer et al. 1993 6 314 319 Folgori et al. 1994 13 2236 2243 Smith Petrenko 1997 97 391 410 or by directed evolution methods such as yeast two hybrid systems protein fragment complementation assay phage display ribosome display yeast surface display and bacterial surface display techniques Crameri and Suter 1993 137 69 75 Meola et al. 1995 154 3162 3172 Georgiou et al. 1997 15 29 34 M ssner and Pl ckthun 2001 55 324 B. K. Kay J. Winter and J. McCafferty editors Phage Display of Peptides and proteins A Laboratory Manual Academic Press Inc. San Diego 1996 344 pp. or a combination thereof. The recognition portion can be selected for its ability to recognize and bind the compound of interest by any suitable means known in the art for example by affinity selection affinity purification iterative panning or surface plasmon resonance technology F gerstam et al. 1991 3 208 214 Houshmand et al. 1999 268 363 370 .

The recognition portion of the binding construct may bind to the compound of interest in a monovalent or in a multivalent fashion. In one preferred embodiment the binding of the recognition portion of the binding construct to the compound of interest is monovalent. Examples of monovalent binding include but are not limited to a Fab fragment that monovalently binds to an antigen a receptor molecule that monovalently binds its ligand and an aptamer that monovalently binds a peptide. In certain other embodiments the binding of the recognition portion of the binding construct to the compound of interest may preferably be multivalent for example bivalent or trivalent. Multivalency may be desirable for example to increase the avidity of the binding between the binding construct and the compound of interest. In some embodiments the binding of the recognition portion of the binding construct to the compound of interest may be both bivalent and bispecific that is the recognition portion may bind to and recognize two separate specific binding sites of the compound of interest . An example of a bivalent monospecific binding is a dimeric antibody fragment or diabody Holliger et al. 1993 90 6444 6448 that is designed to bind monospecifically. An example of a bivalent bispecific antibody is a diabody that is designed to bind to two distinct binding sites of the compound of interest.

The nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can include any nucleic acid or nucleic acid mimic that is capable of being detected. The nucleic acid that is used as the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can include any type of nucleic acid for example DNA or RNA or a nucleic acid mimic such as but not limited to a peptide nucleic acid or a combination thereof. In this respect the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct acts as a marker for detection for example for detection through nucleic acid amplification nucleic acid hybridization enzymatic signal amplification detection of a label or a combination of these detection methods. The nucleic acid of the invention can be single stranded or double stranded.

In one preferred embodiment the binding construct of the present invention includes a nucleic acid portion wherein the sequence of the nucleic acid portion does not include a sequence that is expected to be found in the sample and can thereby be reasonably expected to be less easily contaminated by nucleic acid sequences in the sample but is however designed so as to be easily detectable. For example where the sample is a serum sample from a mammal the sequence of the nucleic acid portion can include a nucleic acid sequence believed to occur only in higher plants and thus unlikely to be found in mammalian serum. In another preferred embodiment the binding construct of the present invention includes a nucleic acid portion wherein the sequence of the nucleic acid portion does not include a sequence that is believed to occur in nature. In other embodiments the nucleic acid portion of the invention can include artificially derived sequences such as sequences arrived at by random or non random combinatorial approaches or repetitive sequences for example repetitive sequences that may be complementary to a single hybridization primer or probe. In other embodiments the nucleic acid portion of the invention can include multiple repetitive nucleic acid portions attached in series or in parallel to the recognition portion.

The nucleic acid portion is preferably sufficiently long enough to be easily detectable by the detection method chosen. Where detection of the nucleic acid portion includes nucleic acid amplification the nucleic acid portion preferably includes a single strand length of between about 50 to about 5000 nucleotides or between about 100 to about 4000 nucleotides or between about 200 and about 3000 nucleotides. However the nucleic acid portion may include any number of nucleotides that is suitable to the chosen method of amplification of the nucleic acid portion for example PCR or reverse transcriptase PCR. Where detection of the nucleic acid portion does not include nucleic acid amplification the nucleic acid portion preferably includes a single strand length of between about 4 nucleotides to about 5000 nucleotides or between about 20 nucleotides to about 4000 nucleotides or between about 100 nucleotides to about 3000 nucleotides. However the nucleic acid portion may include any number of nucleotides that is suitable to the chosen method of detection of the nucleic acid portion.

The recognition portion can be attached to the nucleic acid portion by any method covalently or non covalently directly or indirectly depending on the nature of a given recognition portion and nucleic acid portion. Such attaching methods can be for example covalent cross linking as well as non covalent linking methods such as are known in the art see for example R. P. Haugland Handbook of Fluorescent Probes and Research Products 9edition J. Gregory editor Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene Oreg. USA 2002 966 pp. Seitz and Kohler 2001 7 3911 3925 and Pierce Technical Handbook Pierce Biotechnology Inc. 1994 Rockford Ill. . Where desired for example when increased flexibility is needed a recognition portion may be affixed to the nucleic acid portion using a spacer arm. Keyes et al. 1997 72 282 90 Hustedt et al. 1995 34 4369 4375 and Pierce Technical Handbook Pierce Biotechnology Inc. 1994 Rockford Ill. . In one embodiment the recognition portion is attached to the nucleic acid portion via covalent linkage. Covalent means are well known in the art and may include for example the use of reactive groups chemical modification or activation photoactivated cross linking or bifunctional or trifunctional cross linking agents Pierce Biotechnology Inc. 1994 Rockford Ill. . In another embodiment the recognition portion is attached to the nucleic acid portion via non covalent means. Non covalent means include but are not limited to physical adsorption electrostatic forces ionic interactions hydrogen bonding hydrophilic hydrophobic interactions van der Waals forces and magnetic forces. A combination of covalent and non covalent attachment means may be used. For example the nucleic acid portion or repetitive multiples of the nucleic acid portion may be biotinylated and non covalently attached to a multivalent avidin moiety that is covalently cross linked to the recognition portion.

The present invention also includes one or more surfaces that bears one or more accessible binding targets that are known to be recognized by and bind to the recognition portion of the binding construct. Such surfaces can be particulate surfaces or non particulate surfaces and can be made of any suitable material such as but not limited to plastics polymers ceramics glass silica compounds modified silica compounds fluorocarbons metals or metal oxides sorbents resins biological materials for example polypeptides and carbohydrates or a combination thereof. Particulate surfaces can be any particle capable of being separated from a liquid sample for example magnetic particles polymeric particles glass particles silica particles ceramic particles and the like. Particulate surfaces can be any shape including spherical non spherical symmetric asymmetric or irregular they can be of uniform or non uniform size. Particulate surfaces can take any suitable form for example powders beads fibers macromolecular aggregates nanoparticles or nanotubes. Particulate surfaces may be optionally enclosed in a chamber such as in a reusable or a disposable cartridge cassette or insert. Non particulate surfaces include but are not limited to planar or non planar surfaces for example the sides of a tube or a well non porous films or membranes porous films or membranes fibers fillers meshes grids filters matrices gels or a combination thereof.

The accessible binding targets of the present invention can be any binding target capable of being recognized by and binding to the recognition portion of the binding construct for example nucleic acids peptide mimotopes or epitope mimetics for antibody variable regions Geysen et al. 1986 23 709 715 proteins glycoproteins lipoproteins lectins antibodies enzymes receptors carbohydrates monosaccharides oligosaccharides and polysaccharides and glycosylated molecules lipids fats and lipidated molecules and whole or partial antigens small molecules for example ligands for a receptor drugs of abuse inorganic ions or chelates metabolites chemical intermediates or natural products . Accessible binding targets may be monomers oligomers polymers they can also be multi molecular assemblies. Accessible binding targets may be of completely natural origin completely artificial origin or a combination of both such as a compound of natural origin that is chemically modified .

The accessible binding target can be attached to the surface by any method covalent or non covalent directly or indirectly depending on the nature of a given surface and accessible binding target. The accessible binding target can be attached to the surfaces by covalent bonds for example through the reaction of a chemically reactive group of the accessible binding target with a chemically reactive group of the surface using appropriate reagents. For example binding targets bearing primary amines can be linked to amine binding supports to form a secondary amine using sodium cyanoborohydride binding targets bearing carbohydrates can be linked to surfaces bearing a free hydrazide group to form a stable hydrazone bond. In another example 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDC can be used to link carboxyl groups to surfaces bearing primary amines. The accessible binding target can be attached to the surface by non covalent means including but not limited to physical adsorption electrostatic forces ionic interactions hydrogen bonding hydrophilic hydrophobic interactions van der Waals forces and magnetic forces. Non limiting examples of non covalent means include biotin avidin interactions protein A or protein G interactions with immunoglobulins and antigen antibody interactions.

The accessible binding target may be covalently attached to surfaces such as but not limited to polymeric ceramic glass silica or organic surfaces through a variety of surface chemistries. Surfaces both particulate and non particulate are readily available with carboxyl amino hydroxyl hydrazide or chloromethyl functional groups. In one embodiment where the surface is a magnetic particle commercial magnetic stocks may be used and may be selected for properties allowing the desired accessible binding target to be attached to the magnetic particles. For example the commercially available magnetic particle stock Micromod Nanomag Silica NH250 catalogue number 13 01 252 Micromod Partikeltechnologie GmbH Rostock Warnemuende Germany contains on its surface a free amino group which can be reacted with cross linkers for example N succinimidyl 4 iodoacetyl aminobenzoate SIAB or sulfosuccinimidyl 4 N maleimindomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate Sulfo SMCC each of which has an amine reactive end and a sulfhydryl reactive end. The NSH ester of SIAB can couple to primary amine containing molecules and the ensuing reaction is a stable amide linkage.

The construct surface and any excess unbound surfaces are separated from the construct compound complexes in the sample solution using any suitable method of separation which can depend on the type of surface used. Such methods can include without limitation separation by pressure or vacuum centrifugation size exclusion filtration or a combination thereof. The following are non limiting examples of separation. Where the surfaces are particulates such as powders beads fibers macromolecular aggregates nanoparticles or nanotubes the construct surface complexes can be separated by sedimentation centrifugation filtration size exclusion or non covalent attraction for example charge or hydrophobicity interaction . Where the surfaces are planar or non planar non particulates such as the walls of a microtiter well or a tube or vessel the construct surface complexes can be separated by decanting or aspiration. Where the surfaces are magnetic particles separation of the construct surface complexes from the mixture may be accomplished by application of magnetic force such as by exposure to a magnet.

In one embodiment the surfaces can be enclosed permanently or temporarily in a chamber such as in a tube cartridge column or cassette which can facilitate separation of the excess or unbound binding construct. For example the mixture containing the sample and binding construct can be passed through a cartridge or column containing accessible binding targets bound to surfaces such as beads a matrix a gel or a filter whereby the solution that is eluted or that passes through the cartridge or column is stripped of excess or unbound binding construct.

In some embodiments separation of the construct surface complexes from the mixture need not require physical removal of the construct surface complexes from the solution where it is sufficient to isolate the construct surface complexes from the solution phase detection step. For example where the surfaces are magnetic particles adequate separation of the construct surface complexes from the mixture may be accomplished by application of magnetic force for example to the side of a vessel containing the mixture thus attracting the magnetic particles to the side of the vessel and isolating them from the solution allowing an aliquot of the solution to be sampled for the detection step.

In an alternative embodiment any binding construct not bound to a compound of interest in a construct compound complex can be separated from the solution by methods such as but not limited to precipitation salting out size exclusion or filtration extraction or phase separation. In this alternative embodiment the principles of the methods of the invention remain the same that is to say 1 the use of only a single binding entity the binding construct 2 the separation of substantially all binding constructs not bound to a compound of interest resulting in an increased proportion of true positive signal to false positive signal and therefore an increased sensitivity of detection of the compound of interest 3 detection in solution phase and no requirement for solid phase detection and 4 no requirement for prior knowledge of a nucleic acid sequence of the compound of interest.

After the separation step by detecting the presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct the presence or absence of the compound of interest in the sample is indicated. The presence or absence of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can be detected by any method not necessarily involving nucleic acid amplification that is capable of detecting the presence or absence of nucleic acid for example enzymatic amplification hybridization or detection of a label. The detection of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can be accomplished by any method suitable for such purpose. These methods are well known in the art and they include without limitation amplification of the nucleic acid portion hybridization of the nucleic acid portion amplification of a signal detection of a label or a combination thereof.

Methods of the present invention can include nucleic acid amplification of the nucleic acid portion. Preferred embodiments of the present invention are capable of detecting low amounts or concentrations of the compound of interest and are capable of amplifying and detecting a few and a minimum of one construct compound complexes. In such preferred embodiments only a few and a minimum of one construct compound complexes need be remain in solution to serve as amplification templates after the separation of the construct surface complexes. The amplified nucleic acid can be measured or detected by any suitable method for example using labelled oligonucleotides as hybridization probes or by detecting amplified fragments of the appropriate size by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Amplification of the nucleic acid portion may use any suitable amplification method such as polymerase chain reaction amplification or reverse transcriptase amplification Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Joseph Sambrook et al. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 2001 999 pp. Short Protocols in Molecular Biology Frederick M. Ausubel et al. editors John Wiley Sons 2002 1548 pp. rolling circle amplification Liu et al. 1996 118 1587 1594 antisense RNA amplification Phillips and Eberwine 1996 10 283 288 strand displacement amplification Walker et al. 1992 20 1691 1696 composite primer strand displacement amplification U.S. Pat. No. 6 251 639 to Kurn Methods and compositions for linear isothermal amplification of polynucleotide sequences using a RNA DNA composite primer issued Jun. 26 2001 Q beta replicase mediated amplification Lomeli et al. 1989 35 1826 1831 linked linear amplification Reyes et al. 2001 47 31 40 self sustained sequence replication 3SR Fahy et al. 1991 1 25 33 or other nucleic acid amplification methods known in the art Andras et al. 2001 19 29 44 . Another method of detection of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can be for example by primer extension and detection of the extended nucleic acid.

Hybridization of the nucleic acid portion may be achieved by hybridization of a probe to the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct followed by detection of the hybridized structure according to methods known in the art. The probe may include DNA RNA a nucleic acid mimic such as but not limited to a peptide nucleic acid or a combination thereof. The probe may include a suitable detectable label such as but not limited to radioisotopes spin labels fluorophores including organic dyes and lanthanide chelates chromophores one or both members of a resonance energy transfer pair haptens antigens antibodies or enzymes. A label for example a fluorophore or a hapten can also be incorporated directly into the nucleic acid by methods known in the art followed by the detection of the label. Detection of the nucleic acid may include enzymatic amplification of a signal such as a signal from a label on a probe for example by using peroxidase tyramide signal amplification R. P. Haugland Handbook of Fluorescent Probes and Research Products 9edition J. Gregory editor Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene Oreg. USA 2002 966 pp. or alkaline phosphatase anti alkaline phosphatase signal amplification. The nucleic acid portion of the binding construct can also be detected directly or after amplification or hybridization by other methods including but not limited to molecular beacons optionally combined with real time detection or other resonance energy transfer methods or immunological detection for example using antibodies that recognize and capture an amplified DNA sequence in an ELISA type assay .

When detection of the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct involves amplification a preferred method is amplification of the nucleic acid portion by polymerase chain reaction according to methods known in the art Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Joseph Sambrook et al. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 2001 Short Protocols in Molecular Biology Frederick M. Ausubel et al. editors John Wiley Sons 2002 . The capability to detect a compound of interest in a sample can be significantly increased and broadened by coupling to polymerase chain reaction. PCR allows for enormous amplification capability and is a process where a specific sequence of nucleic acid can be amplified millions of times. This enormous amplification capability is based on the ability to amplify a specific target sequence of nucleic acid flanked by a set of primers. Once the nucleic acid is amplified the result can be detected using any method suitable for such purpose for example using an agarose gel.

This example provides one non limiting embodiment of the present invention wherein the surfaces are magnetic particles bearing peptide mimotopes as the accessible binding targets. In this model system an antibody that recognizes a bacterial cell wall protein the OMPE protein was used. A bacterial recombinant fragment of OMPE protein was provided by Dr. Timothy Murphy at the University of Buffalo and used as the immunogen for preparing monoclonal antibody 12D.5 Mab 12D.5 . Using overlapping peptide mapping the antigenic epitope was shown to reside within amino acids 187 220 of the recombinant fragment. A peptide corresponding to this epitope designated Mopep2 was synthesized with an N terminal cysteine for post synthesis attachment to free sulfhydryl binding structures. Mab 12D.5 was cleaved into two Fab fragments using 2 mercaptoethylamine HCL Pierce leaving a reactive sulfhydryl group that can be attached to another molecule.

Ten milligrams per milliliter of magnetic particle stock Micromod Nanomag Silica NH250 lot number 210213T catalogue number 13 01 252 Micromod Partikeltechnologie GmbH Rostock Warnemuende Germany which contains a free amino group on its surface was reacted with 140 micrograms SIAB in DMSO and rotated in the dark for 2 hours. The particles were separated by means of a magnet and subsequently incubated in 50 millimolar sodium borate buffer pH 9.6 containing 5 millimolar EDTA with 100 microliter of 1.7 milligrams per milliliter Mopep2 in DMSO and incubated overnight. The free sulfhydryl group on the Mopep2 peptide was reacted with the SIAB treated magnetic particles creating a stable thioether bond. Unreacted sites were blocked with free cysteine and the Mopep2 labelled particles were washed and resuspended in 1 milliliter PBS for analysis.

To test the ability of the Mopep2 particles to bind to free 12D.5 Mab in solution an inhibition ELISA was performed. Ten microliters of either Mopep2 particles or control particles similarly labelled with bovine serum albumin BSA were incubated with a 2 fold serial dilution of horseradish peroxidase HRPO conjugated 12D.5 in PBS total volume 100 microliters starting at 2 microgram milliliter in a 96 well microtiter plate and incubated for 30 minutes. Particles were separated to the bottom of the wells by means of a magnet and 50 microliters of each dilution set were added to Mopep2 coated plates and incubated for an additional 30 minutes. A standard ELISA was then performed with the addition of 3 3 5 5 tetramethylbenzidine substrate allowed to develop for 10 minutes and absorbance read at 630 nanometers with no stop solution added. Data depicted in show that the Mopep2 particles were capable of binding to and separating monoclonal antibody 12D5 12D.5 Mab horseradish peroxidase HRPO conjugates from solution thus preventing the 12D.5 Mab HRPO conjugate from binding to Mopep2 coated wells in a dose dependent manner. Particles coated with bovine serum albumin BSA were unable to inhibit 12D.5 Mab HRPO conjugate from binding to Mopep2 coated wells.

This example provides one embodiment of the binding construct in which an Fab fragment is used as the recognition portion of the binding construct. The plasmid pUC 19 was purchased from Invitrogen and plasmid DNA was linearized by EcoRI. The linearized pUC19 DNA was extracted and purified from agarose gel. This DNA was attached to the Fab fragment of Mab 12D.5 and served as the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct. Commercially available primers were subsequently used to amplify a 1 kilobase fragment from the linearized pUC19 template. To generate a DNA fragment that would be attached to the 12D.5 Fab fragment through the free sulfhydryls SH and serve as the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct a 5 psoralen 3 amino oligonucleotide was conjugated to a SIAB linker through the available amine. The pUC 1 kilobase DNA was denatured in the presence of excess oligonucleotide and snap annealed to the psoralen using long wave ultraviolet light. The excess oligonucleotide was removed with an molecular weight cut off MWCO filter and the SIAB pUC template was then attached to the Fab fragment using the free sulfhydryl binding end of the attached linker. The entire binding construct designated Fab DNA was not further purified.

This example provides one embodiment for detection of a compound of interest wherein the nucleic acid portion of the binding construct is amplified by PCR. This experiment demonstrated the ability of the Fab DNA binding construct Mab 12D.5 pUC19 construct to bind to the compound of interest the free antigen bacterial recombinant fragment of OMPE or rOMPE thus forming construct compound complexes in solution. Surfaces magnetic particles bearing accessible binding targets Mopep2 peptides bound any Fab DNA not bound to the compound of interest and a magnet was used to separate the surfaces leaving the construct compound complexes Fab DNA bound to antigen in solution with the nucleic acid portion pUC19 of the binding construct available for nucleic acid amplification.

rOMPE was titered in two fold dilution steps in 1 milliliter PBS from 100 nanograms milliliter to 1.56 nanograms milliliter. Each serial dilution was incubated with 20 microliters 8 micrograms of Fab DNA for 30 minutes and then 10 microliters of Mopep2 particles was added to each well and incubated for an additional 30 minutes. Control wells included 1 1.1 milliliter PBS and 0.2 milliliter Fab DNA no rOMPE positive control and 2 1 milliliter PBS 0.2 milliliter Fab DNA and 0.1 milliliter particles negative control . Wells were exposed to a rare earth magnet for 15 minutes to separate the magnetic particles from the solution and 0.2 milliliter of the solution removed from each well for amplification.

Samples were amplified by PCR as follows. A 50 microliter PCR reaction mix contained 5 microliters 10 PCR buffer without MgCl 1 microliter of 50 millimolar MgCl 0.5 microliter of 50 millimolar dNTPs 1 microliter of each sense or antisense primer to pUC19 1 microliter Taq polymerase 2 microliters of sample solution and 38.5 microliters ddHO. The sense primer had the sequence CCTCTAGAGTCGACCTGCAGGCATGC SEQ ID NO. 1 . The anti sense primer had the sequence CACTGGCCGTCGTTTTACAACGTCGTG SEQ ID NO. 2 . All sequences are given in the 5 to 3 direction.

PCR samples were resolved on 1 agarose gel and visualized by ethidium bromide. 10 microliters of each concentration of PCR samples was loaded on the gel. PCR primers amplified an approximate 2650 by pUC19 fragment. A 1 kilobase extension DNA ladder Invitrogen was used as the molecular weight standard. As shown in PCR primers amplified a 2.6 kilobase DNA fragment in the following samples 790 picogram 395 picogram 198 picogram 98 picogram and 12 picogram. Very fine bands were observed in samples of 49 picogram and 24 picogram.

Beta Amyloid Protofibrils In this example the compound of interest is an oligomer of amyloid beta protein called a protofibril. Detection of amyloid beta protofibrils can be useful in the early detection of Alzheimer s disease. The sample is serum or cerebral spinal fluid CSF from a patient suspected of having or being at risk for Alzheimer s disease. The binding construct includes 1 a recognition portion which is an antibody or an antibody fragment that recognizes the protofibril and 2 a nucleic acid portion that does not exist in nature. The nucleic acid portion is a DNA template that can be recognized by synthetic primers designed to bind to the template at low stringency for amplification using PCR. The binding construct is added to a concentration of 10 nanograms per milliliter with a 100 microliter sample of serum and incubated for a sufficient time to allow the antibody or antibody fragment to bind to protofibrils present in the sample thus forming construct compound construct protofibril complexes in solution. The binding surfaces are magnetic particles labelled with an accessible binding target the same peptide sequence that was used as the immunogen to generate the anti protofibril antibody the recognition portion of the binding construct . The magnetic particles bear primary amine reactive groups allowing the immunogenic peptide to be conjugated to the particles through its carboxy terminus carboxyl using a water soluble carbodiimide such as 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC . Ten microliters of a 30 particle suspension is added to the solution containing construct compound construct protofibril complexes allowing the particles to form construct surface complexes with the unbound anti protofibril DNA binding constructs. A magnet is applied to the solution and the magnetic particles are separated thus separating unbound binding constructs and leaving behind the construct compound complexes in the solution. Two microliters of the resulting solution containing construct compound complexes are added to a PCR reaction solution containing primers free nucleotides and Taq DNA polymerase. The DNA portion of any binding constructs present as construct compound complexes in solution is amplified. The PCR reaction is resolved on a 1 agarose gel and visualized by ethidium bromide staining. The presence or absence of amyloid beta protofibrils in the sample is indicated by the presence or absence respectively in the gel of bands corresponding to the correct molecular weight for the amplified DNA fragment.

All headings are for the convenience of the reader and should not be used to limit the meaning of the text that follows the heading unless so specified. Various changes and departures may be made to the present invention without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited to that specifically described in the specification or as illustrated in the drawings but only as set forth in the claims.

