---

title: Social networking for bandwidth conservation in video on demand systems
abstract: A method is disclosed for using social networking information to conserve bandwidth in a video-on-demand (VOD) system operated by a service provider. In a VOD server system, a request for a VOD content item is accepted from a first client system associated with a user of the VOD system. A list of social networking friends of the user is obtained. A node-sharing group of the list of social networking friends is determined. The node-sharing group includes the first client system and zero or more client systems sharing a distribution node of the VOD server system with the first client system. A video delivery start message is sent through the shared distribution node to each client system in the node-sharing group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106972&OS=09106972&RS=09106972
owner: GOOGLE TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS LLC
number: 09106972
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
Video on Demand VOD typically refers to an area of technology that allows client device end users to select video content or other content from a source such as a central server for viewing on a suitable end user display device such as a television TV or a computer monitor. One type of VOD system is a streaming VOD system in which video content or other content is streamed from the source to an end user client device and viewing of the content can begin as soon as the content streams over a suitable network connection from the source to the end user client device. Another type of VOD system is a download VOD system in which content initially is downloaded to a video processing device such as a set top box before end user viewing begins. Typically almost all download VOD systems and many streaming VOD systems allow the end user to pause fast forward and rewind the content as well as to view the content at any time.

A VOD server system is typically maintained by a service provider which can be for example a television service provider e.g. a national or local television network a cable television service provider or multiple system operator MSO an Internet service provider a satellite broadcast system service provider or other suitable service provider.

End users typically desire minimal content download latencies. However for the service provider bandwidth requirements typically grow linearly with the number of requests. In some cases delays can occur even though a service provider provides the required bandwidth.

In addition a growing population of end users are interested in social networking and want to easily share viewing information about selected video content such as favorite recently viewed or currently viewed television programs or movies with their contacts friends or connections using social networking portals. Social networking portals include general interest portals such as Facebook MySpace Orkut Twitter and Google Buzz as well as portals specifically directed to social television e.g. sharing viewing information such as Tunerfish Miso Philo Clicker Social and TV.com Relay.

In one embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for using social networking information to conserve bandwidth in a video on demand VOD system operated by a service provider. In a VOD server system a request for a VOD content item is accepted from a first client system associated with a user of the VOD system. A list of social networking friends of the user is obtained. A node sharing group of the list of social networking friends is determined. The node sharing group includes the first client system and zero or more client systems sharing a distribution node of the VOD server system with the first client system. A video delivery start message is sent through the shared distribution node to each client system in the node sharing group.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for using social networking information in a VOD system. In a receiving client system associated with a receiving user a video delivery start message is received for a VOD content item that was requested by a requesting user of the VOD system. The requesting user and the receiving user are both users of a social networking server of the VOD system. The receiving client system and a client system associated with the requesting user share a distribution node of the VOD system. A priority value of the VOD content item is determined. When a local storage of the receiving client system has insufficient storage space for the VOD content item locally stored content in the receiving client system having a lower priority value than the VOD content item is deleted. When the local storage has sufficient storage space for the VOD content item a multicast of the VOD content item is received through the shared distribution node and the VOD content item is stored in the local storage.

In a further embodiment of the present invention a VOD system is provided. The VOD system includes a server system comprising a VOD server and a social networking server communicatively coupled to each other and to an access network. A plurality of distribution nodes is communicatively coupled to the access network and each of the plurality of distribution nodes is configured to distribute VOD content downstream to one or more client systems. The social networking server is configured to store in a social television database social networking information associated with a user of a first client system. The social networking information comprises a list of social networking friends of the user. The server system is configured to determine a node sharing group comprising the first client system and zero or more client systems associated with the social networking friends of the user. Each client system of the node sharing group shares a common distribution node of the plurality of distribution nodes.

Aspects of the present invention provide a method for bandwidth conservation using social networking in a VOD system. In an embodiment a VOD server system is able to deliver a VOD content item proactively to a requesting user and to social networking friends of that user who share a common distribution node. In such an embodiment the VOD content item can be multicasted and no additional access network resources have to be used for this purpose thus conserving critical system bandwidth reducing load on the access network and helping to more efficiently use system resources.

Thus aspects of the present invention are able to improve customer satisfaction in cases when a customer comes to know that his friend is watching a movie and decides to watch the same movie. In a conventional VOD system the movie then has to be requested from the VOD server which in turn has to find the required bandwidth to serve the customer which may involve noticeable delay and depending on then current load in the access network further delays may occur. Conversely in an embodiment the customer who has proactively been served that movie is able to begin viewing without delay and is likely to be delighted.

Before describing in detail embodiments that are in accordance with the present invention it should be observed that the embodiments reside primarily in combinations of method steps and apparatus components related to a system and method for bandwidth conservation using social networking in a VOD system. Accordingly the apparatus components and method steps have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.

In this document relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element preceded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

VOD system includes a server system and a plurality of distribution nodes A B C . . . N each a node . Server system and nodes are connected by an access network . For example communication link connects the server system to the access network and communication links A B C . . . N connect the nodes to the access network . VOD system includes a plurality of client systems A . . . N each a client system .

Each node is connected to one or more client systems for example so that each node can exchange data with and deliver content e.g. from VOD server downstream to its connected client systems . For example depicts that node A is connected to client systems A B and C node B is connected to client systems D E and F node C is connected to client systems G and H and node N is connected to client system N. An exemplary client system A is depicted for illustrative purposes in greater detail than other client systems .

The server system stores manages and delivers VOD content requested by a client system via the access network . Access network and communication links can include for example a transmission medium such as an optical fiber a coaxial cable or other suitable transmission media or wireless telecommunications. In an exemplary embodiment access network comprises a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC network.

The server system typically is located in a headend not shown or other suitable location within the VOD system . The headend typically is a regional or local hub that is part of a larger service provider distribution system such as a cable television distribution system. The VOD system and other conventional VOD systems typically are based on a central server architecture. In such an architecture the server system typically is centrally located with respect to a plurality of nodes and connects to each node directly via a dedicated transmission medium in some embodiments communication links of access network . In other embodiments the VOD system can be distributed for example VOD system can comprise a plurality of server systems located in one or more headends.

In an embodiment an exemplary server system includes a VOD server and a social networking server . Further embodiments can include a user interface UI server a playout controller and or additional servers. In some embodiments the functionality of some or all of the foregoing servers controllers or processors can be separated or combined with one another and can be executed or hosted on one or more processors or servers.

Server system also includes at least one database containing for example media content and advertisements and can contain any number of additional databases illustrative examples include a social television database a metadata and or rules database containing information about content in database and a subscriber database. In some embodiments database and or any of the additional databases can comprise a plurality of databases. In further embodiments database social television database and or any of the additional databases can be distributed over a plurality of servers and or storage media.

In still further embodiments either or both of social networking server and social TV database may be external to server system and accessible to server system via a communications network e.g. access network or the Internet . For example in some embodiments social networking server may be provided by a third party social networking provider i.e. a provider other than the service provider that provides server system .

Server system receives through access network requests from a client system . Server system and client system exchange information with one another through access network for example a user interface UI server not shown of server system can send information for presentation to a user and the client system can send to the server system information commands and the like received in set top box via input device from user . In an embodiment each client system can be associated with one or more users .

In an illustrative example server system can include a playout controller not shown that controls VOD server for delivery of the playout of a content package provided by server system . In an illustrative example when a user selects a VOD program or broadcast content the playout controller can establish a playout schedule for the content and advertising elements based on content rules. The playout controller can then establish a playlist of the desired content including the sequencing of program content and advertisement content for example by inserting additional advertisement content into an original content program compiled by VOD server .

VOD server receives requests for content e.g. from client system or from a playout controller interprets the requests pulls requested content from database and delivers to client system a content package corresponding to the requested content. For example the content package can be delivered via a video processor not shown in server system that receives data from VOD server and prepares and sends the data through access network following proper protocols.

Client system includes a set top box STB an input device and a display . Examples of display include a television or a monitor. A client system typically is located in end user subscriber locations such as a home or office of a user . Often a home or other end user location has only one client system although in many cases more than one client system can be located in the same end user location e.g. as part of a home network or business network configuration.

It will be understood by a person having ordinary skill in the art that the terminology set top does not in any way limit the physical placement of the device that is the STB need not be positioned on top of a television set. Each set top box is any suitable signal processing device or system for processing video signals such as any signal converter or decoder set top box or other suitable computing device or video device with set top box and or cable modem capabilities including a residential gateway an internet protocol IP satellite or cable digital video recorder a digital video disk DVD recorder a computer or a home media server system. In further embodiments set top box can be a laptop notebook or tablet computer or a mobile device or can be built into the display . An exemplary set top box comprises a computing device that connects the display and an external signal source turning the signal into a content stream that the display is able to render and display. For example set top box can convert data signals to audio video content and output the data to display . Set top box is communicatively coupled to the display via a wired or wireless connection.

A set top box can be completely or partially configured in the form of hardware circuitry and or other hardware components within a larger device or group of components. Alternatively set top box can be completely or partially configured in the form of software e.g. as processing instructions or one or more sets of logic or computer code. In such configuration the logic or processing instructions typically are stored in a data storage device which typically is coupled to a processor or controller. Both the data storage device and the processor or controller can be included as part of a set top box although such is not necessary. The processor or controller accesses the necessary instructions from the data storage device and executes the instructions or transfers the instructions to the appropriate location within the set top box . An exemplary set top box is able to receive input commands from input device and send requests embodied in the input commands through access network to server system .

A user can operate input device to send commands to the set top box for example by using input device to control a user interface UI application of STB e.g. for navigation and selection of content items from menus . Input device is communicatively coupled to the set top box either via a wired or wireless connection. In some embodiments input device can be a remote control device. In further embodiments input device can be a computer e.g. a desktop laptop notebook or tablet computer or a mobile device or smartphone and or can be completely or partially configured in the form of software running on a computer. In still further embodiments input device can be built into the set top box .

In an exemplary embodiment upon receipt of input commands such as changing to a new channel the UI application causes the set top box to send corresponding instructions upstream through access network to server system . In an illustrative embodiment server system e.g. in a UI server not shown is able to convert the instruction stream to a form that a playout controller can interpret and sends the instructions to the playout controller which requests content from VOD server which interprets the request and pulls the requested content from database and delivers the content to set top box .

Database stores items of content. The content can be any video and or audio non limiting examples of which include movies television programs music games etc. Further the content may be pre assembled with advertisements disposed therein or the playout controller may cause insertion of advertisements into requested content. In some embodiments advertisements to be inserted are stored in database . An advertisement can be any video or audio that is not the content non limiting examples of which include commercials. The combination of content and advertisements if included is the content package.

Some social networking data can be associated with content such as favorite planned recently viewed or currently viewed television programs or movies while other social networking data may not be directly related to content. A portion of social networking data as more fully described below can be stored for example in social TV database . In further embodiments all or portions of social TV database can be included in database or in other additional databases.

In addition communication links connect outside systems A B to the access network without an intervening distribution node . In an embodiment the outside systems A B may be client systems having a set top box that is associated with a different service provider i.e. a service provider other than the service provider of server system or may be client systems that include a general purpose computer adapted for Internet browsing rather than a set top box.

For illustrative purposes the focus of the present discussion is client system A and its user . In some embodiments user of client system A can use social networking server to build his online social network by adding social networking friends. In a further embodiment user of client system A can use social networking server to access his online social network e.g. by accessing a list of social networking friends via a social networking portal not shown . In the field of online social networking services the term friend is known to include connections that may or may not include friendship or relationship in real life. The term friend is commonly used in services such as Facebook. In the present disclosure the term social networking friend is also inclusive of other terms similarly used in online social networking such as LinkedIn connections Twitter followers followees and the like. There are numerous conventional methods for finding and adding social networking friends to an online social network which are well known to a person having ordinary skill in the art.

The list of social networking friends for user can be securely maintained in social TV database . In an embodiment proper authentication mechanisms such as those known in the art can be established to regulate access to information from social networking server in order to maintain privacy.

In an embodiment user can share e.g. with some or all of his social networking friends social television data for example social networking data associated with content e.g. favorite planned recently viewed or currently viewed television programs or movies. User can also have the ability to hide social television data from some or all social networking friends if desired. In a further embodiment user can search his list of social networking friends to find who is watching the same program that he is currently watching.

In the illustrative example of the user of client system A has built an online network of social networking friends that includes the users of client systems D E H I and the users of outside systems A and B.

In some embodiments user using social networking server is able to create a network of social networking friends who commonly subscribe to the service provider of server system .

In a further embodiment user has built a network of social networking friends using a third party social networking portal. In an illustrative example user has built a network of social networking friends using a social networking portal such as Facebook which provides a platform and application programming interface API . Using such an API the service provider of server system can with the permission of user access the user s list of friends and certain information about those friends can develop compatible social networking applications e.g. an application hosted on social networking server and can allow the user and the user s friends to share information related to those applications. In this way the service provider of server system can use social networking server to exchange information with a portal such as Facebook can store information retrieved from a portal such as Facebook in social TV database and can use features of a portal such as Facebook to allow the user to more easily share data from social TV database with social networking friends.

Node sharing group represents the user of client system A and his social networking friends users of client systems D and E who are subscribers of the service provider of server system and who share the same distribution node A.

Non node sharing group represents social networking friends who are subscribers of the service provider of server system but who do not share distribution node A with the user of client system A. Group includes the users of client systems H and I.

Non subscriber group represents social networking friends who are not subscribers of the service provider of server system and who are therefore unable to receive VOD content from VOD server . Group includes the users of outside systems A and B.

In one embodiment method includes a step of accepting a request for a content item. For example user of client system A starts by requesting a content item e.g. a movie or a television program from the VOD server and the VOD server accepts this request.

In step the VOD server queries the social networking server for a list of social networking friends of user . In an embodiment user is a registered user of the social networking server and has granted permission to the social networking server to obtain and or store his list of social networking friends and to share data from social TV database with his social networking friends.

In an embodiment the social networking server or VOD server is able to determine whether social networking friends of user are subscribers to the service provider of server system and whether they share a distribution node with the user . In a further embodiment social networking friends of user must themselves be registered users of the social networking server in order to be detected as subscribers to the service provider of server system .

In a further embodiment for example the social networking server and or VOD server may have access to a subscriber database associated with server system . In a further example each registered user of the social networking server may be able to store information concerning their own service provider in social TV database e.g. to facilitate matching of the registered user of the social networking server with a client system in a subscriber database.

Thus in an illustrative embodiment social networking friends of user including newly added social networking friends can be properly categorized by the social networking server or VOD server into node sharing group non node sharing group or non subscriber group . Such a categorization can be stored for example in social TV database .

Accordingly in step the VOD server is able to determine which social networking friends of user are categorized into node sharing group . In some embodiments the VOD server has received the full list of social networking friends of user and then determines which of those social networking friends are in node sharing group . In further embodiments the VOD server has received from social networking server a list of only the social networking friends that are in node sharing group . In still further embodiments the VOD server has received from social networking server a full list of social networking friends including group identifiers e.g. flags or data fields for identifying which of those social networking friends are in node sharing group .

Social networking friends in node sharing group represent a viewer set of client systems that can be proactively served the same content item by VOD server without making additional bandwidth commitments i.e. for bandwidth in access system . In an embodiment the client systems who are under the same node in a HFC can receive the traffic broadcasted by a cable modem termination system CMTS without any additional resources being reserved. Advantageously an embodiment allows the service provider of server system to deliver the content item not only to the user but to other STBs in the node sharing group without making additional bandwidth commitments i.e. for bandwidth in access system .

In step once the node sharing group is identified by the VOD server the VOD server sends a video delivery start message to each STB in the node sharing group including the STB associated with the requesting user . This message includes information such as a multicast group session ID required resources e.g. storage space required for the content item and the like. The STBs of node sharing group which have the required resources on their end are able to join the multicast session and download the content item. The multicast session is then established and the content item can be delivered to the STBs of those client systems in the node sharing group that have sufficient resources.

In some embodiments a database or directory in local storage can contain metadata associated with content items in local storage including storage priority values. The proactively delivered content item can be marked as having a lower priority than content items expressly requested by the user of STB accordingly STB can be configured to automatically overwrite such lower priority content when storage space is needed. This helps prevent the local storage from too quickly becoming filled with content that the user did not expressly request.

In step a client system receives the video delivery start message that was sent by VOD server in step . Next the client system takes steps to determine whether to accept the delivery of the VOD content item e.g. by joining a multicast session for receiving the VOD content item .

In step client system checks whether the user associated with client system expressly requested the VOD content item e.g. in step above . If the user was the requester of step the method proceeds to step . At step a high priority is assigned to the VOD content item in some embodiments the highest possible priority is assigned and the method proceeds to step .

However if the user was not the requester of step but is rather a social networking friend of the requester additional priority determinations may need to be made before the download is accepted and the method proceeds to step .

In step a priority value is determined for the VOD content item. In some embodiments the priority value is based on whether the user has requested the VOD content item. For example if the user did not request the VOD content item the priority value will be lower than if the user did request the VOD content item.

It is noted that merely downloading the VOD content item to the STB of a social networking friend does not force the social networking friend to pay for the VOD content item. The requesting user who has explicitly requested the VOD content item will be responsible for paying for the VOD content item. Social networking friends of the requesting user will only be responsible to pay for the VOD content item if and when they decide to watch it.

In a further embodiment each user of the social networking system can assign priorities to certain categories e.g. genres programs and the like indicating interest or lack of interest in each category. For example in some embodiments if the user of the social networking system has indicated a total lack of interest in a genre program etc. that includes the VOD content item the download can be declined e.g. based on assigning a zero or negative priority value . In further embodiments if the user of the social networking system has indicated a relatively high or low lack of interest in a genre program etc. that includes the VOD content item the priority of the VOD content item can be adjusted upward or downward.

In a still further embodiment each user of the social networking system can assign rankings to his own social networking friends e.g. based on whether the user perceives that he generally shares viewing interests with a particular social networking friend. In some embodiments a low ranked friend e.g. based on commonality of viewing interests can result in declining all downloads for which the low ranked friend is the requesting user. For example content can be declined based on assigning the content a zero or negative priority value. In further embodiments a relatively high or low ranking of a friend can result in assigning a correspondingly higher or lower priority to all VOD content items for which the friend is the requesting user thus influencing what VOD content items are accepted for download.

In some embodiments finely grained priorities can be assigned to the lower priority content items. In an illustrative example suppose a new content item is more popularly requested among the social networking friends of user than a previously recorded content item naturally the new content item may be more preferred by the user . So when the STB of a viewer does not have enough space to record the new content item in an embodiment it can create sufficient space by overwriting a lower priority e.g. less popular content item that was cached earlier.

In step in some embodiments an STB can decline to join the multicast session e.g. regardless of whether it has the required storage resources available based on the priority determination in step . For example in some embodiments content can be declined if the content has been assigned a zero or negative priority value. If the content is declined the method skips to step and terminates. If the content is not declined the method proceeds to step .

In step the client system determines whether it has sufficient local storage available to store the VOD content item. If sufficient local storage is available to store the VOD content item the method skips to step . If sufficient local storage is not available to store the VOD content item the method proceeds to step .

In step the client system determines whether there is enough locally stored content having a lower priority than the VOD content item such that deleting it would create sufficient available space for storing the VOD content item. If not the method skips to step and terminates without accepting the download. Otherwise the client system proceeds to step .

In step the client system can delete all or part of the locally stored content having a lower priority than the VOD content item. In some embodiments the client system can optimize which items are selected for deletion in order to minimize the number of items deleted. The method then proceeds to step .

In step the client system receives the VOD content item e.g. by joining the multicast session identified by the video delivery start message received at step and stores the VOD content item in local storage .

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments of the present invention have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

