---

title: Method and system for ink delivery and purged ink recovery in an inkjet printer
abstract: An inkjet printing apparatus is provided with a one-way valve to enable a single conduit to supply ink to an ink reservoir and withdraw purged ink from a receptacle into the ink reservoir. A bi-directional pump is operated in both directions in an alternating manner to withdraw ink from the receptacle when supplying the ink reservoir with ink.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08550612&OS=08550612&RS=08550612
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08550612
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101020
---
This disclosure relates generally to systems that supply and recover fluid from a device and more particularly to an inkjet printer configured to supply liquid ink to an ink reservoir within an inkjet printing apparatus and recover liquid ink from a receptacle associated with the inkjet printing apparatus.

Fluid transport systems are well known and used in a number of applications. One specific application of transporting a fluid in a machine is the transportation of ink in a printer. Common examples of inks include aqueous inks and phase change or solid inks. Aqueous inks remain in a liquid form when stored prior to being used in imaging operations. Solid ink or phase change inks typically have a solid form either as pellets or as ink sticks of colored cyan yellow magenta and black ink that are inserted into feed channels in a printer through openings to the channels. After the ink sticks are fed into the printer they are urged by gravity or a mechanical actuator to a heater assembly of the printer. The heater assembly includes a heater and a melt plate. The heater which converts electrical energy into heat is positioned proximate the melt plate to heat the melt plate to a temperature that melts an ink stick coming into contact with the melt plate. The melt plate may be oriented to drip melted ink into a reservoir and the ink stored in the reservoir continues to be heated while awaiting subsequent use.

Each reservoir of colored liquid ink may be fluidly coupled to an inkjet printing apparatus. The liquid ink is pumped from the reservoir to a manifold in the inkjet printing apparatus. As the inkjet ejectors in the inkjet printing apparatus eject ink onto a receiving medium or imaging member the action of the diaphragms in the inkjet ejectors pull ink from the manifold. The inkjet ejectors may be piezoelectric devices that are selectively activated by a controller with a driving signal.

Conduits typically employed in transporting ink between a reservoir and one or more inkjet ejectors may be referred to as umbilicals . An umbilical is a flexible conduit fluidly coupled to an inkjet printing apparatus at one end and one or more ink supplies at another end. An umbilical may contain one or many separate channels for transporting fluids such as ink. Typical prior art umbilical assemblies include one or more conduits formed from a flexible material such as extruded silicone for example. During operation the delivery conduits are filled with ink so as to avoid inserting air bubbles into the inkjet ejectors. Air bubbles suspended in ink supplying the jet stack may cause ejector misfires during imaging operations.

During maintenance and cleaning operations ink within an inkjet printing apparatus may be purged through the inkjet ejectors. A receptacle or catch may be used to capture and hold the purged ink. The receptacle is emptied after a purge operation by pulling the ink out of the receptacle through another conduit to which a negative pressure source has been applied. The collected purged ink may be directed to the reservoir to enable the ink to be returned to the inkjet printing apparatus. The efficient collection and transfer of purged ink is important in inkjet printers.

An inkjet printing apparatus configured to have an ink reservoir in selective fluid communication with a receptacle has been developed. The inkjet printing apparatus includes an ink reservoir for storing liquid ink a plurality of inkjet ejectors in fluid communication with the ink reservoir a receptacle mounted proximate to the plurality of inkjet ejectors the receptacle having an opening configured to receive ink purged from the plurality of inkjet ejectors and the receptacle having an outlet fluidly connected to the ink reservoir a one way valve positioned at the outlet of the receptacle and a port in the ink reservoir that is configured to enable a negative pressure to be generated within the ink reservoir to operate the one way valve and pull ink from the receptacle into the ink reservoir through the outlet of the receptacle. Each inkjet ejector is configured to receive ink from the ink reservoir and eject ink from an aperture formed in each inkjet ejector. The one way valve is configured to enable the ink in the receptacle to flow into the ink reservoir and to resist a flow of ink from the ink reservoir into the receptacle through the outlet of the receptacle.

A system for delivering liquid ink in an inkjet printing apparatus has been developed. The system includes an inkjet printing apparatus configured with an ink reservoir for storing liquid ink to be ejected by the inkjet printing apparatus a plurality of inkjet ejectors in fluid communication with the ink reservoir each inkjet ejector configured to receive ink from the ink reservoir and eject ink from an aperture formed in each inkjet ejector a receptacle mounted proximate to the plurality of inkjet ejectors that is configured to receive ink purged from the ink reservoir through the plurality of inkjet ejectors the receptacle having an outlet that is fluidly connected to the ink reservoir a one way valve positioned in the outlet of the receptacle a container of liquid ink having an inlet to receive liquid ink and an outlet to supply the liquid ink to the ink reservoir a conduit a pump operatively connected to the conduit and configured for reversible operation and a controller operatively connected to the pump. The ink reservoir has a port that enables ink to flow into the ink reservoir and ink to be pulled from the ink reservoir. The one way valve is configured to enable the ink in the receptacle to flow into the ink reservoir and to resist a flow of ink from the ink reservoir into the receptacle through the outlet of the receptacle. The conduit is fluidly connected to the port of the ink reservoir and to the outlet of the liquid ink container. The controller is configured to operate the pump in a first direction to supply ink from the container of liquid ink to the ink reservoir through the port and to operate the pump in the second direction to generate negative pressure at the port of the ink reservoir to open the one way valve and pull ink from the receptacle into the ink reservoir through the outlet of the receptacle.

A method of supplying ink to an inkjet printing apparatus has been developed. The method includes operating a pressure source in a first mode to pump ink into an ink reservoir that stores liquid ink to be ejected by an inkjet printing apparatus for a first predetermined period of time and operating the pressure source in a second mode to apply a negative pressure to an outlet of a receptacle for a second predetermined period of time in response to operation of the pressure source in the first mode.

In at least another embodiment an inkjet printing apparatus has been developed. The apparatus includes an ink reservoir for storing liquid ink a plurality of inkjet ejectors in fluid communication with the ink reservoir a receptacle mounted proximate to the plurality of inkjet ejectors an ink supply fluidly connected to the receptacle through a first one way valve a port in the ink reservoir that fluidly connects the ink reservoir to the ink supply to enable ink in the ink supply to be pumped into the ink reservoir a pressure source operatively connected to the ink supply and the first one way valve and a controller operatively connected to the pressure source. Each inkjet ejector is configured to receive ink from the ink reservoir and eject ink from an aperture formed in each inkjet ejector. The receptacle has an opening configured to receive ink purged from the plurality of inkjet ejectors. The first one way valve is configured to resist a flow of ink from the ink supply into the receptacle through the outlet. The controller is configured to operate the pressure source in a first direction to pump ink from the ink supply into the ink reservoir for a first predetermined time period and to operate the pressure source in a second direction to pull ink from the ink receptacle through the first one way valve for a second predetermined period of time.

For a general understanding of the environment for the system and method disclosed herein as well as the details for the system and method reference is made to the drawings. In the drawings like reference numerals have been used throughout to designate like elements. The term meniscus strength refers to an attraction of a liquid such as ink to a material surrounding an opening in a material such as a pore in a membrane positioned across a path for the liquid. The meniscus strength holds the liquid in the pore until a higher pressure is reached that breaks the liquid attraction to the membrane material and pulls gas through the pore. Consequently a membrane having wetted pores enables liquids to be pulled through the pores of the membrane while preventing a gas from passing through the membrane as long as the pressure across the wetted pores remains below the pressure that breaks the meniscus. The term weir refers to a wall positioned within a chamber that is as wide as the chamber but not as tall as the chamber. Thus liquid builds behind the weir until it reaches the top of the weir and then overflows into the chamber. In this manner the liquid level on the two sides of the weir may be maintained at different heights. The term conduit refers to a body having a passageway or lumen through it for the transport of a liquid or a gas. As used herein purging ink refers to any emission of ink from an inkjet ejector that does not land on an image receiving member whether deliberate or accidental. Purged ink refers to ink emitted from the ejector during purging.

Referring to an inkjet printing apparatus having a pressurized filter configuration that is operatively connected to an external ink supply is depicted. Inkjet printing apparatus includes a manifold chamber vent weir inkjet ejectors inlet chamber and an ink receptacle mounted proximate to the inkjet ejectors . An actuator such as a solenoid is positioned at an opening of vent and the actuator opens during printing operations to allow an outside gas such as air to enter the manifold . When vent is opened pressure along the inkjet ejectors is equalized allowing ink supply in manifold to replenish inkjet ejectors during printing operations. Inkjet ejectors are shown in direct fluid communication with manifold in but in various alternative embodiments the ejectors can be somewhat distant from the manifold and may be coupled to an ink supply through various conduits and intermediate chambers. Manifold holds ink until the action of the diaphragms in the inkjet ejectors produce negative pressure that pulls ink from the manifold into the inkjet ejectors and then ejects the ink through apertures in the inkjet ejectors . The ejectors are formed with an inkjet ejector stack as is well known in the art. Ink purged through the inkjet ejectors in a manner described more fully below flows down from the apertures and is collected in the receptacle .

Ink inlet chamber includes a port a weir and a reservoir filter . Ink inlet chamber may be placed in fluid communication with a conduit such as conduit through port through the side of inlet chamber . Reservoir filter is placed between weir and port . In the embodiment of reservoir filter is a membrane including a plurality of pores with each pore being approximately 10 m in size and the reservoir filter extends across the entire width and height of the ink inlet chamber . Weir extends upwards between ink inlet chamber and manifold and maintains a higher level of ink in the ink inlet chamber than the level of ink in manifold . The ink inlet chamber is fluidly coupled to receptacle via a one way valve .

Receptacle is mounted proximate to inkjet ejectors and includes a receptacle ink inlet with a receptacle filter extending across an opening between receptacle inlet and an outlet . Ink purged from manifold through inkjet ejectors flows into the receptacle through receptacle inlet . Receptacle filter may be formed from a porous membrane having pores of a similar size to the pores in reservoir filter . One way valve is positioned over outlet and is configured to permit ink to flow from receptacle into the ink inlet chamber . The one way valve includes a ball and a valve opening formed in a wall of the ink inlet chamber . In the configuration of gravity pulls ball down to cover outlet of the receptacle and impede the flow of ink from the inlet chamber into the receptacle . The one way valve is configured to allow ink to flow from the receptacle to the ink inlet chamber when a negative pressure sufficient to unseat the ball is applied to port . The amount of negative pressure needed to unseat the ball is determined at least in part by the diameter of the outlet . In the configuration of the one way valve is closed with the ball seated in the outlet . In this configuration ink from ink inlet chamber is blocked from flowing into the receptacle .

The one way valve enables purged ink to be returned to the ink reservoir of the inkjet printing apparatus . Consequently a second conduit fluidly coupling the receptacle to the ink supply is not needed. Thus the structure of the inkjet printing apparatus is more efficient than previously known inkjet printing apparatuses. In practical embodiments however the efficiency provided by one way valve may be offset by leakage into the external ink reservoir through the one way valve from the ink inlet chamber . This leakage may occur from the range of mechanical tolerances for the components used to manufacture one way valves of the size required in inkjet printheads.

An external ink supply is operatively connected to the inkjet printing apparatus via conduit which may be an ink umbilical. External ink supply includes an ink reservoir and a pump . The ink reservoir is in fluid communication with conduit and the pump is configured to operate in a forward direction and a reverse direction. That is pump may be operated in one direction to produce positive pressure to expel ink from the supply through the conduit into the inlet chamber and in the opposite direction to produce negative pressure to pull ink from either inlet chamber and or receptacle . In aqueous ink printers the liquid ink may be held in an ink cartridge while in phase change ink printers solid ink may be liquefied using a heated melt plate and fed to reservoir . Pump is shown operating in the forward direction in where the forward direction supplies ink from external ink supply to inkjet printing apparatus via conduit . In the embodiment of pump is a gear pump although alternative pumps configured to pump in the forward and reverse directions may be used.

Ink is pumped to and from external ink supply under pressure and the level of negative pressure applied to the ink by pump is maintained at predetermined levels while operating external ink supply . The level of negative pressure is sufficient to withdraw ink from inkjet printing apparatus while being lower than the pressure needed to draw air past filters and as discussed in further detail below. The external ink supply may include a bypass relief valve operatively coupled to the fluid path of pump . A bypass relief path restricts the flow of ink from ink inlet chamber to external ink supply when bypass relief valve opens in response to negative pressure applied by pump . Bypass relief path and bypass relief valve act as a flow restrictor that establishes a predetermined negative pressure level for the pump that is below the pressure needed to draw air past filters and . One such bypass relief valve is described in further detail in co pending application Ser. No. 12 847 829 entitled LIQUID INK DELIVERY SYSTEM INCLUDING A FLOW RESTRICTOR THAT RESISTS AIR BUBBLE FORMATION IN A LIQUID INK RESERVOIR which was filed on Jul. 30 2010 and has a common assignee to the present application. Other devices and control methods may also be used to regulate the pressures both negative and positive produced by the pump .

In operation the pumping action of pump applies positive pressure to ink in conduit through port into ink inlet chamber . The positive pressure is sufficient to urge additional ink into ink supply which substantially fills ink inlet chamber . As additional ink is added to ink supply under positive pressure excess ink passes through reservoir filter and flows over the top of weir into the ink manifold in direction . One way valve may allow a quantity of ink to leak into ink receptacle forming ink . The pump may operate in a reverse direction for a predetermined time period to apply a negative pressure to withdraw the ink from the ink receptacle .

The operations of components in inkjet printing apparatus and external ink supply including but not limited to opening and closing the actuator of vent operating pump and operating inkjet ejectors are governed by a controller . Typical embodiments of the controller include a microprocessor device such as a central processing unit CPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable device or a microcontroller. Controller may operate the inkjet printing apparatus and external ink supply in accordance with software or firmware commands. Various printing devices may employ one or multiple electronic devices providing the functionality of controller . The controller is configured with electrical components and programmed instructions stored in memory operatively connected to the controller to perform the functions described in this document along with other known functions for operating an inkjet printer.

Referring to an inkjet printing apparatus having a non pressurized filter configuration that is operatively connected to an external ink supply is depicted. Inkjet printing apparatus includes a manifold chamber port vent inkjet ejectors reservoir filter and an ink receptacle mounted externally to the manifold chamber . Reservoir filter is interposed between inkjet ejectors and port . Reservoir filter is a membrane having a plurality of pores approximately 10 m in diameter. An actuator such as a solenoid is positioned at an opening of vent and is opened during printing operations to allow an outside gas such as air to enter the manifold . When vent is opened pressure along the inkjet ejectors is equalized allowing ink supply in manifold to replenish inkjet ejectors during printing operations. Inkjet ejectors are shown in direct fluid communication with manifold in but in various alternative embodiments the ejectors can be somewhat distant from the manifold and may be coupled to an ink supply through various conduits and intermediate chambers. Manifold holds ink until the action of the diaphragms in the inkjet ejectors produce negative pressure that pulls ink from the manifold into the inkjet ejectors and then ejects the ink through apertures in the inkjet ejectors . The ejectors are formed with an inkjet ejector stack as is well known in the art. Ink purged through the inkjet ejectors in a manner described more fully below flows down from the apertures and is collected in the receptacle .

Receptacle is proximate to inkjet ejectors and includes a receptacle filter placed between a receptacle inlet and an outlet . In the embodiment of filter is a membrane having a plurality of pores approximately 70 m in diameter. A one way valve allows ink in the receptacle to be pumped through an internal conduit into ink manifold while impeding ink from flowing into receptacle through outlet . One way valve includes a ball which is seated over outlet and held in place by gravity in the closed position seen in . In the embodiment of internal conduit extends upward from the one way valve above the level of ink in the manifold . The internal conduit prevents ink from coming into contact with the one way valve . Internal conduit may be omitted from alternative inkjet printing apparatus embodiments. A quantity of ink held in internal conduit may leak back through the valve as seen by ink in the ink receptacle and some or all of ink may be withdrawn by reverse action of pump .

The external ink supply of is the same as the external ink supply of including reservoir pump and bypass relief valve although alternative external ink supplies for non pressurized inkjet printing apparatuses may be used as well. For example a smaller capacity pump may used to supply ink to a non pressurized inkjet printing apparatus since there is no need to pump ink with pressure sufficient to overcome a weir or the like. Both the pressurized inkjet printing apparatus and non pressurized inkjet printing apparatus are placed in fluid communication with the external ink supply via the single conduit . Additionally while the external ink supply is depicted as being above ports and in inkjet printing apparatuses and respectively the external ink supply may be located above or below the inkjet printing apparatus in operation. In pump operates in the forward direction pumping ink from reservoir through conduit in direction where the ink passes through port and joins ink supply in the manifold .

A controller governs the operations of components in inkjet printing apparatus and external ink supply including but not limited to opening and closing the actuator of vent operating pump and operating inkjet ejectors . Typical embodiments of the controller include a microprocessor device such as a central processing unit CPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable device or a microcontroller. Controller may use the same or similar electronic components to that of controller in in a configuration suitable for operation with the non pressurized inkjet printing apparatus .

Referring to inkjet printing apparatus and external ink supply are depicted reclaiming purged ink. During a purge operation ink from manifold is driven from inkjet printing apparatus through inkjet ejectors . During the purge operation the solenoid actuator of vent may be closed as ink is urged through the ejectors in the inkjet printing apparatus by pressure supplied to the manifold of the inkjet printing apparatus. Unlike normal imaging operations in which ink is ejected away inkjet ejectors in the form of drops the purged ink flows down the apertures of inkjet ejectors into the receptacle inlet and into receptacle . Receptacle collects purged ink for reclamation.

In order to reclaim the purged ink controller operates pump in the reverse direction seen in applying negative pressure to withdraw ink from inkjet printing apparatus . The negative pressure applied by pump is sufficient to withdraw ink from the ink inlet chamber through port . Ink withdrawn through port may be introduced into ink reservoir . During withdrawal some or all of the ink volume behind the weir may be withdrawn as shown in by ink partially covering one side of weir . As ink is withdrawn from the weir the surface area of reservoir filter contacting ink in weir decreases and the negative pressure needed to withdraw ink from behind weir exceeds the negative pressure needed to open one way valve . One way valve opens in response to the negative pressure with ball pulled out of outlet in direction . Once one way valve is opened purged ink is withdrawn into the ink inlet chamber . A similar operation may be performed to withdraw ink held in receptacle during operation.

The negative pressure applied by pump is selected to be sufficient to withdraw ink from the receptacle and less than a pressure that would draw gas into the ink held in the ink inlet chamber . Ink in the inlet chamber held between port and reservoir filter wets filter . Ink in the receptacle held between filter and outlet wets filter . The ink meniscus maintained across each pore in filters and impedes outside gas such as air from passing into the ink mass held in the ink inlet . For the example pressurized inkjet printing apparatus pump withdraws ink with a pressure in a range from above about 0.3 psi to below about 0.6 psi. The lower pressure bound is determined by the negative pressure needed to open the one way valve and the higher pressure bound is determined by the meniscus strength of ink on the reservoir filters.

Referring to inkjet printing apparatus and external ink supply are depicted in operation reclaiming purged ink . Ink in manifold is purged through inkjet ejectors and the ink subsequently flows into the receptacle through opening . Receptacle holds purged ink for reclamation.

In order to reclaim the purged ink controller operates pump in the reverse direction seen in applying a negative pressure to withdraw gas from manifold through port . The gas typically air is pumped through conduit in direction and is directed away from ink reservoir so as to prevent air bubbles from forming in ink held in ink reservoir . As air is removed from manifold a partial vacuum is formed. The actuator maintains vent in the closed position in . Additionally ink wetting reservoir filter forms a meniscus that resists a flow of air from inkjet ejectors into the manifold with a higher relative resistance pressure than the pressure needed to open one way valve . Thus the partial vacuum in manifold pulls ball upwards in direction opening one way valve . Purged ink is withdrawn from the receptacle through the opened one way valve and internal conduit where the ink passes through the outlet of internal conduit in direction replenishing manifold . A similar operation may be performed to withdraw ink that may leak into the external ink reservoir during operation.

The negative pressure applied by the pump is sufficient to open the one way valve and to withdraw the purged ink from the receptacle to the ink manifold . The negative pressure applied by the pump is also low enough to prevent air bubbles from crossing the receptacle filter . In the embodiment of the meniscus strength of ink wetting the receptacle filter is sufficient to prevent air bubbles from forming in the purged ink for negative pressures with a magnitude of less than 0.6 psi.

In both of the exemplary inkjet printing apparatuses and ink is supplied and withdrawn using a single conduit in fluid communication with a port extending through the ink reservoir of each inkjet printing apparatus. Both inkjet printing apparatus and inkjet printing apparatus place an ink receptacle in selective fluid communication with an ink reservoir using a one way valve to impede ink from flowing out of the ink reservoir. Additionally during operation filters and in inkjet printing apparatus and receptacle filter in inkjet printing apparatus are each wetted with ink forming a meniscus that impedes the formation of air bubbles within the ink reservoirs of inkjet printing apparatus and inkjet printing apparatus respectively.

In the embodiment of conduits and fluidly communicate with the ink supply through check valves and respectively. Check valve closes when pump applies an insufficient magnitude of positive pressure and check valve biases closed when pump applies an insufficient magnitude of negative pressure. Alternative embodiments may omit check valve allowing pump to withdraw a small quantity of ink from ink inlet when operating in the reverse mode.

Check valves and may experience a degree of leakage even when biased closed. Pump may urge some ink into conduit and the receptacle during forward operation of the pump. Some of the leaked ink may enter receptacle and become part of ink volume held behind a porous membrane . Some of the leaked ink may pass through membrane and be retained in the ink collection volume of the ink receptacle.

While ink supply includes a gear pump configured to apply an appropriate level of negative pressure alternative pumping mechanisms configured to supply similar levels of negative pressure may also be used. As described in more detail below pump may periodically operate in the reverse direction for predetermined lengths of time to withdraw leaked ink from ink receptacle .

The pump applies negative pressure at predetermined intervals block . This negative pressure withdraws ink which may leak into a receptacle that is additionally configured to hold purged ink. Ink may leak through a one way valve as shown in or or through a membrane as shown in . In embodiments using a single conduit such as or the pump applies negative pressure to an ink reservoir through the conduit. In alternative embodiments using multiple conduits such as the pump applies negative pressure to the ink receptacle through a conduit operatively connected to the receptacle. The amount of negative pressure applied is regulated to be high enough to withdraw the ink while also being low enough to avoid forming gas bubbles in the ink held in the ink reservoir. A pump that supplies the positive pressure may operate in a reverse direction to apply the negative pressure.

The negative pressure is applied for a predetermined time period that is typically shorter than the time period for applying positive pressure. In one embodiment negative pressure is applied for one second after a nine second application of positive pressure while in another embodiment the pump applies negative pressure for one second after applying positive pressure for fourteen seconds. The duration and frequency of negative pressure applications reduce the accumulation of leaked ink in the ink collection area of the ink receptacle.

Process determines if the ink reservoir in the inkjet printing apparatus is full block . Fluid level sensors placed within the reservoir may determine when the reservoir is full or the reservoir may be considered full once a predetermined volume of ink is pumped into the reservoir. If the identified level of ink in the reservoir indicates that the reservoir is full then pressure is no longer applied block . If the identified level of ink indicates that the reservoir is not full the pump may apply positive pressure to supply more ink block .

It will be appreciated that variants of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems applications or methods. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

