---

title: Method and system for providing context aware communication
abstract: A method for processing a message received by a client device over a mobile communication network is provided. The method enables, firstly, applying one or more predetermined rules on the message. The one or more predetermined rules facilitate modifying the message by removing unwanted words therefrom. Secondly, the method enables matching keywords in the modified message with keywords stored in a keyword database to extract context from the message. Finally, the method enables rendering the extracted context on a user interface screen of the client device. The extracted context is customizable by a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08412695&OS=08412695&RS=08412695
owner: Infosys Technologies Limited
number: 08412695
owner_city: 
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20100524
---
The present invention relates to analyzing context of messages and providing relevant information based on the context and more specifically to provide a system and method for comprehending messages extracting relevant context and delivering relevant non intrusive targeted content to users of electronic communication device.

With the advancement in telecommunication and information technology various modes of communication means have been employed to transfer content. Apart from voice messaging various kinds of short messaging service SMS and multimedia messaging service MMS have been employed as a communication means amongst mobile users for person to person messaging accessing information and entertainment content from various web servers.

SMS has captured a significant market share in person to person messaging and is now increasingly being used for accessing information stored on the network of mobile communication operators. Even when the recipient mobile is switched off or out of reach of the mobile network the message is made available to the recipient when the recipient logs on to the network. The SMS and MMS messaging system is a store and forward messaging system. Also the messages transferred between various users are not intelligent enough to generate dynamic rendering of different contents based on the context of the messages. There is not much which the users can do with the messages which are received or transferred from one user to another user in terms of context based searching. For example if the users are transferring messages related to a particular activity and wishes that the messages which are transferred should also suggest various options available on the World Wide Web WWW related to a particular activity.

In light of the abovementioned disadvantages there is a need for a system and method to analyze messages exchanged between various users extract relevant context and provide relevant information based on extracted context. In addition there is a need for delivering relevant non intrusive targeted content to users of electronic communication device based on context of the messages.

A method for processing a message received by a client device over a mobile communication network is provided. The method comprises firstly applying one or more predetermined rules on the message. The one or more predetermined rules facilitate modifying the message by removing unwanted words therefrom. Secondly the method comprises matching keywords in the modified message with keywords stored in a keyword database to extract context from the message. Finally the method comprises rendering the extracted context on a user interface screen of the client device. The extracted context is customizable by a user.

In an embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises facilitating a user to insert a keyword related to the message in the keyword database. In another embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises retrieving web content when a user invokes a web search using the extracted context. In another embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises firstly customizing the extracted context. Secondly the method comprises retrieving web content when a user invokes a web search using the customized context.

In an embodiment of the present invention applying one or more predetermined rules on the message comprises at least one of eliminating words with letters less than or equal to four from the message or voice eliminating numeric values from the message or voice and applying auto text correction on the words in the message or voice. In another embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises retrieving geographical location of the user employing at least one of cell identification ID of the client device and information from Global Positioning System GPS enabled client device. In an embodiment if the present invention the method further comprises rendering the extracted context appended with location information of the user on the user interface screen of the client device.

In an embodiment of the present invention a method for processing a message received by a client device over a mobile communication network is provided. The method comprises firstly applying one or more predetermined rules on the message. The one or more predetermined rules facilitate modifying the message by removing unwanted words therefrom. Secondly the method comprises matching keywords in the modified message with keywords stored in a keyword database to extract context from the message. The method further comprises rendering the extracted context on a user interface screen of the client device. The extracted context is customizable by a user. Finally the method comprises retrieving web content when a user invokes a web search using the extracted context.

A client device for processing a message received over a mobile communication network is provided. The client device comprises a keyword database configured to store keywords related to the message. The client device further comprises a context extractor module configured to extract context from the message by matching words in the message with keywords stored in the keyword database. The context extractor module comprises a rule processing module configured to store one or more predetermined rules. The one or more predetermined rules are adapted to be applied on the message in order to modify the message by removing unwanted words therefrom.

In an embodiment of the present invention the client device further comprises a processor module configured to facilitate the user to dynamically insert a keyword in the keyword database. The processor module further facilitates the user to invoke a web search based on the extracted context. The extracted context is customizable by the user.

In an embodiment of the present invention the client device further comprises a web based search module configured to retrieve web content related to at least one of the extracted context and customized context from a backend web based server. The client device communicates with the backend web based server over a telecommunication network. In another embodiment of the present invention the web content includes at least one of web pages RSS feeds and Atom based feeds. In an embodiment of the present invention the keywords are pre stored in the keyword database.

A client device for processing a message received over a mobile communication network is provided. The client device comprises a keyword database configured to store keywords related to the message. The client device further comprises a context extractor module configured to extract context from the message by matching words in the message with keywords stored in the keyword database. The context extractor module comprises a rule processing module configured to store one or more predetermined rules. The one or more predetermined rules are adapted to be applied on the message in order to modify the message by removing unwanted words therefrom. Furthermore the client device comprises a processor module configured to facilitate the user to invoke a web search based on the extracted context. The extracted context is customizable by the user.

The present invention is described by way of embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein 

A method and system for providing context aware communication is described herein. The invention provides for a method and system that enables to analyze context of conversation between users. The conversation may be via various communication services such as SMS and MMS. Further the invention facilitates the user to retrieve information such as web search results effectively based on the context thereby enhancing user experience.

The following disclosure is provided in order to enable a person having ordinary skill in the art to practice the invention. Exemplary embodiments are provided only for illustrative purposes and various modifications will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art. The general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Also the terminology and phraseology used is for the purpose of describing exemplary embodiments and should not be considered limiting. Thus the present invention is to be accorded the widest scope encompassing numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents consistent with the principles and features disclosed. For purpose of clarity details relating to technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

The present invention would now be discussed in context of embodiments as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

The client device is an electronic communication device which may be used by one or more users to communicate with each other over the mobile communication network. In various embodiments of the present invention the client device may be a wireless handheld device which users use to communicate via various communication services such as SMS and MMS. Examples of client device include mobile phones personal digital assistants portable telephones wired telephones internet appliances personal communication systems etc. The message application module in the client device facilitates to extract the context of incoming message and display the same on the client device . The message application module further facilitates the user of the client device to invoke a web search using the extracted context to retrieve desired search results. In an embodiment of the present invention the web search may be invoked using the web server .

Web server is an entity hosting an application or computer program for processing web service requests made by the client device . In various embodiments of the present invention the web server facilitates searching of information on the World Wide Web and transmitting the search results to the client device over the mobile or data communication network . In another embodiment of the present invention the web server may be integrated with a third party server such as an advertisement platform to facilitate transmission of web search results along with relevant advertisements to the client device over the mobile or data communication network .

Mobile or data communication network is a telecommunication network via which various user terminals communicate with each other using communication standards. Examples of mobile communication standards include but are not limited to Global System for Mobile communication GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or any other mobile telephony standards. Examples of data communication network include internet or any other network connecting computer networks. In various embodiments of the present invention the client device interacts with the web server over the mobile or data communication network to retrieve web search results or advertisements. The web search results or advertisements are relevant to the context of conversation of the incoming message as analyzed by the message application module .

The receptor module is a telecommunication module that facilitates reception of incoming message in the client device . Examples of message include SMS and MMS. In an embodiment of the present invention the receptor module alerts the user of the incoming SMS by means of a notification icon which is rendered on the user interface screen of the client device . In another embodiment of the present invention the notification can be enabled by a vibrator or speaker module of the client device . Further the receptor module stores the SMS in a database not shown .

In another embodiment of the present invention context may also be extracted from an incoming voice call message. In case of voice call message a voice to text converter not shown converts the received voice to text for further processing. The voice to text converter is a software module which may reside within or outside the receptor module . Examples of voice to text converter may be conventional software s such as Dragon Systems dragon dictate or IBM s VoiceType dictation Voxette IBM Viva Voice Windows Speech Synthesizer that selects appropriate words after comparing the acoustic words in a stored voice profile with a language model or any other solution that implements voice to text conversion. The voice to text converter further defines the selected words in a text format such as American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII or any other suitable text format. The receptor module transmits the received message converted text to the processor module .

The processor module is a computing device which enables processing of the received message in the client device . In various embodiments of the present invention the processor module facilitates display of the SMSs stored in the database not shown to enable the user to select an SMS from the list of SMSs which are displayed. In an embodiment of the present invention the processor module operates in conjunction with the context extractor module and displays the extracted context on the user interface screen of the client device . The processor module also facilitates the user to customize the extracted context that is displayed on the user interface screen of the client device . The processor module also facilitates the user to configure the keyword database by adding a keyword in the keyword database . The processor module further operates in conjuction with the web based search module to facilitate the user to query on the extracted context or the customized context.

Context extractor module is a software module which operates in conjunction with the processor module to facilitate extraction of context from the received message and renders the extracted context on the client device . In an embodiment of the present invention the context extractor module intelligently extracts keywords from the SMS by analyzing it based on one or more predetermined rules. In yet another embodiment of the present invention the context from the SMS is extracted by matching words in the analyzed SMS with keywords stored in the keyword database . In an example the keyword database may be a lexicon database which facilitates the context extractor module to access a data structure stored therein to determine a keyword that most likely corresponds to the SMS. The contents extracted by the content extractor can be used to invoke a web search using the web based search module .

The web based search module is a software module which facilitates the user to initiate a web search using the context that is extracted or the customized extracted context and retrieves related information from web. In various embodiments of the present invention the web based search module invokes the web server with the extracted or customized context to retrieve web search results. In an embodiment of the present invention the web based search module receives parses and displays web feeds obtained from the web server . Web feed is a data format which facilitates the users to receive frequently updated content.

The web server further comprises a content aggregator and a content provider . The content aggregator is an entity that combines data from different web sources into an integrated web application. Thus the content aggregator provides the users access to contents from multiple web data sources. In various embodiments of the present invention the content aggregator aggregates content from different content providers and provides the content as web feeds such as Really Simple Sindication RSS feeds for processing by the web based search module . In an exemplary embodiment the content aggregator may be a data mashup tool e.g. yahoo pipes that provides a graphical user interface for building data mashups. The data mashups aggregate web feeds web pages and other services creating web based applications from various content providers. Further the data mashups facilitates publishing of the web applications.

The content provider is an entity which facilitates searching of information on the World Wide Web. In various embodiments of the present invention the content provider comprises various search engines using which content can be retrieved from the World Wide Web to deliver search results on the client device . Examples of search engine include but are not limited to Google Yahoo etc.

The handler is a software module which performs SMS handling and facilitates the user of the client device to be notified of an incoming SMS for commencing the context extraction process. In an embodiment of the present invention the handler provides a non intrusive short notification icon or alert on the user interface screen of the client device which indicates receipt of the SMS to the user. For instance the notification icon may embody name or phone number e.g. Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network Number MSISDN of the sender of the SMS and the message body of the SMS. In an example the handler uses information stored in a contact database to display the notification icon. The contact database may contain sender information such as name contact number etc. The handler extracts logical information such as the MSISDN from the incoming SMS and maps the same with the information stored in the contact database . Thereafter the handler retrieves the sender information and displays the same on the user interface screen of the client device . Further the handler stores the received SMS in a database .

The processor module comprises an inbox module and a reader module . In various embodiments of the present invention the inbox module when activated by the user fetches the SMSs stored in the database . The inbox module displays a list of the SMSs on the user interface screen. The user can select a particular SMS from the list to read the complete SMS.

The reader module is invoked when the user selects a particular SMS. The reader module displays the complete SMS selected by the user. In an embodiment of the present invention the reader module enables display of the context which is extracted by the context extractor module . In another embodiment of the present invention the reader module provides a context editor functionality which facilitates the user to edit the extracted context. In yet another embodiment of the present invention the reader module facilitates improvisations of the context using a most recently used list of contexts information related to the sender of the SMS etc. In yet another embodiment of the present invention the reader module prompts the user to trigger a web search using the extracted context. In an embodiment of the present invention the reader module also faciliates caching of search results that are retrieved by the web search module .

The context extractor module is configured to extract keywords out of message body of the SMS identifying the context and rendering the extracted context on the client device . In an embodiment of the present invention the number of words that can be extracted from the SMS may be configured. For example the number of words that can be extracted from the SMS may be configured to be three. In an embodiment of the present invention the context extractor module comprises interfaces that are generic and pluggable for usage. For example the context extractor module can be made pluggable with any third party application such as an advertisement platform to infer the context and provide relevant advertisements to the user. In an embodiment of the present invention the context extractor module comprises a rule processing module .

The rule processing module is a software module which comprises a set of predetermined logic rules. The rule processing module may reside as a program file in the context extractor module wherein the rules may be configured dynamically. The predetermined rules are applied on the SMS for extracting context i.e. keywords from the SMS

In another embodiment of the present invention application of rules may result in filtering unwanted text. For example ignoring words in the SMS which are less than or equal to four letters as short words are generally not meaningful. Further numbers contained in the SMS may be ignored. Furthermore if words in the SMS contain alphanumeric values then each word is checked for possible spelling mistakes using Auto Text Application Programming Interface API . Auto Text is a software which facilitates automatic text correction e.g. T9 dictionary. If Auto Text returns any valid word then that word may be used. If a valid word is not returned the alphanumeric word may be discarded. Further for normal words too possible spelling mistakes may be checked using AutoText feature.

In various embodiments of the present invention the context extractor module uses a keyword database for extracting keywords from the SMS. In particular after applying the predetermined rules to the SMS the context extractor module extracts keywords from the SMS for rendering on the client device by performing a keyword match with the keywords stored in the keyword database . The keyword Database is pre stored with frequently used words in SMS. Examples of the keywords may include but are not limited to pizza movie shop mall food match tennis sports bank finance etc. In another embodiment of the present invention the processor module also facilitates the user to dynamically configure the keyword database by inserting a keyword in the keyword database . In an embodiment of the present invention the keywords may be stored using a mobile device database such as SQLite.

In various embodiments of the present invention the extracted context is rendered along with geographical location information of the user. Location of the user can be retrieved using multiple ways. In an embodiment of the present invention if the client device is Global Positioning System GPS enabled the latitude and longitude of the client device can be retrieved directly. In yet another embodiment of the present invention if the client device is not GPS enabled the cell id of the client device when the client device is a mobile phone can be used to retrieve the location of the user.

In another embodiment of the present invention the context extractor module uses profile information of the user to understand the user s requirement preferences and customize the context suitably thereby enhancing the context. For example user s age may be used as another parameter for extracting the context. The profile information of the user may comprise demographic details such as race age etc. and web search results of the user. The profile information of the user can be retrieved from the user s service provider or can be stored in a user profile database not shown in the web based server . In an embodiment of the present invention the context extractor module facilitates rendering of highlighted context onto the reader module for the user to make subsequent backend queries using the web based search module .

The web based search module comprises a web page or web feed module a web feed parser a Uniform Resource Locator URL editor and a browser module . In various embodiments of the present invention the web based search module is a software module that invokes the web server to retrieve relevant search results based on the user s query i.e. the extracted and customized context .

The web page module or web feed module is a software module that invokes the web server and retrieves content from the web server when the user triggers a web search based on the extracted context. Further if the user edits the extracted keywords the web search is triggered based on the edited context.

The web feed parser is a software module that parses the content retrieved by the web page module or web feed module for displaying articles associated with the web feed. In an embodiment of the present invention the web feed parser may be a RSS parser which analyzes the content received as RSS feeds from the content providers e.g. yahoo. Google etc. for display. In another embodiment of the present invention the web feed may be Atom based.

The URL editor maintains a list of URL s associated with the articles received as search results and facilitates the user to click onto the URL of the selected article for reading.

The browser module is a software module which facilitates display of the article selected from the content retrieved. Examples of browser may be mobile device browsers such as Opera Mini safari Skyfire. In various embodiments of the present invention the user can browse through the articles using in built browser support.

When SMS is received by the client device such as a mobile device a notification icon is displayed which indicates receipt of the SMS. When user clicks onto the notification icon the inbox module is launched. The inbox module facilitates display of a preview of the SMS which is received and all other SMS received previously. In this example the SMS received by the client device is Let s order a pizza at home . As shown in when the user selects this SMS the complete SMS is displayed to the user via the reader module. Further the context pizza order is extracted and displayed in a search text box on the user interface screen of the mobile device. Based on the extracted context the user can trigger a web search to retrieve relevant search results by pressing Go button on the user interface screen of the mobile device. Subsequently content is received based on the search query and the user may view the content by clicking a particular URL from a list of URLs.

Further the user can also edit the extracted context and invoke web search. Also location information of the user is extracted. In particular in this example when the SMS is 

Applying location latitude longitude information with the extracted context from the above SMS facilitates the user to identify the nearest pizza store location.

At step a message is read. In various embodiments of the present invention the message such as SMS is received by a client device. The receipt of message is notified on a user interface screen of the client device. Activation of a reader module in the client device facilitates the user to read the SMS.

At step predetermined rules are applied to the message. In various embodiments of the present invention the context extraction module applies rules on the SMS using a rule processing module to facilitate efficient extraction of context from the SMS by filtering unwanted text. In an embodiment of the present invention words in the SMS which are less than or equal to four letters are ignored as short words and may not be meaningful. For example if the SMS received is Lets order a pizza words such as lets and a are removed. In another embodiment of the present invention numeric values present in the SMS are removed. For example if the SMS reads Lets order 2 pizzas the number 2 is removed.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention if words in the SMS contain alphanumeric values then each word is checked for possible spelling mistakes using Auto Text Application Programming Interface API . If Auto Text returns any valid word then that word may be used. If a valid word is not returned the alphanumeric word may be discarded. Further for normal words too possible spelling mistakes may be checked using AutoText feature. If Auto Text returns any valid word then that word may be used

At step context is extracted from the message by matching keywords in the SMS with keywords stored in a keyword database. In various embodiments of the present invention the context extractor module uses the keyword database for extracting keywords from the SMS. After applying the predetermined rules to the SMS the context extractor module extracts keywords from the SMS by performing a keyword match with the keywords stored in the keyword database. For example order pizza may be extracted from the SMS Lets order a pizza . In another embodiment of the present invention location information of the user may be retrieved from the cell id of the user. Alternately if the client device is GPS enabled latitude longitude information of the client device may be retrieved directly.

At step the extracted context is rendered on a client device. In various embodiments of the present invention the context extractor module facilitates rendering of the extracted context on the client device. For example order pizza may be rendered on the user interface screen of the client device. In another embodiment extracted context may be rendered along with location information appended to it. For example order pizza San Francisco Calif. 94114 .

At step a check is performed to determine if there is any need to customize the context. In various embodiments of the present invention the user is prompted to customize the rendered context. This would facilitate the user to modify the context which is extracted and rendered.

If there is a need to customize the context then at step web search is invoked based on the customized context. In various embodiments of the present invention the user edits the extracted context. For example if the rendered context is order pizza the user may modify it to order dominos . Thereafter the user invokes a web search for searching information on order dominos . In another embodiment of the present invention the location information appended may facilitate the user to conduct local search. In such a case the action would be to search for dominos in San Francisco.

If the context is not customized then at step web search is invoked based on the extracted context. In various embodiments of the present invention if the user does not intend to modify the extracted context the user may invoke a web search using the extracted context i.e. order pizza 

At step search results are retrieved. In various embodiments of the present invention search results are obtained in the form of URL and the user can click and navigate according to his needs. In an embodiment of the present invention search results are obtained as web feeds e.g. RSS Atom feeds etc. which the user can view using a browser module such as etc. The search results are provided by a web server which is configured to aggregate content from multiple sources such as Yahoo Google MSN etc. and render content as RSS feeds. A web based search module in the client device is capable of receiving parsing and displaying the RSS outputs to the user.

The present invention may be implemented in numerous ways including as a apparatus method or a computer program product such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network wherein programming instructions are communicated from a remote location. Further the present invention can be implemented as software that can be embedded in the client device such as a mobile device at the point of manufacture. Furthermore the software may also be downloaded on the client device from a remote location.

While the exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described and illustrated herein it will be appreciated that they are merely illustrative. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications in form and detail may be made therein without departing from or offending the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

