---

title: Method and device for aiding the management of an aircraft flight receiving a control clearance
abstract: A method for aiding the management of an aircraft flight according to an active flight plan receiving a control clearance transmitted at a current time includes a step of computing a reception flight plan based on the said control clearance, a step of storing the said reception flight plan in a memory space dedicated to the said reception flight plan. The method also includes, prior to the step of computing a reception flight plan: a step of determining the time, called the recognition time, assumed to have to elapse between the current time and a time at which the said control clearance is assumed to be recognized; a step of attribution, to the said control clearance, of a destination flight plan as a function of the recognition time, the said destination flight plan being the temporary flight plan when the recognition time is included in a first time slot and the destination flight plan being a secondary flight plan when the recognition time is included in a second time slot longer than the first time slot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594863&OS=08594863&RS=08594863
owner: Thales
number: 08594863
owner_city: Neuilly sur Seine
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20101001
---
This application claims priority to foreign French patent application No. FR 09 04719 filed on Oct. 2 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates to a method for aiding the management of an aircraft flight receiving flight settings.

The increase in air traffic in the last 50 years and the growth assumptions for the next 20 years are leading to a progressive saturation of the frequency band allocated for aviation voice communications. The solution found by those involved in the aviation world is a progressive migration from voice as a means of communication to the digital link data . This involves converting into a set of given messages the voice instructions and dialogues between the ground and the cockpit. The flight settings thus converted are called flight clearances. The clearances are sent from an air traffic control ATC station on the ground by means of a digital link to a flight management system FMS of an aircraft. The clearances are communicated by the ATC to a ground cockpit communication system called the CMU Communication Management Unit of the FMS. During the flight unexpected events occur that will modify the flight plan that the aircraft is in the process of following called the active flight plan. On this occasion the ATC sends to the aircraft by means of digital links flight clearances that can be classified into several categories 

The navigation aid system FMS conventionally assists the crew in the programming of the flight plan before take off and in following the trajectory of the flight plan from take off to landing. A flight plan is a trajectory assumed to have to be followed by the aircraft. The trajectory comprises a lateral trajectory which is usually characterized by a chronological sequence of segments connecting by twos waypoints described by their position in the horizontal plane and arcs of a circle both for making the heading transitions between segments at the waypoints and for following certain curved segments. The trajectory also comprises a vertical profile corresponding to an estimate of the trajectory of the aircraft in the vertical plane optimized on the lateral trajectory. The waypoints are characterized by their respective passage times.

Conventionally the FMS comprises an FPLN Flight Planning function for managing the flight plans which computes a flight plan. This function conventionally manages a plurality of memory spaces capable of storing various types of flight plan including 

Secondary and temporary flight plans differ in their presentation to the crew different pages different colours different change options different prediction computation assumptions . These types of flight plan are specified in the international aviation standard AEEC ARINC 702A Flight Management System in section 4.3.2 Flight planning . The temporary flight plan respectively secondary flight plan is identified as the modified flight plan respectively the secondary flight plan. 

Currently manufacturers include the control clearances in a default flight plan. In other words a default flight plan is computed based on the control setting. The default flight plan is for certain manufacturers the active flight plan for others the temporary flight plan and for some a secondary flight plan. Because the default flight plan is always the same flight plan the inclusion of a control setting in this flight plan is not always suitable for the use that the pilot makes of it as a function of the flight setting. The pilot is therefore regularly required to transfer a clearance into a flight plan other than that in which it has been included. This type of action is time consuming for the pilot.

Accordingly the subject of the invention is a method for aiding the management of an aircraft flight according to an active flight plan receiving a control clearance transmitted at a current time comprising a step of computing a reception flight plan based on the said control clearance a step of storing the said reception flight plan in a memory space dedicated to the said reception flight plan and prior to the step of computing a reception flight plan.

A further subject of the invention is device for aiding the management of a flight capable of applying the method as described above characterized in that it comprises 

The method for aiding the management of a flight according to the invention makes it possible to insert the control clearances while taking account of their operational use by the crew. In particular it makes it possible to comply with the spirit in which the crew works when the crew makes manual changes of flight plan it naturally works with the temporary flight plan for all the tactical operations and it naturally works in a secondary flight plan for all the strategic operations.

It also makes it possible to reduce the workload of the pilot by reducing the number of manipulations of the flight plan and to improve the speed of recognition of the control clearances. For example the crew is no longer faced with the problem of having to manage a tactical clearance which requires a rapid recognition when the latter has been automatically incorporated into the secondary flight plan. Specifically in this case in the prior art the pilot had to carry out awkward manipulations copies deleting etc. which occupied him considerably for loading this setting into the active flight plan. Moreover these manipulations had the effect of delaying the recognition of the flight clearance. The method according to the invention also makes it possible to prevent polluting the crew with tactical messages that arrive in a secondary or conversely by inserting a strategic clearance into an active flight plan while the pilot is occupied doing other things .

navigation LOC NAV for carrying out the optimal location of the aircraft as a function of the geo location means GEO GPS GALILEO VHF radio beacons inertial navigation units 

navigation database NAV DB for storing data of the points beacons intercept or altitude legs type etc. 

flight plan FPLN for storing the geographic elements entered by an operator constituting the skeleton of the route to be followed namely departure and arrival procedures waypoints and airways and for constructing the flight plan based on these elements and on data stored in the database NAV DB 

performance database PERF DB containing the aerodynamic parameters and the parameters of the engines of the craft 

function for computing a lateral trajectory TRAJ for constructing a continuous trajectory based on the points of the flight plan complying with the performance of the aircraft and the confinement requirements RNP 

guidance function GUID for guiding the aircraft in the lateral and vertical planes on its trajectory while optimizing its speed in association with an automatic pilot PA 

an on board communication computer hereinafter called CMU for Communication Management Unit capable of communicating with the control centres ATC .

The FMS is conventionally connected to a man machine interface MMI comprising one or more display screens and a keyboard .

Shown in the block diagram of is a device according to the invention. The device comprises an on board communication computer CMU which is responsible for receiving the flight settings sent by air traffic controllers . The on board communication computer CMU transmits the control clearances to an analyser router ANA RT referenced which analyses them attributes a destination flight plan to them and transmits them to the flight plan function FPLN which is capable of computing a reception flight plan based on the flight clearance and of storing the reception flight plan thus computed in a memory space dedicated to the storage of the said flight plan. The flight plan function is in reality an assembly comprising a computer not shown and spaces for storing the flight plans. It will be called in the rest of the text a flight plan module for greater clarity.

As will be seen below the destination flight plan is either the temporary flight plan or a secondary flight plan. Shown in in the flight plan module FPLN is an active memory space ACT dedicated to the storage of the active flight plan a temporary memory space TEMP dedicated to the storage of a temporary flight plan a secondary memory space dedicated to the storage of a secondary flight plan SEC and a buffer memory space TAMP dedicated to the storage of a buffer flight plan. As a variant the flight plan module FPLN manages several memory spaces dedicated to several secondary flight plans. This allows the pilot to test independently several modifications. It is possible for example to test in a first memory space dedicated to the secondary flight plan modifications that it is desired to make to the active flight plan and in a second memory space dedicated to the secondary flight plan construct the return flight plan.

The pilot can consult each flight plan except the buffer flight plan by displaying it on a screen of a man machine interface connected to the FMS. As explained above the pilot can also activate the secondary and temporary flight plans that is to say copy the data stored in a temporary or secondary memory space into the active memory space. If the active memory space ACT is occupied these new data replace the data that were stored in the active memory space. A buffer flight plan is a flight plan internal to the flight plan function FPLN not accessible to the pilot that is to say not modifiable or editable by the pilot. On the other hand the pilot can copy a flight plan saved in the buffer memory TAMP into a temporary or secondary memory space. If the temporary or secondary memory space is occupied these new data replace the data that were stored in the temporary or secondary memory space.

As shown in the method for aiding the management of an aircraft flight according to the invention comprises the following steps when the aircraft receives a control clearance CC 

a step of determining the recognition time T assumed to have to elapse between the current time and the time at which the said clearance is recognized 

a step of attributing to the said control clearance CC a destination flight plan PVD according to the recognition time T 

a step of storing the said reception flight plan PVrec thus computed in a memory space REC dedicated to the storage of the said reception flight plan PVrec.

In the method according to the invention the focus is only on the control clearances CC. These are actions to be carried out that have an impact on the flight plan that is to say that are intended to modify the active flight plan. The control clearances are grouped into the following categories 

heading speed altitude clearances which have a respective impact on the heading followed by the aircraft the speed of the aircraft and the altitude of the aircraft. They also include the route clearances by which the air traffic control authorities ask the pilot to modify the waypoints between two elements of the active flight plan.

The actions to be carried out are for example actions to be carried out instantaneously such as for example in a non exhaustive manner for the 

speed clearances messages of the MAINTAIN speed type to maintain a speed equal to speed INCREASE speed to speed increase speed up to a value equal to speed REDUCE speed to speed reduce speed to a value equal to speed ADJUST speed adjust speed DO NOT EXCEED speed do not exceed speed CLIMB AT vertical Rate climb at a vertical speed equal to verticale Rate MAINTAIN PRESENT SPEED maintain present speed MAINTAIN speed TO speed maintain a speed between two limits ADJUST SPEED TO speed adjust speed to speed RESUME NORMAL SPEED resume normal speed NO SPEED RESTRICTION no speed restriction REDUCE TO MINIMUM APPROACH SPEED reduce speed to minimum approach speed .

heading clearances message of the type TURN direction turn in the direction direction FLY PRESENT HEADING follow the present heading FLY HEADING degrees follow the heading degrees STOP TURN HEADING degrees level out wings immediately .

for the instructions for maintaining or changing level they are instructions of the type MAINTAIN or CLIMB TO or DESCEND TO or IMMEDIATELY CLIMB TO level maintain or climb to or descend to or climb immediately to the altitude level MAINTAIN BLOCK level TO level maintain altitude between two limits CRUISE CLIMB TO or ABOVE level climb to a new cruise level level STOP CLIMB or DESCEND AT level stop climbing or descending at the altitude of value level .

route clearances messages of the type CROSS position AT or time or level or speed cross the horizontal position position at the time time or at the altitude level or at the speed speed REJOIN ROUTE BY position or time rejoin the flight plan at the horizontal position position or at the time time OFFSET specifiedDistance direction OF ROUTE fly on a route parallel to the initial route in the direction direction at a distance SpecifiedDistance PROCEED BACK ON ROUTE rejoin the flight plan RESUME OWN NAVIGATION DepartureClearance add a departure procedure DepartureClearance to the flight plan PROCEED DIRECT TO position go directly to the point position WHEN ABLE PROCEED DIRECT TO position CLEARED TO position VIA routeClearance replace the part of the active flight plan between the aeroplane and the point position with a new route Routeclearance CLEARED routeClearance or procedureName replace the route with a route clearance routeClearance or with a procedure procedureName CLEARED TO DEVIATE UP TO specifiedDistance direction OF ROUTE authorization to deviate from the initial route in the direction direction to a distance SpecifiedDistance CROSS position AT OR ABOVE or AT OR BELOW level cross the horizontal position position at least or at most at the altitude level CROSS position BETWEEN level or time or speed AND level or time or speed cross the horizontal position position between two given altitudes or times or speeds CROSS position AT OR BEFORE or AT OR AFTER time cross the horizontal position position at the latest at or at the earliest at the time time . The following clearances are not converted the conversions are deduced from the above conversions CROSS position AT OR BEFORE time AT level CROSS position AT OR AFTER time AT level CROSS position AT AND MAINTAIN level AT speed AT time CROSS position AT AND MAINTAIN level AT time CROSS position AT AND MAINTAIN level AT speed .

The recognition time T is defined as being the time after which the instruction is assumed to have to be recognized from the current time at which it has been transmitted. In other words the recognition time is the time assumed to have to elapse between the current time and the time at which the instruction is assumed to have to be recognized. The recognition time is computed based on a modification time which is the time that elapses between the current time of its transmission and the time at which the said clearance is assumed to modify the active flight plan. The modification time Tm for an action to be carried out instantaneously is zero. It is said that this is a tactical instruction because it modifies the flight plan in the short term.

The control instructions can also be conditional actions by which the ATC requests the aircraft to carry out an action ACTION when a condition condition is fulfilled. The condition may be a condition of time or of passage at a given horizontal position or altitude. The conditional actions can instantaneously modify the active flight plan if the condition is verified at the current time. If the condition is not verified at the current time the conditional actions can modify the flight plan later when the condition is verified. The conditional actions are for example of the type AT position or time or level ACTION at the horizontal position position or at the time time or at the altitude level carry out the action ACTION . It may also involve actions of the type ACTION BY time or level or position carry out the action ACTION before the time time or the altitude level or the horizontal position position . 

A non exhaustive list will now be given of the conditional action control clearances and their meaning for 

heading clearances messages of the type AT position FLY HEADING degrees at the horizontal position position follow the heading at a value of degrees degrees 

speed clearances messages of the type AFTER PASSING position MAINTAIN speed after the position position maintain speed at a value equal to speed 

clearances to maintain or change level messages of the type AT time or position CLIMB TO or DESCEND TO level at the time time or at the horizontal position position climb or descend to the altitude level CLIMB or DESCEND TO REACH level BY time or position climb or descend to reach altitude level at the time time or at the horizontal position position AFTER PASSING position CLIMB TO or DESCEND TO level after position position climb or descend to altitude level REACH level BY position or time Reach altitude level at the horizontal position position or at the time time 

route clearances messages of the type AT position or time OFFSET specifiedDistance direction OF ROUTE at the time time fly on a route parallel to the initial route in the direction direction at a distance SpecifiedDistance AT time or position or level PROCEED DIRECT TO position at the time Time or at the position position or at the altitude level go directly to the point position AT position CLEARED routeClearance or procedureName at the horizontal position position replace the value of the route with routeClearance or procedureName HOLD AT position MAINTAIN level at the horizontal position position make a holding circuit go around at the altitude level .

When the conditional action modifies the flight plan in the short term it is said that the clearance is tactical when it modifies the flight plan in the long term that it is strategic.

There follows now a more precise description of the step of determining the recognition time T when the clearance is a conditional action. The modification time Tm is in this case the time that elapses between the current time and the conditional time which is the time at which the condition condition is assumed to be verified that is to say the time at which the said condition is assumed to modify the active flight plan. When the condition is a predetermined time time the conditional time is equal to the predetermined time time . When the condition is a condition of passage at a predetermined horizontal position position respectively at a predetermined altitude level the conditional time is the time at which the aircraft is assumed to reach the horizontal position position respectively the predetermined altitude level by following the active flight plan. The conditional time of passage at a predetermined horizontal position is for example determined by the router by means of the trajectory computation function TRAJ . The conditional time of passage at a predetermined altitude is for example computed by using the prediction function PRED. It is the estimated time at which the aircraft will pass at the predetermined altitude if it follows the lateral trajectory of the active flight plan.

The recognition time T of the control clearance is equal either to the modification time Tm or to an adjusted value of the modification time based on human factors including the crew because it is a task that is inserted amongst other tasks on board and or of communication time between the ground and the cockpit and or the response time required by the controllers i.e. the time between the sending of clearance and the response of the crew .

A destination flight plan PVD is attributed to each clearance CC according to the recognition time T. When the recognition time is in the first time slot P the clearance is a tactical instruction. The destination flight plan PVD is then the temporary flight plan PVtemp. When the recognition time is in a second time slot P longer than the first time slot P the control clearance CC is strategic. The destination flight plan PVD is then a secondary flight plan PVsec. Second time slot longer than the first time slot means that the times included in the second range of values are longer than the times included in the first range of times these two ranges are also distinct. The first time slot P advantageously extends between 0 minutes and 5 minutes the value of 5 minutes not being included in the first time slot. The first time slot preferably extends between 30 seconds and 1 minute. The second time slot P advantageously extends between 5 minutes the value included in the second range and 15 minutes and preferably between 10 minutes and 15 minutes. The values may differ depending on the future uses of the clearances in particular depending on the degree of urgency that the players in the aviation world controllers crews may define.

The method according to the invention also comprises a step of computing a reception flight plan PVrec based on the said control clearance. This step is advantageously preceded by a transmission step not shown of the clearance to the flight plan module FPLN from the analyser router so that a computation means not shown included in the flight plan module FPLN computes the reception flight plan.

In a first embodiment according to the invention the reception flight plan PVrec is the destination flight plan PVD. Advantageously in this embodiment when the memory space dedicated to the destination flight plan is occupied by a current destination flight plan the reception flight plan is computed based on the current destination plan and on the control clearance CC. When the memory space is vacant the destination flight plan being the temporary flight plan PVtemp the reception flight plan is computed based on the active flight plan and on the said clearance. When the memory space is vacant the destination flight plan being the secondary flight plan PVsec the reception flight plan is computed based on the said clearance and optionally based on the active flight plan.

The reception flight plan PVrec thus computed is stored in the storage space REC dedicated to the said reception flight plan. When the space dedicated to the said reception flight plan was occupied by a current reception flight plan before the insertion of the said clearance into the said flight plan the reception flight plan computed on the basis of the said clearance replaces the current reception flight plan. This amounts to updating the current reception flight plan based on the control clearance.

Advantageously when the communication module CMU receives a clearance its value is displayed on a screen of a man machine interface MMI . Advantageously the man machine interface comprises a flight control unit FCU. In this case the value of the clearance is advantageously displayed on a screen of the flight control unit FCU. This is of particular value for conditional action heading clearances for example of the type AT position FLY HEADING degrees when the horizontal position position is on the lateral trajectory of the flight plan. shows a portion of a flight control unit FCU comprising a first window and a second window on which are displayed respectively the value of the current heading direction the angle formed by the aeroplane axis with magnetic north equal to 140 in the example shown that the aircraft is in the process of following and the value of the next heading equal to 235 in the example shown that the aircraft is assumed to have to follow when the condition is verified that is to say that the aircraft is in the process of preparing.

The flight plan management module FPLN generates by introducing the clearances into the secondary flight plan or the temporary flight plan a segment or leg of the FM type this leg defined in the international aviation standard AEEC Arinc 424 Navigation System Data Base starting from the current position to reach the heading given by the clearance to infinity i.e. the leg has no termination course from position with manual termination based on the said clearance. The flight control unit FCU also comprises a means for selecting the next heading that the aircraft will follow. Therefore when the aircraft reaches the position position that is to say when the condition is verified the pilot selects the next heading using the selection means . Thus the guidance module generates guidance settings adapted so that the aircraft follows this next heading. The value of the current heading is advantageously replaced by the value of the next heading in the first window .

Advantageously a screen of the man machine interface MMI is capable of displaying a flight plan and optionally the control clearance s based on which it has been computed. Advantageously the method according to the invention comprises a step of notifying the pilot of the loading that is to say of computation of the flight plan based on the said clearance and of storage of the computed flight plan of the clearance in the reception flight plan. This step consists for example in displaying the destination flight plan and the said clearance.

Advantageously the flight plan module FPLN has a function of copying the secondary flight plan s into the memory space dedicated to the temporary flight plan TEMP or vice versa . Advantageously the man machine interface MMI comprises means not shown allowing the crew to initiate copying of a destination flight plan into a memory space dedicated to the storage of a substitution flight plan of its choice. When data are copied from a first storage space to a second storage space when the second storage space is not empty the data saved in the second storage space are replaced by the data saved in the first storage space. Copying is also followed by the erasure of the data saved in the first storage space.

This function is of value when for example the pilot notices that a clearance loaded into the temporary flight plan requires according to him to be better analysed before being activated. The pilot then initiates copying of the temporary flight plan to a memory space dedicated to the storage of a substitution flight plan of his choice which is distinct from the reception flight plan. Advantageously the substitution flight plan of a temporary flight plan is a secondary flight plan dedicated to the copying of the temporary flight plan. The flight plan module FPLN advantageously comprises a memory space dedicated to a secondary flight plan dedicated to the copying of the temporary flight plan. As a variant the substitution flight plan is a buffer flight plan.

In a second embodiment of the method according to the invention the reception flight plan is the destination flight plan when the memory space dedicated to the destination flight plan is vacant and is distinct from the destination flight plan when the storage space of the said destination flight plan is occupied. In this embodiment when the destination flight plan is the temporary flight plan respectively a secondary flight plan the reception flight plan is a secondary flight plan respectively the temporary flight plan. As a variant the reception flight plan is a buffer flight plan. The buffer flight plan is advantageously computed based on the said clearance and optionally on the active flight plan. The said method optionally comprises a step of notifying the pilot of the flight plan in which the clearance is loaded. The method according to the second embodiment advantageously comprises a step of copying the reception flight plan into the storage space dedicated to the destination flight plan when the latter is emptied that is to say when it is erased or activated.

As a variant when the memory space dedicated to the destination flight plan is occupied the clearance is not inserted into the destination flight plan it is said that the clearance is refused and the reason for the refusal is returned to the communication computer CMU. The pilot is notified of the reason for refusal. Advantageously the man machine interface has a means for forcing the loading of a refused clearance allowing the pilot to order the computation of the destination flight plan based on the said clearance and the storage of the latter in the dedicated space.

In a third embodiment of the method according to the invention the reception flight plan is the destination flight plan unless the control clearance is one of the following messages in which case the reception flight plan is the active flight plan PROCEED BACK ON ROUTE RESUME OWN NAVIGATION CLIMB TO level DESCEND TO level CRUISE CLIMB TO level CRUISE CLIMB ABOVE level EXPEDITE CLIMB TO level EXPEDITE DESCENT TO level IMMEDIATELY CLIMB TO level IMMEDIATELY DESCEND TO level . These clearances affect parameters usually managed directly in an active flight plan by a pilot. For example when the message is of the type CLIMB TO altitude where the parameter altitude is higher than the cruising level chosen by the pilot the cruise flight CRZ FL is usually directly modified in the active flight plan. It is therefore more natural to orient them towards the active flight plan.

The device according to the invention advantageously comprises means allowing the pilot to cancel the insertion of a clearance in a flight plan.

