---

title: Dual pivot pallet type cargo load restraint
abstract: A dual pivot load restraint for cargo aircraft for restraining pallet type loads from vertical movement having an upper pivot member pivotally mounted on a lower pivot member and the lower pivot member is pivotally mounted on a base member and the upper pivot member having an engagement portion having an engagement position for projecting into pockets on a pallet type cargo load and abutting against a lower wall thereof, and the lower pivot member having an engagement position for the upper pivot member in the engagement position thereof, and the walls of the pallet type cargo load engaging the engagement portion of the upper pivot member to move the upper pivot member to a retracted position for movement of the pallet type cargo load in the aft direction of the aircraft, and the walls of the pallet type cargo load engaging the engagement portion of the upper pivot member to move the upper pivot member with the lower pivot member to a retracted position of the lower pivot member, and having resilient members for resisting movement of the upper pivot member and the lower pivot member from the engagement positions thereof and urging the movement of the upper pivot member and the lower pivot member to the engagement positions thereof after movement therefrom.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08496205&OS=08496205&RS=08496205
owner: Ancra International, LLC
number: 08496205
owner_city: Asuza
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100503
---
This invention relates to cargo load restraints and more particularly to a restraint arrangement in a cargo aircraft for restraint of pallet type cargo loads of the type having side pockets to restrain the pallet type cargo loads from vertical movement and allow free movement of the pallet type cargo loads in the forward and aft directions on the aircraft without interfering with such movement of the pallet type cargo loads.

Various transportation vehicles such as large cargo carrying aircraft are often required to carry a variety of loads. It is current practice to have such loads placed on pallets. The pallets are often loaded onto the aircraft from an aft loading door or a side loading door. In general pairs of spaced apart rails are provided on the aircraft and the spacing between the pairs of rails corresponds to the width of the pallet type loads. Whether loaded from a rear door or from a side door the pallets must be able to move on the rails in the longitudinal direction that is in the fore and aft directions during the loading and unloading of the pallets from the aircraft.

The rails as may be installed on a loading deck of an aircraft generally run the longitudinal length of the cargo area of the aircraft and for each width of the pallets the corresponding rails are in general equally spaced from the centerline of the aircraft.

The standardized pallet sizes are specified in the NAS 3610 Cargo Unit Load Devices Specification and the teaching and technology thereof are incorporated herein by reference.

Thus the width of the pallets may be for example eight feet ten feet twelve feet and the like. The aircraft may have pairs of rails corresponding to a specified width so that the aircraft may have the capability of carrying on the same flight a large number of pallet type cargo loads of the specified width pallets. Cargo restraints are often mounted on or adjacent to the rails to restrain the pallets from vertical movement during transportation from one location to another.

Consequently in loading and unloading the pallets the pallets must be able to pass freely by the restraints by for the pallets in the desired load position in the aircraft the restraints must engage the pallet type loads to restrain the loads from the vertical movement. For efficiency it is desired that the restraints be fixed on the rails in a desired longitudinal spaced array corresponding to the longitudinal spacing of pockets on the pallets and in transverse alignment so that the restraints engage both sides of the pallet.

If the restraints were to be removable considerable time is wasted in installing and removing the restraints in order to allow the pallets to pass thereby and then install the restraints when the pallet type cargo load is in the desired position. If the restraints are fixed in place the restraints must be capable of not interfering with movement of the pallets as the pallets are loaded and unloaded.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved pallet type cargo load restraint for restraining cargo type pallets from vertical movement in an aircraft.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an improved pallet type cargo load restraint for restraining cargo type pallets from vertical movement in an aircraft in which the restraints do not interfere with the forward and aft movement of the pallet type loads during the loading and unloading thereof.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an improved pallet type cargo load restraint for restraining cargo type pallets from vertical movement in an aircraft in which the restraints are automatically in a restraining engagement with the pallet type cargo loads for the condition of the pallet type cargo loads at a desired preselected location in the aircraft.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide an improved pallet type cargo load restraint for restraining cargo type pallets from vertical movement in an aircraft in which the restraints are automatically in a restraining engagement with the pallet type cargo loads for the condition of the pallet type cargo loads at a desired preselected location in the aircraft and in which the pallet type cargo loads move the restraint out of restraining engagement during forward and aft movement of the cargo type pallet restraints.

The above and other objects of the present invention are achieved in a preferred embodiment thereof by providing pairs of pallet type cargo restraints in left hand and right hand versions thereof in a preselected spaced apart longitudinal array extending in the forward and aft directions in a cargo aircraft and the left hand and right embodiments of the pallet type cargo restraint are in transverse alignment with a left hand pallet type cargo restraint in transversely spaced apart alignment with a right hand pallet type cargo restraint.

The cargo aircraft utilizing the pallet type cargo restraints of the present invention are provided with a loading deck. A pair of generally U shaped rails are mounted on the cargo deck in transversely spaced apart parallel alignment. The base of the U shaped rails is coupled to the cargo deck and the legs of the U shaped rails extend upwardly therefrom.

A first plurality of pallet type cargo restraints which may be considered the left hand embodiment of the present invention are coupled to a first of the pair of rails in a preselected spaced array. The preselected spacing of the pallet type cargo restraint corresponds to the spacing of the pockets that are provided on the longitudinal sides of a pallet type cargo load.

A second plurality of pallet type cargo restraints which may be considered the right hand embodiment of the present invention are coupled to the second of the pair of rails in the same preselected spaced array as the first pallet type cargo restraints and each of the first plurality of pallet type cargo restraints is transversely aligned with one of the second plurality of pallet type cargo restraints.

The structural features of each of the left hand and right hand embodiments of the pallet type cargo restraints of the present invention are identical except one is the mirror image of the other. The description of the present invention describes one of the embodiments except as noted below where each of the left hand and right hand embodiments are illustrated for clarity in describing the structural features.

Each of the pallet type cargo restraints of the present invention are provided with a base member that has a lower connecting portion for attachment for example to the rails installed on the loading deck of a cargo aircraft. The base member has an upper mounting portion and the upper mounting portion has an upper support surface. A lower pivot member is pivotally mounted on the upper mounting portion of the base member above the upper support surface. The lower pivot member has limited pivotal movement in a first direction relative to the base member from a cargo restraint position thereof to a retracted position thereof and the return to the cargo restraint position from the retracted position. The lower pivot member pivotally rotates on a lower pivot post about a first axis. The lower pivot post extends through the upper mounting surface of the base member and the lower pivot member. A first resilient member which may be a coil spring is operatively connected between the base ember and the lower pivot member to yielding resist movement of the lower pivot member from the cargo restraint position thereof to the retracted position thereof and to urge the return of the lower pivot to the cargo restraint position from the retracted position. The lower pivot member has a generally planar upper surface.

The mounting portion of the base member has an outer edge and the upper support surface has first walls defining an outer channel extending in an arcuate configuration. The mounting surface also has second walls spaced from the first walls spaced from the first walls defining an inner channel extending in an arcuate configuration. The arcuate configuration of the first and second channels is circular and concentric with the first axis. The lower pivot member has an outer edge portion positioned in and movable in the outer channel during movement of the lower pivot member between the cargo restraint position and the retracted position. The lower pivot member also has an inner edge positioned in the inner channel and movable therein during movement of the lower pivot member between the cargo restraint position and the retracted position.

A first lower stop member is mounted on the upper support surface and extends upwardly therefrom and is spaced from the first axis. The lower stop member engages the lower pivot member for the lower pivot member in the retracted position to limit the movement of the lower pivot member about the first axis in a first pivot direction to the retracted position.

The second walls defining the inner channel also has a second lower stop surface for engaging the lower pivot member to limit the pivotal movement of the lower pivot member from the retracted position in a second pivot direction to provide the lower pivot member in the cargo restraint position.

The lower pivot member also has an upstanding upper stop member extending above the planar surface of the lower pivot member. The upper stop member has a first and a second stop surfaces

An upper pivot member is pivotally mounted on the lower pivot member for both pivotal movement relative to the lower pivotal member and in a second pivot direction and movable with the lower pivot member for movement of the lower pivot member between the cargo restraint position and the retracted position thereof. The upper pivot has a cargo load engaging portion which extends outwardly from the base member and the lower pivot member for the condition of the upper pivot member in the cargo restraint position thereof and aligned with a pocket on the pallet type cargo load. In such alignment the lower surface of the upper pivot member abuts the lower wall of the pocket of the pallet to restraint the vertical movement of the pallet type load. As the pallet type load moves in the forward direction a first wall of the pocket engages the load engaging portion of the upper pivot member and moves the upper pivot member against the first stop surface of the upper stop member. The engagement of the upper pivot member with the first stop surface of the upper stop member moves the lower pivot member in the first pivot direction from the cargo restraint position to the retracted position thereof. Such movement is repeated as the pallet type load is moved forward and the lower pivot member with the upper pivot member thereon repeatedly moving between the cargo restraint position and the retracted position as each pocket on the pallet moves past. When the pallet type load is in the desired position on the aircraft and the pockets of the pallet are aligned with the pallet type cargo restraints the cargo load engagement portions of the upper pivot member engages the lower surface of the aligned pockets. The upper pivot member remains in the cargo restraint position thereof during such movement of the pallet.

When the pallet is removed from the aircraft and moves in the aft direction a second wall on the pockets of the pallet engages the cargo load engaging portion of the upper pivot member and moves the upper pivot member in a second pivot direction opposite the first pivot direction relative to the lower pivot member until the upper pivot member engages the second stop surface on the upper stop member to be portioned in the retracted position thereof. In the retracted position of the upper pivot member the upper pivot member overlies the lower pivot member and the base member. The lower pivot member remains in the cargo restraint position thereof during the movement of the pallet in the aft direction as the upper pivot member moves between the retracted position thereof and the cargo restraint position thereof.

The pivotal movement of the upper pivot member on the lower pivot member is about a second axis that is substantially parallel to the first axis. An upper pivot post extends through the upper pivot member and the lower pivot member and is aligned with the second axis to provide the pivotal motion of the upper pivot member in the first and the second pivot directions.

Referring now to the Figures of the drawing there is illustrated therein preferred embodiments of the present invention. In there is illustrated an embodiment generally designated of an array of a first plurality of pallet type cargo restraints and a second plurality of pallet type cargo restraints are mounted in a transport aircraft having a loading deck which is generally symmetrical about a centerline . A pair of rails are provided on the loading deck and are spaced transversely apart in a separation defined by the size of the particular pallet type cargo load and adjacent to which pallet type cargo loads as defined in the above mentioned NAS 3610 Cargo Unit Load Devices Specification may move in the longitudinal directions indicated by the arrow in the forward direction and in the aft direction. The transverse directions that is perpendicular to the centerline transport vehicle are indicated by the arrows and .

The first plurality of pallet type load restraints are in a preselected longitudinally spaced apart array corresponding to the spacing of the pockets on the pallet type load.

The second plurality of pallet type cargo restraint are mounted on the rail in the same preselected longitudinally spaced array as the first plurality of pallet type cargo restraints and are in transversely aligned relationship therewith so that each of the pallet type cargo restraints are aligned with one of the pallet type cargo restraints . In the preferred embodiments of the present invention the pallet type cargo restraints and operate in the same fashion during the loading and unloading of pallet type cargo loads from the aircraft . Consequently each of the second plurality of pallet type cargo restraints is a mirror image of the pallet type cargo restraints . That is in the conventional notation in aircraft design the pallet type cargo restraints may be considered left hand and the pallet type cargo restraints may be considered right hand. The structural elements of each of the first plurality of pallet type cargo restraints is identical to the corresponding structural elements of the plurality of pallet type cargo restraints .

The rails and are generally U shaped and have a base portion attached to the cargo deck and upstanding member and . The first and second plurality of pallet type cargo restraints and are bolted or otherwise attached to the rails and .

As described below in greater detail the pallet type cargo restraints have two moving operative parts a lower pivot member and an upper pivot member . The relative position of the lower pivot member and the upper pivot member for the three operative conditions illustrated in and are shown in Table 1.

Referring now to and pallet type cargo restraints and are provided with a base member shown in in greater detail having a lower connecting portion and an upper mounting portion spaced from the lower edge of the lower portion . The mounting portion has a generally planar upper support surface and a outer edge . Outer walls are provided at the outer edge to define an outer channel . The outer channel is arcuate in preferred embodiments of the present invention. Inner walls are provided on the upper support surface in spaced relationship to the outer walls and the inner walls define an arcuate inner channel . The arcuate outer channel and arcuate inner channel have the same arcuate configuration. The inner walls also have a generally planar stop surface .

A lower pivot member is pivotally mounted on the upper mounting portion of the base member for limited pivotal motion about a first axis relative to the upper mounting surface between a cargo restraint position described below in connection with and as shown on and a retracted position as shown on and described below in connection with . The first axis is substantially perpendicular to the upper support surface . A lower pivot post extends through the lower pivot member and the upper mounting portion of the base member to provide the pivotal motion of the lower pivot member about the axis . The lower pivot member has a generally planar upper surface and the upper surface is provided with an upstanding upper stop member in spaced relationship to the first axis . The upper stop member has a generally planar first stop surface and a generally planar second stop surface . A leaf spring stop member is mounted on the upper surface of the lower pivot member .

A first lower stop member is mounted on the upper surface of the mounting portion and a first edge of the lower pivot member engages the first lower stop member to limit the pivotal motion of the lower pivot member from the cargo restraint position to the retracted position to provide the lower pivot member in the retracted position thereof. A second edge of the lower pivot member engages the planar stop surface on the inner walls to limit the pivotal motion of the lower pivot member from the retracted position to the cargo restraint position to provide the lower pivot member in the cargo restraint position.

A first resilient member is mounted on the first pivot post for operative inter engagement between the lower pivot member and the base for yieldingly resisting movement of the lower pivot member from the cargo restraint position to the retracted position and urging the lower pivot member to move from the retracted position to the cargo restraint position.

An upper pivot member is pivotally mounted on the lower pivot member for both pivotal movement of the upper pivot member relative to the lower pivot member as well as movement with the lower pivot member as the lower pivot member moves between the retracted position thereof and the cargo restraint position thereof. The upper pivot member pivotally moves about a second axis that is spaced from the first axis and is substantially parallel thereto. An upper pivot post extends through the upper pivot member and the lower pivot member and is free of engagement with the base member . The upper pivot post is aligned with the second axis for providing the pivotal motion of the upper pivot member about the second axis .

The upper pivot member has a cargo load engaging portion extending to regions external the base member and the lower pivot member for the condition of the upper pivot member in the load restraint position thereof and the lower pivot member in the cargo restraint position thereof. As shown in the load engaging portion of the upper pivot member is aligned to engage the lower surface of the pocket of the pallet when in the load restraining position thereof to prevent vertical movement of the pallet .

A leaf spring is operatively connected between the upper pivot member and the lower pivot member to yieldingly resist movement of the upper pivot member relative to the lower pivot member for movement from the load restraint position to the retracted position and urging the upper pivot member to return to the load restraint position from the retracted position. The leaf spring operatively engages the leaf spring stop to provide the spring force on the upper pivot member . A lateral wall of the upper pivot member engages the planar stop surface of the upper stop member for the upper pivot member in the retracted position s shown on . The lateral wall of the upper pivot member engages the planar stop surface for movement of the upper pivot member with the lower pivot member as the lower pivot member is moved from the load restraint position to the retracted position as shown on .

The lower pivot post may be a headed screw retained in the operative position thereof by conventional nut and washer . Similarly the upper pivot post may be a screw retained in place by a nut and bushing .

Although specific embodiments of the present invention have been described above with reference to the various Figures of the drawing it should be understood that such embodiments are by way of example only and merely illustrative of but a small number of the many possible specific embodiments which can represent applications of the principles of the present invention. Various changes and modifications obvious to one skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains are deemed to be within the spirit scope and contemplation of the present invention as further defined in the appended claims.

