---

title: Social commerce relationship management system
abstract: A method and system is disclosed for conducting electronic commerce within a social media environment. A user performs social media interactions within a social media environment and elects to consider purchasing a vendor's product that is referenced in an activity stream. The user then proceeds to a social commerce site while they are still within the social media environment. The user then accesses the social commerce site and performs social commerce operations, such as selecting and purchasing the product referenced in the activity stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619834&OS=09619834&RS=09619834
owner: Dell Products L.P.
number: 09619834
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101122
---
Embodiments of the invention relate generally to information handling systems. More specifically embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for conducting electronic commerce within a social media environment.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

Such information handling systems have been instrumental in the widespread adoption of electronic commerce ecommerce which enables organizations to communicate advertise market and sell their products and services over computer networks such as the Internet. These same information handling systems have been just as instrumental in the rapid adoption of social media into the mainstream of everyday life. Social media commonly refers to the use of web based technologies for the creation and exchange of user generated content for social interaction. As such it currently accounts for approximately 22 of all time spent on the Internet.

More recently social commerce has emerged. A subset of ecommerce social commerce uses social interactions and user contributions to assist in the online buying and selling of products and services. More succinctly social commerce can be thought of as the use of social media in the context of ecommerce. Examples of social commerce include customer ratings and reviews user recommendations and referrals private and public forums and communities and social advertising.

Another form of social commerce is user generated advertorial content which provides on line shoppers with advice from trusted individuals and assists them in finding recommended goods and services. Once restricted to ecommerce sites such content is now beginning to be available within social media environments. However purchasing recommended goods and services typically requires leaving the social media environment and accessing the vendor s ecommerce site. Once accessed the user is often overwhelmed with too many choices which can lead to confusion indecision and abandoned shopping carts. In view of the foregoing there is a need to seamlessly extend social commerce to provide complete ecommerce functionality from within a social media environment.

A method and system is disclosed for conducting electronic commerce within a social media environment. In various embodiments a social commerce relationship management system SCRMS is implemented to perform social commerce operations within a social media environment. In these and other embodiments a social media community member performs social media interactions such as reading or posting comments participating in activity streams uploading photographs etc.

During the course of performing social media interactions the social media community member may elect to consider purchasing a vendor s product that is referenced in an activity stream. If so then the social media community member proceeds to the vendor s or a vendor affiliate s social commerce site while they are still performing social media interactions within the social media environment. Once the social commerce site is accessed social commerce operations are performed such as selecting and purchasing the vendor s product referenced in the activity stream.

In one embodiment the social commerce site is operated as a subset of an electronic commerce site operated by the vendor. In another embodiment the social commerce site is operated independently from an electronic commerce site operated by the vendor. In yet another embodiment the social commerce site is configured and operated by the vendor. In still another embodiment the social commerce site is configured by an affiliate of the vendor but operated by the vendor on behalf of the affiliate.

A method and system is disclosed for conducting electronic commerce within a social media environment. For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

In various embodiments the ecommerce system provides the ability for operators of the plurality of social commerce sites to sell their products and other products through a vendor affiliate structure. In these and other embodiments the ecommerce system likewise provides the ability to keep track of vendor affiliate product shipping and fulfillment by integrating the plurality of social commerce sites with the vendor s fulfillment site such as web site A through n . Likewise the ecommerce system provides the ability to track shipping and fulfillment for individual social commerce site operators own products. The ecommerce system likewise provides the ability to have customers to not only purchase an individual product from an individual social commerce site but to also purchase multiple products from different vendors in one shopping cart purchase at an individual social commerce site . Likewise the ecommerce system provides the ability to provide the option of a purchase occurring within the ecommerce system or at another site such as web site A through n . In these and other embodiments the ecommerce system likewise provides the ability to manage a plurality of social commerce sites for an individual operator and also provide the ability to support multiple tenants each of which may have different social commerce sites affiliate programs and marketplaces.

In various embodiments the reputation management system provides the ability for a plurality of social media communities to share reputation points and reputation badges each of which are governed separately or in the same governance structure. Likewise the reputation management system provides buyers the ability to rate their experience with individual products and operators of individual social commerce sites . The reputation management system likewise provides the ability to offer a loyalty reward program for operators of individual social commerce sites across a similar or different social media site to incent customers to make more purchases of products and get rewarded or recognition for the amount they spend. In these and other embodiments social media community participation is incentivized base on activity attendance key words used or needed content. Likewise a user s activity in individual social media sites that are outside of the plurality of social commerce sites may be rewarded while simultaneously preventing fraudulent activity by users attempting to receive rewards improve their reputation scores or increase incentives.

In various embodiments the content management system provides the ability for vendor content to be integrated with individual social commerce site content such that any changes made to the content is synchronized. Likewise the content management system provides the ability for product prices to be synchronized in real time between an individual social commerce site and a vendor. In various embodiments the promotions management system provides the ability for a vendor to publish promotional coupons and to likewise allow operators of individual social commerce sites to provide their own version of the coupon such that it can be based on time periods purchase quantities or amounts calendar day country or group purchases. Likewise a coupon program may specify a predetermined coupon and only allow or limit the usage of the coupon by a predetermined user registered in the promotions management system .

As shown in the ecommerce system is coupled to an enterprise management system familiar to those of skill in the art which in turn is coupled to a plurality of social commerce sites which are described in greater detail herein. In turn the social commerce sites are accessed by a plurality of information handling systems as likewise described in greater detail herein. The plurality of social commerce sites are likewise coupled to a social integration system which is implemented in various embodiments to provide access to a plurality of social media sites . The ecommerce system is likewise coupled to a software as a service SaaS system which in turn is respectively coupled to web sites A through n by application program interfaces APIs A through n .

In various embodiments the SCRMS is implemented to enable members of a social media community to conduct social commerce operations. As used herein social commerce refers to any activity relating to the use of social media to conducting electronic commerce operations. In these embodiments the SCRMS may interact with various other systems including a tagging and taxonomy system an activity tracking system and an administrative web site . The SCRMS may likewise interact with a developer service comprising a Representational State Transfer REST application program interface API a recommendation system a central profile system a social monitoring service and a widget framework system . When performing social commerce operations described in greater detail herein the SCRMS may likewise retrieve and store social data in a social data repository .

In theses and other embodiments the tagging and taxonomy system provides the ability for social commerce site administrators to implement predetermined product categories and taxonomies. In various embodiments the tagging and taxonomy system likewise provides these same administrators the ability to use custom defined product categories and taxonomies. Likewise the tagging and taxonomy system provides administrators the means to integrate different product catalogs and assign them specific categories and taxonomies. In these and other embodiments the administrators are likewise provided the ability to govern their own product catalogs tags taxonomies and offer the predetermined navigation to their affiliates. In one embodiment administrators are provided the means to present predetermined affiliates various products based on the implementation of associated tags. In another embodiment affiliates are provided the means to provide various products to target customers based on the implementation of associated tags. In yet another embodiment the tagging and taxonomy system comprises a reporting engine operable to match custom categories with specific categories that have been created by affiliates.

In various embodiments the activity tracking system provides the means to track activities performed in the plurality of social commerce sites as well as the plurality of social commerce sites that are associated with the social commerce sites . As an example the activity tracking system may track individual user pages in a social media site such as Facebook activity stream activity word press comments and social media users registering for access to an individual social commerce site . In these and other embodiments the activity tracking system likewise tracks activity associated with web sites A through n . As an example a user of a social media site may in turn go to an individual social commerce site to make a purchase and from there be redirected to a vendor s site e.g. individual web site A through n to complete the purchase. To further the example In one embodiment the activity tracking system tracks purchase activity for products purchased at an individual web site A through n within a predetermined time period. In one embodiment the activity tracking system generates reports related to activity associated with the plurality of social commerce sites the plurality of social media sites individual users of the social media sites and the plurality of social commerce sites and the products that were considered or purchased by individual users.

In various embodiments the administrative web site provides an interface to manage a plurality of vendor associates that use the SCRMS . In these and other embodiments this interface provides individual vendor associates the govern capabilities to govern their respective social commerce sites vendor affiliate programs and social commerce marketplaces. In various embodiments the governance capabilities comprises roles and rights management which allows a vendor affiliate to decide who can manage create and administer individual social commerce sites social commerce marketplaces and various affiliate programs. Likewise the governance capabilities comprises stewardship over programs which defines a sub governance structure and hierarchy for the SCRMS across a plurality of organization structures such as individual business units and geographies. Reporting capabilities are likewise provided for each steward as well as the ability to create customize and manage individual social commerce sites associated with one or more of the plurality of social media sites . Likewise the governance capabilities comprise the ability to create run manage and monitor different social commerce marketing promotion and advertising campaigns across the plurality of social media sites to a predetermined user or group of users. A communication mechanism is likewise provided to allow one way or two way communication to facilitate announcements and frequently asked answers and questions FAQs . The governance capabilities likewise comprise the ability to manage multiple product catalogs as well as who has access to each product catalog and the products that are made available to different users of the SCRMS .

Likewise the governance capabilities include the ability to enable in house or outsourced moderation of user comments submitted to both individual social commerce sites and content produced by social commerce site operators such as vendor affiliates. The governance capabilities likewise include the ability to control branding of individual social commerce sites such that they may variously be customized of restricted to a predetermined template. In various embodiments branding applies to content that can be added and advertisement that can be used at individual social commerce sites . Likewise the governance capabilities include the ability to manage users of individual social commerce sites and their associated social media site s . Likewise the ability to create manage and report on different vendor affiliate and vendor affiliate programs is provided by the governance capabilities. The governance capabilities likewise include the ability to create manage and report on various commission reputation and reward programs across different users of the plurality of social media sites and the plurality of social commerce sites as well as individual vendor affiliates. Likewise the governance capabilities provide the ability to create manage and report on various support programs that may be customized for implementation within individual social commerce sites to optimize use of the SCRMS .

In various embodiments the developer service provides the ability for operators of the plurality of social commerce sites to use a developer kit to create and then upload templates for implementation within individual social commerce sites . Likewise the developer service provides the means to implement predetermined template functionalities by adding new widgets to different templates. The developer service likewise provides the ability to maintain operational integrity of existing templates by specifying where the widget should and can be added. In these and other embodiments the developer service provides the means to create custom templates and widgets that can in turn be marketed to operators of the plurality of social commerce sites . Likewise the developer service provides the means for integration of the SCRMS into other customer relationship management CRM inventory management marketing automation social network and content management systems.

In various embodiments the recommendation system provides recommendations to operators of individual social commerce sites regarding advertisements products and content that should be displayed to a user of an individual social commerce site based upon an individual user s location activity and other associated data. Likewise the recommendation system provides recommendations related to products that an operator of an individual social commerce site could sell based on the demographic of users that come to the individual social commerce site . The recommendation system likewise provides recommendations related to maximizing sales based on products that can be sold advertising campaigns that can be run and additional individual social commerce sites that could be implemented In various embodiments the central profile system provides a profile for each vendor affiliate or operator of individual social commerce sites that assists users of the individual social commerce sites be aware of the respective reputation of each of the individual social commerce sites and their operators. Likewise the central profile system assists vendor affiliates and operators of individual social commerce sites discover the products that they should sell while also providing the ability for buyers to market products to other trusted parties through their profile page. The central profile system likewise provides the means to incent sellers and social media community members to be successful in their social commerce activities with targeted marketing and sales campaigns while simultaneously maintaining and improving their respective reputations and profiles.

In various embodiments the social monitoring service provides the ability to monitor activity within the plurality of social commerce sites and the plurality of social media sites and associate rules respective to individual activities while likewise reporting on individual activities. Likewise the social monitoring service provides the ability to monitor potential fraud or dangers to the SCRMS based on prior experience and activity by a specific user or group of users of individual social commerce sites . The social monitoring service likewise provides the ability to monitor activity and look for trends that may lead to decisions related to which products need to be sold risk and fraud that may be occurring demand projections and sales opportunities associated with individual social commerce sites . In various embodiments the widget framework system provides the ability for various widgets to be created for individual social commerce sites such that they may be easily embedded into a template. In these and other embodiments widgets are governed and administrators can decide who has control over the various widgets which can likewise be implemented in various templates. Likewise the widget framework system provides the ability for developers to create customized widgets which in turn have the ability to import and export data to other systems. In various embodiments the social data repository comprises data captured the plurality of social commerce sites sites associated with the plurality of social commerce sites affiliate commerce sites where a purchase transaction can occur such as web sites A through n and other systems that choose to share data with the social data repository . In these and other embodiments data stored in the social data repository can be used to create graphs and charts that illustrating trends that assist operators of individual social commerce sites in maximizing their sales.

In various embodiments the web interface component provides users access to services and data available in the SCRMS and other interoperable systems as shown in . In these and other embodiments the web interface component likewise provides access to the business logic component and to the analysis services component. Likewise the developer services interface component provides an interface for external systems and applications to access various services and data available in the SCRMS including the business logic component . The business logic which is coupled to data access and to analysis services provides support for locating searching and accessing data and service objects that are available in the SCRMS. In various embodiments the business logic enables decoupling the location search and access functions from various components performing data access service interface and web interface functions. As a result a variety of search and access needs may be accommodated.

The data access component supports the translation mapping caching and access of data available in the SCRMS database . In various embodiments the data access component decouples the translation mapping caching and access functions from the various SCRMS components performing business logic and data storage functions. As a result a variety of internal and external data sources can be accommodated while likewise providing scalability as additional data sources are identified and added to the SCRMS. Likewise the integration services component provides the ability to ingest data from external systems services and data stores for storage in the social data repository . In addition the integration services component provides extraction transformation mapping and aggregation functions to move data between the social data repository the data mart and the SCRMS database .

In various embodiments the analysis services component provides business intelligence components used by the SCRMS. Using data stored in the data mart and the SCRMS database these business intelligence components provide the means for the creation and management of multidimensional data cubes clustering analysis association analysis and other data analyses. In these and other embodiments the data mart contains the de normalized data obtained from the social data repository and the SCRMS database in a persistent fashion. The data mart likewise provides search and retrieval access to this data supports the administration of the data and supports business intelligence functions from the analysis services component . Likewise the SCRMS database stores SCRMS related data in a persistent fashion provides search and retrieval access to this data and supports administration of the data.

As used herein information handling system may comprise a personal computer a laptop computer or a tablet computer operable to exchange data between the social media community member and the social media server over a connection to network . The information handling system may also comprise a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone or any other suitable device operable to display a social commerce user interface UI and likewise operable to establish a connection with network . In various embodiments the information handling system are likewise operable to establish an on line session over network with the SCRMS which is implemented on an SCRMS server .

Once the social media community member has established a connection to the social media environment or site social media interactions such as reading or posting comments participating in activity streams uploading photographs etc. are performed. In various embodiments these interactions are stored in a repository of social media member data . During the course of performing social media interactions the social media community member may elect to interact with an activity stream related to a product available for sale by a vendor . If so then the social media community member may also elect to consider purchasing the vendor s product referenced in the activity stream. If so then the social media community member proceeds to the vendor s or a vendor affiliates social commerce site while they are still performing social media interactions within the social media environment.

In various embodiments the social commerce site is provided by the SCRMS . In one embodiment the social commerce web site is a subset of an electronic commerce web site provided by the vendor s electronic commerce ecommerce system . In another embodiment the social commerce web site is a stand alone site that uses vendor and product information stored in a repository of ecommerce data that is provided by the vendor s ecommerce system. Skilled practitioners of the art will recognize that many such embodiments are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

The social commerce site is then accessed by the social media community member . Once the social commerce site is accessed social commerce operations are performed such as selecting and purchasing the vendor s product referenced in the activity stream. In one embodiment the social commerce site is configured and operated by a vendor s SCRMS administrator admin using a corresponding vendor s SCRMS admin UI implemented on the vendor s admin system to access data stored in the social data repository . In another embodiment the social commerce site is configured by a vendor s affiliate using a corresponding vendor affiliate s SCRMS UI implemented on the vendor affiliate s admin system to likewise access data stored in the social data repository .

However if it is determined in step that the user elects to participate in the activity stream then the user so participates in step followed by a determination being made in step whether to consider purchasing a vendor s product referenced in the activity stream. If not then a determination is made in step whether to continue interaction with the activity stream. If so then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise then a determination is made in step whether to continue social commerce operations. If so then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise social commerce operations are ended in step .

However if it is determined in step that the user is considering purchasing the vendor s product referenced in the activity stream then a determination is made in step whether to proceed to either the vendor s or a vendor affiliate s social store. If it is determined in step to proceed to the vendor s social store then the user proceeds to the vendor s social store in step . Otherwise the user proceeds to the vendor affiliate s store in step . Once the user has respectively proceeded to either the vendor s or the vendor affiliate s social store in steps and the user performs social commerce operations in step such as selecting and purchasing the vendor s product referenced in the activity stream. Once social commerce operations are completed in step a determination is made in step whether to continue social commerce operations. If so then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise social commerce operations are ended in step .

In this embodiment a social commerce site is rendered within a window of a user interface such as web browser . As shown in the social commerce site comprises a heading referencing an affiliate of a vendor an image of the affiliate a sub heading and a graphical image corresponding to the vendor associated with the affiliate. As likewise shown in the social commerce site likewise comprises a notation referencing a plurality of vendor s products recommended by the affiliate. The plurality of recommended products respectively comprises a graphical image a product description and an approval rating . As an example the graphical image has a corresponding product name of Total Immersion Gaming a rating of five stars a price of 579.99 and approval rating of 2 337 reviewers.

The present invention is well adapted to attain the advantages mentioned as well as others inherent therein. While the present invention has been depicted described and is defined by reference to particular embodiments of the invention such references do not imply a limitation on the invention and no such limitation is to be inferred. The invention is capable of considerable modification alteration and equivalents in form and function as will occur to those ordinarily skilled in the pertinent arts. The depicted and described embodiments are examples only and are not exhaustive of the scope of the invention.

For example the above discussed embodiments include software modules that perform certain tasks. The software modules discussed herein may include script batch or other executable files. The software modules may be stored on a machine readable or computer readable storage medium such as a disk drive. Storage devices used for storing software modules in accordance with an embodiment of the invention may be magnetic floppy disks hard disks or optical discs such as CD ROMs or CD Rs for example. A storage device used for storing firmware or hardware modules in accordance with an embodiment of the invention may also include a semiconductor based memory which may be permanently removably or remotely coupled to a microprocessor memory system. Thus the modules may be stored within a computer system memory to configure the computer system to perform the functions of the module. Other new and various types of computer readable storage media may be used to store the modules discussed herein. Additionally those skilled in the art will recognize that the separation of functionality into modules is for illustrative purposes. Alternative embodiments may merge the functionality of multiple modules into a single module or may impose an alternate decomposition of functionality of modules. For example a software module for calling sub modules may be decomposed so that each sub module performs its function and passes control directly to another sub module.

Consequently the invention is intended to be limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims giving full cognizance to equivalents in all respects.

