---

title: Gaming system, gaming device, and method for providing a cascading symbol game including shifting different determined symbols
abstract: During a play of a game, the disclosed gaming system determines that an ending condition has occurred. For example, the gaming system determines that an ending condition has occurred when no winning symbol combinations are displayed for the play of the game. Following determination that the ending condition has occurred, the gaming system determines whether to provide access to an additional win opportunity for the play of the game. If the additional win opportunity is to be provided, the gaming system removes one or more symbols from a plurality of symbol positions even though such symbols do not form a winning symbol combination. The gaming system fills any resulting empty symbol positions by shifting symbols and/or displaying generated symbols, and provides awards for any then-generated winning symbol combinations. The additional win opportunity may be accessed because of a player wager or because other additional win opportunity criteria are satisfied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08323091&OS=08323091&RS=08323091
owner: IGT
number: 08323091
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100809
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the photocopy reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure in exactly the form it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Gaming machines which provide awards to players in primary or base games are well known. These gaming machines generally require the player to place or make a wager to activate the primary or base game. In many of these gaming machines the award is based on the player obtaining a winning symbol or winning symbol combination and on the amount of the wager e.g. the higher the wager the higher the award . Generally symbols or symbol combinations which are less likely to occur result in higher awards. In such known gaming machines the amount of the wager made on a play of the base game by the player can vary.

Gaming machines which provide cascading symbol games are also known. In one such cascading symbol game a gaming machine generates and displays a plurality of symbols in a plurality of symbol positions. The gaming machine evaluates the displayed symbols and provides an award for each winning symbol combination formed if any. The gaming machine then removes the displayed symbols that form the winning symbol combination s creating one or more empty symbol positions. The gaming machine shifts zero one or more of the remaining displayed symbols downward into zero one or more of the empty symbol positions. If any empty symbol positions remain after this downward shifting the gaming machine generates and displays a symbol in each empty symbol position. The gaming machine reevaluates the displayed symbols and provides an award for any winning symbol combinations then displayed. The gaming machine repeats the steps of removing generated symbols shifting generated symbols generating and displaying new symbols and evaluating generated symbols so long as winning symbol combinations continue to be formed.

There is a need to increase the excitement and entertainment experienced by people playing gaming machines. There is also a need for new ways of providing better gaming experiences and environments at gaming machines by enabling further player interaction with gaming machines during play. There is a further need for increasing the number of winning symbol combinations generated and the number and values of the awards provided to a player for a single wager on a play of a game.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to gaming systems gaming devices and methods for providing following a determination of an ending condition during a play of a game an additional win opportunity if an additional win opportunity triggering condition is satisfied. The gaming system provides the additional win opportunity in addition to any awards determined in the play of the game that occurred prior to the occurrence of the ending condition. In various embodiments the additional win opportunity includes a cascading symbol feature wherein the player picks one or more symbols to be initially removed during the additional win opportunity. In another embodiment the gaming system determines any symbols to be initially removed during the additional win opportunity. For the additional win opportunity the gaming system removes the selected symbols from the arrangement of symbols such as a symbol matrix which display the ending condition shifts remaining symbols to fill resulting empty symbol positions and generates and displays new symbols to fill any still remaining empty symbol positions. Following such removal shifting and generation the gaming system provides an award to the player for any winning symbol combinations generated during the additional win opportunity. In one embodiment this additional cascading symbol feature which starts after the ending condition continues until no more winning symbol combinations occur. It should be appreciated that the play of the game prior to the occurrence of the ending condition may or may not include a cascading symbol feature as further discussed below.

The gaming system determines whether the player is eligible to participate in the additional win opportunity based at least in part on whether an additional win opportunity triggering condition is satisfied. In one embodiment the additional win opportunity triggering condition is satisfied if the player provides an optional fee or second wager portion for the play of the game and if in exchange for the additional wager the gaming system subsequently determines to provide the additional win opportunity to the player. In one embodiment the gaming system enables the player to wager on a play of the game and on the additional win opportunity prior to the start of the play of the game. In this embodiment a player wager includes a first portion provided in exchange for a play of a primary or base game and an optional second portion provided in exchange for a chance to participate in an additional win opportunity. In this embodiment if for the play of the game the player does not provide the optional second portion of the wager for a chance at the additional win opportunity the gaming system does not provide the additional win opportunity for that play of the game. However if the player provides the wager for the chance at the additional win opportunity the gaming system makes a determination as to whether to provide the additional win opportunity to the player following the play of the game.

As mentioned above in one embodiment the wagering game or first part of the wagering game is a cascading symbol game. The gaming system displays an arrangement of symbol positions for the play of the game wherein each symbol position is configured to display one of a plurality of symbols which can be evaluated during the play of the game. The gaming system then randomly determines and displays one of the plurality of different symbols in each of the plurality of symbol positions. After the gaming system generates and displays the plurality of symbols in the plurality of symbol positions the gaming system determines whether any winning symbol combinations are formed by the displayed symbols. If any winning symbol combinations are formed the gaming system provides an award to the player based on an aspect of the winning symbol combination s such as based on the number of symbols in the winning symbol combination s the types of symbols in the winning symbol combination s the position of the winning symbol combination s within the arrangement of symbols or some other suitable aspect of the winning symbol combination s .

The play of the game continues if any winning symbol combinations are generated. The gaming system removes each of the symbols of each winning symbol combination from the symbol arrangement resulting in one or more empty symbol positions. To fill the empty symbol position s the gaming system shifts zero or more symbols within the arrangement of symbol positions into appropriate empty symbol positions and or generates and displays one or more of the plurality of symbols in one or more of the empty symbol positions. After removing symbols from winning symbol combinations and shifting generating symbols to fill the resulting empty symbol positions the gaming system determines whether any winning symbol combinations are displayed. If so the gaming system provides an award to the player. The play of the game continues until a designated ending condition occurs. In one embodiment the designated ending condition occurs when no winning symbol combinations are displayed in the symbol matrix.

Following the occurrence of the designated ending condition the gaming system determines whether to provide the player with access to an additional win opportunity. In one embodiment the determination of whether to provide access to the additional win opportunity is based on an additional win opportunity criteria such as whether a player has placed a sufficient additional win opportunity wager as mentioned above and a determination has thereafter been made to enable the player to participate in the additional win opportunity. In an alternative embodiment the additional win opportunity criteria is satisfied upon the player providing an additional wager amount following the occurrence of the designated ending condition. In another alternative embodiment access to the additional win opportunity is provided based on a determination made by the gaming system such as based on a random determination or based on a determination made according to a player s status within a player tracking system.

If the determination is to provide the additional win opportunity the disclosed additional win opportunity commences by determining one or more displayed symbols to remove from the symbol arrangement. The additional win opportunity is provided independent of and in addition to the play of the game that occurred prior to the occurrence of the ending condition. In one such embodiment the additional win opportunity includes removing one or more symbols from the arrangement of symbol positions independent of the use of those symbols prior to the occurrence of the designated ending condition. For example the gaming device removes one or more symbols despite such removed symbol s not being included in any winning symbol combination at the time of the occurrence of the designated ending condition. In one embodiment upon determining that the additional win opportunity is to be provided to the player e.g. because the player provided a sufficient wager to enable access to the additional win opportunity the gaming system enables the player to determine one or more symbols for removal. In another embodiment the gaming system determines which of the displayed symbols to remove from the symbol arrangement which determination may be randomly made or may be based on a designated set of symbols removable during the additional win opportunity. In one embodiment during the disclosed additional win opportunity the gaming system removes one or more designated symbols which are determined prior to the play of the game. Alternatively the disclosed gaming system removes one or more of a particular type of symbol removes one or more symbols in one or more symbol positions of the symbol arrangement without regard for which symbols are in such symbol positions or removes some other set of symbols from the symbol arrangement.

After determining which symbols to remove the gaming system continues the additional win opportunity to potentially generate one or more winning symbol combinations. During the additional win opportunity the gaming system removes any determined symbols from the symbol arrangement and shifts displayed symbols or generates and displays additional symbols from the plurality of symbols to fill the empty symbol positions as described above with respect the play of the game prior to the occurrence of the designated ending condition. In one embodiment the gaming system determines whether any winning symbol combinations are displayed following the additional win opportunity shifting and generating and provides an additional award to the player as appropriate. In one embodiment if any winning symbol combinations are displayed the gaming system again removes symbols and fills empty symbol positions as described during the additional win opportunity that is the additional win opportunity proceeds in this embodiment until no further winning symbol combinations are displayed.

It is thus an advantage of the disclosed gaming system to provide a player with an additional win opportunity following an occurrence of a designated ending condition in a play of a game such as following a determination that no winning symbol combinations are displayed by removing one or more player selected symbols from the symbol arrangement. It is a further advantage of the disclosed gaming system to remove designated symbols or randomly determined symbols from the symbol arrangement during the additional win opportunity as disclosed herein upon an occurrence of a designated ending condition.

Additional features and advantages are described in and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the figures.

The present disclosure may be implemented in various configurations for gaming machines gaming devices or gaming systems including but not limited to 1 a dedicated gaming machine gaming device or gaming system wherein the computerized instructions for controlling any games which are provided by the gaming machine or gaming device are provided with the gaming machine or gaming device prior to delivery to a gaming establishment and 2 a changeable gaming machine gaming device or gaming system wherein the computerized instructions for controlling any games which are provided by the gaming machine or gaming device are downloadable to the gaming machine or gaming device through a data network after the gaming machine or gaming device is in a gaming establishment. In one embodiment the computerized instructions for controlling any games are executed by at least one central server central controller or remote host. In such a thin client embodiment the central server remotely controls any games or other suitable interfaces and the gaming device is utilized to display such games or suitable interfaces and receive one or more inputs or commands from a player. In another embodiment the computerized instructions for controlling any games are communicated from the central server central controller or remote host to a gaming device local processor and memory devices. In such a thick client embodiment the gaming device local processor executes the communicated computerized instructions to control any games or other suitable interfaces provided to a player.

In one embodiment one or more gaming devices in a gaming system may be thin client gaming devices and one or more gaming devices in the gaming system may be thick client gaming devices. In another embodiment certain functions of the gaming device are implemented in a thin client environment and certain other functions of the gaming device are implemented in a thick client environment. In one such embodiment computerized instructions for controlling any primary games are communicated from the central server to the gaming device in a thick client configuration and computerized instructions for controlling any secondary games or bonus functions are executed by a central server in a thin client configuration.

Referring now to the drawings two example alternative embodiments of a gaming device disclosed herein are illustrated in as gaming device and gaming device respectively. Gaming device and or gaming device are generally referred to herein as gaming device .

In the embodiments illustrated in gaming device has a support structure housing or cabinet which provides support for a plurality of displays inputs controls and other features of a conventional gaming machine. It is configured so that a player can operate it while standing or sitting. The gaming device can be positioned on a base or stand or can be configured as a pub style table top game not shown which a player can operate preferably while sitting. As illustrated by the different configurations shown in the gaming device may have varying cabinet and display configurations.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the gaming device preferably includes at least one processor such as a microprocessor a microcontroller based platform a suitable integrated circuit or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC s . The processor is in communication with or operable to access or to exchange signals with at least one data storage or memory device . In one embodiment the processor and the memory device reside within the cabinet of the gaming device. The memory device stores program code and instructions executable by the processor to control the gaming device. The memory device also stores other data such as image data event data player input data random or pseudo random number generators pay table data or information and applicable game rules that relate to the play of the gaming device. In one embodiment the memory device includes random access memory RAM which can include non volatile RAM NVRAM magnetic RAM MRAM ferroelectric RAM FeRAM and other forms as commonly understood in the gaming industry. In one embodiment the memory device includes read only memory ROM . In one embodiment the memory device includes flash memory and or EEPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory . Any other suitable magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory may operate in conjunction with the gaming device disclosed herein.

In one embodiment part or all of the program code and or operating data described above can be stored in a detachable or removable memory device including but not limited to a suitable cartridge disk CD ROM DVD or USB memory device. In other embodiments part or all of the program code and or operating data described above can be downloaded to the memory device through a suitable network.

In one embodiment an operator or a player can use such a removable memory device in a desktop computer a laptop computer a hand held device such as a personal digital assistant PDA a portable computing or mobile device or another computerized platform to implement the present disclosure. In one embodiment the gaming device or gaming machine disclosed herein is operable over a wireless network for example as part of a wireless gaming system. In one such embodiment the gaming machine may be a hand held device a mobile device or any other suitable wireless device that enables a player to play any suitable game at a variety of different locations. In various embodiments in which the gaming device or gaming machine is a hand held device a mobile device or any other suitable wireless device at least one memory device and at least one processor which control the game or other operations of the hand held device mobile device or other suitable wireless device may be located a at the hand held device mobile device or other suitable wireless device b at a central server or central controller or c any suitable combination of the central server or central controller and the hand held device mobile device or other suitable wireless device. It should be appreciated that a gaming device or gaming machine as disclosed herein may be a device that has obtained approval from a regulatory gaming commission or a device that has not obtained approval from a regulatory gaming commission. It should be appreciated that the processor and memory device may be collectively referred to herein as a computer or controller. 

In one embodiment as discussed in more detail below the gaming device randomly generates awards and or other game outcomes based on probability data. In one such embodiment this random determination is provided through utilization of a random number generator RNG such as a true random number generator a pseudo random number generator or other suitable randomization process. In one embodiment each award or other game outcome is associated with a probability and the gaming device generates the award or other game outcome to be provided to the player based on the associated probabilities. In this embodiment since the gaming device generates outcomes randomly or based upon one or more probability calculations there is no certainty that the gaming device will ever provide the player with any specific award or other game outcome.

In another embodiment as discussed in more detail below the gaming device employs a predetermined or finite set or pool of awards or other game outcomes. In this embodiment as each award or other game outcome is provided to the player the gaming device flags or removes the provided award or other game outcome from the predetermined set or pool. Once flagged or removed from the set or pool the specific provided award or other game outcome from that specific pool cannot be provided to the player again. This type of gaming device provides players with all of the available awards or other game outcomes over the course of the play cycle and guarantees the amount of actual wins and losses.

In another embodiment as discussed below upon a player initiating game play at the gaming device the gaming device enrolls in a bingo game. In this embodiment a bingo server calls the bingo balls that result in a specific bingo game outcome. The resultant game outcome is communicated to the individual gaming device to be provided to a player. In one embodiment this bingo outcome is displayed to the player as a bingo game and or in any form in accordance with the present disclosure.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the gaming device includes one or more display devices controlled by the processor. The display devices are preferably connected to or mounted on the cabinet of the gaming device. The embodiment shown in includes a central display device which displays a primary game. This display device may also display any suitable secondary game associated with the primary game as well as information relating to the primary or secondary game. The alternative embodiment shown in includes a central display device and an upper display device . The upper display device may display the primary game any suitable secondary game associated or not associated with the primary game and or information relating to the primary or secondary game. These display devices may also serve as digital glass operable to advertise games or other aspects of the gaming establishment. As seen in in one embodiment the gaming device includes a credit display which displays a player s current number of credits cash account balance or the equivalent. In one embodiment the gaming device includes a bet display which displays a player s amount wagered. In one embodiment as described in more detail below the gaming device includes a player tracking display which displays information regarding a player s play tracking status.

In another embodiment at least one display device may be a mobile display device such as a PDA or tablet PC that enables play of at least a portion of the primary or secondary game at a location remote from the gaming device.

The display devices may include without limitation a monitor a television display a plasma display a liquid crystal display LCD a display based on light emitting diodes LEDs a display based on a plurality of organic light emitting diodes OLEDs a display based on polymer light emitting diodes PLEDs a display based on a plurality of surface conduction electron emitters SEDs a display including a projected and or reflected image or any other suitable electronic device or display mechanism. In one embodiment as described in more detail below the display device includes a touch screen with an associated touch screen controller. The display devices may be of any suitable size and configuration such as a square a rectangle or an elongated rectangle.

The display devices of the gaming device are configured to display at least one and preferably a plurality of game or other suitable images symbols and indicia such as any visual representation or exhibition of the movement of objects such as mechanical virtual or video reels and wheels dynamic lighting video images images of people characters places things faces of cards and the like.

In one alternative embodiment the symbols images and indicia displayed on or of the display device may be in mechanical form. That is the display device may include any electromechanical device such as one or more mechanical objects such as one or more rotatable wheels reels or dice configured to display at least one or a plurality of game or other suitable images symbols or indicia.

As illustrated in in one embodiment the gaming device includes at least one payment device in communication with the processor. As seen in a payment device such as a payment acceptor includes a note ticket or bill acceptor wherein the player inserts paper money a ticket or voucher and a coin slot where the player inserts money coins or tokens. In other embodiments payment devices such as readers or validators for credit cards debit cards or credit slips may accept payment. In one embodiment a player may insert an identification card into a card reader of the gaming device. In one embodiment the identification card is a smart card having a programmed microchip a coded magnetic strip or coded rewritable magnetic strip wherein the programmed microchip or magnetic strips are coded with a player s identification credit totals or related data and or other relevant information. In another embodiment a player may carry a portable device such as a cell phone a radio frequency identification tag or any other suitable wireless device which communicates a player s identification credit totals or related data and other relevant information to the gaming device. In one embodiment money may be transferred to a gaming device through electronic funds transfer. When a player funds the gaming device the processor determines the amount of funds entered and displays the corresponding amount on the credit or other suitable display as described above.

As seen in B and A in one embodiment the gaming device includes at least one and preferably a plurality of input devices in communication with the processor. The input devices can include any suitable device which enables the player to produce an input signal which is received by the processor. In one embodiment after appropriate funding of the gaming device the input device is a game activation device such as a play button or a pull arm not shown which is used by the player to start any primary game or sequence of events in the gaming device. The play button can be any suitable play activator such as a bet one button a max bet button or a repeat the bet button. In one embodiment upon appropriate funding the gaming device begins the game play automatically. In another embodiment upon the player engaging one of the play buttons the gaming device automatically activates game play.

In one embodiment one input device is a bet one button. The player places a bet by pushing the bet one button. The player can increase the bet by one credit each time the player pushes the bet one button. When the player pushes the bet one button the number of credits shown in the credit display preferably decreases by one and the number of credits shown in the bet display preferably increases by one. In another embodiment one input device is a bet max button not shown which enables the player to bet the maximum wager permitted for a game of the gaming device.

In one embodiment one input device is a cash out button . The player may push the cash out button and cash out to receive a cash payment or other suitable form of payment corresponding to the number of remaining credits. In one embodiment when the player cashes out a payment device such as a ticket payment or note generator prints or otherwise generates a ticket or credit slip to provide to the player. The player receives the ticket or credit slip and may redeem the value associated with the ticket or credit slip via a cashier or other suitable redemption system . In another embodiment when the player cashes out the player receives the coins or tokens in a coin payout tray. It should be appreciated that any suitable payout mechanisms such as funding to the players electronically recordable identification card or smart card may be implemented in accordance with the gaming device disclosed herein.

In one embodiment as mentioned above and as seen in one input device is a touch screen coupled with a touch screen controller or some other touch sensitive display overlay to allow for player interaction with the images on the display. The touch screen and the touch screen controller are connected to a video controller . A player can make decisions and input signals into the gaming device by touching the touch screen at the appropriate locations. One such input device is a conventional touch screen button panel.

The gaming device may further include a plurality of communication ports for enabling communication of the processor with external peripherals such as external video sources expansion buses game or other displays a SCSI port or a keypad.

In one embodiment as seen in the gaming device includes a sound generating device controlled by one or more sounds cards which function in conjunction with the processor. In one embodiment the sound generating device includes at least one and preferably a plurality of speakers or other sound generating hardware and or software for generating sounds such as by playing music for the primary and or secondary game or by playing music for other modes of the gaming device such as an attract mode. In one embodiment the gaming device provides dynamic sounds coupled with attractive multimedia images displayed on one or more of the display devices to provide an audio visual representation or to otherwise display full motion video with sound to attract players to the gaming device. During idle periods the gaming device may display a sequence of audio and or visual attraction messages to attract potential players to the gaming device. The videos may also be customized to provide any appropriate information.

In one embodiment the gaming machine may include a sensor such as a camera in communication with the processor and possibly controlled by the processor that is selectively positioned to acquire an image of a player actively using the gaming device and or the surrounding area of the gaming device. In one embodiment the camera may be configured to selectively acquire still or moving e.g. video images and may be configured to acquire the images in an analog digital or other suitable format. The display devices may be configured to display the image acquired by the camera as well as to display the visible manifestation of the game in split screen or picture in picture fashion. For example the camera may acquire an image of the player and the processor may incorporate that image into the primary and or secondary game as a game image symbol or indicia.

Gaming device can incorporate any suitable wagering game as the primary or base game. The gaming machine or device may include some or all of the features of conventional gaming machines or devices. The primary or base game may comprise any suitable reel type game card game cascading or falling symbol game number game or other game of chance susceptible to representation in an electronic or electromechanical form which in one embodiment produces a random outcome based on probability data at the time of or after placement of a wager. That is different primary wagering games such as video poker games video blackjack games video keno video bingo or any other suitable primary or base game may be implemented.

In one embodiment as illustrated in a primary or base game may be a slot game with one or more paylines . The paylines may be horizontal vertical circular diagonal angled or any combination thereof. In this embodiment the gaming device includes at least one and preferably a plurality of reels such as three to five reels in either electromechanical form with mechanical rotating reels or video form with simulated reels and movement thereof. In one embodiment an electromechanical slot machine includes a plurality of adjacent rotatable reels which may be combined and operably coupled with an electronic display of any suitable type. In another embodiment if the reels are in video form one or more of the display devices as described above displays the plurality of simulated video reels . Each reel displays a plurality of indicia or symbols such as bells hearts fruits numbers letters bars or other images which preferably correspond to a theme associated with the gaming device. In another embodiment one or more of the reels are independent reels or unisymbol reels. In this embodiment each independent or unisymbol reel generates and displays one symbol to the player. In one embodiment the gaming device awards prizes after the reels of the primary game stop spinning if specified types and or configurations of indicia or symbols occur on an active payline or otherwise occur in a winning pattern occur on the requisite number of adjacent reels and or occur in a scatter pay arrangement.

In an alternative embodiment rather than determining any outcome to provide to the player by analyzing the symbols generated on any wagered upon paylines as described above the gaming device determines any outcome to provide to the player based on the number of associated symbols which are generated in active symbol positions on the requisite number of adjacent reels i.e. not on paylines passing through any displayed winning symbol combinations . In this embodiment if a winning symbol combination is generated on the reels the gaming device provides the player one award for that occurrence of the generated winning symbol combination. For example if one winning symbol combination is generated on the reels the gaming device will provide a single award to the player for that winning symbol combination i.e. not based on the number of paylines that would have passed through that winning symbol combination . It should be appreciated that because a gaming device that enables wagering on ways to win provides the player one award for a single occurrence of a winning symbol combination and a gaming device with paylines may provide the player more than one award for the same occurrence of a single winning symbol combination i.e. if a plurality of paylines each pass through the same winning symbol combination it is possible to provide a player at a ways to win gaming device with more ways to win for an equivalent bet or wager on a traditional slot gaming device with paylines.

In one embodiment the total number of ways to win is determined by multiplying the number of symbols generated in active symbol positions on a first reel by the number of symbols generated in active symbol positions on a second reel by the number of symbols generated in active symbol positions on a third reel and so on for each reel of the gaming device with at least one symbol generated in an active symbol position. For example a three reel gaming device with three symbols generated in active symbol positions on each reel includes 27 ways to win i.e. 3 symbols on the first reel 3 symbols on the second reel 3 symbols on the third reel . A four reel gaming device with three symbols generated in active symbol positions on each reel includes 81 ways to win i.e. 3 symbols on the first reel 3 symbols on the second reel 3 symbols on the third reel 3 symbols on the fourth reel . A five reel gaming device with three symbols generated in active symbol positions on each reel includes 243 ways to win i.e. 3 symbols on the first reel 3 symbols on the second reel 3 symbols on the third reel 3 symbols on the fourth reel 3 symbols on the fifth reel . It should be appreciated that modifying the number of generated symbols by either modifying the number of reels or modifying the number of symbols generated in active symbol positions by one or more of the reels modifies the number of ways to win.

In another embodiment the gaming device enables a player to wager on and thus activate symbol positions. In one such embodiment the symbol positions are on the reels. In this embodiment if based on the player s wager a reel is activated then each of the symbol positions of that reel will be activated and each of the active symbol positions will be part of one or more of the ways to win. In one embodiment if based on the player s wager a reel is not activated then a designated number of default symbol positions such as a single symbol position of the middle row of the reel will be activated and the default symbol position s will be part of one or more of the ways to win. This type of gaming machine enables a player to wager on one more than one or all of the reels and the processor of the gaming device uses the number of wagered on reels to determine the active symbol positions and the number of possible ways to win. In alternative embodiments 1 no symbols are displayed as generated at any of the inactive symbol positions or 2 any symbols generated at any inactive symbol positions may be displayed to the player but suitably shaded or otherwise designated as inactive.

In one embodiment wherein a player wagers on one or more reels a player s wager of one credit may activate each of the three symbol positions on a first reel wherein one default symbol position is activated on each of the remaining four reels. In this example as described above the gaming device provides the player three ways to win i.e. 3 symbols on the first reel 1 symbol on the second reel 1 symbol on the third reel 1 symbol on the fourth reel 1 symbol on the fifth reel . In another example a player s wager of nine credits may activate each of the three symbol positions on a first reel each of the three symbol positions on a second reel and each of the three symbol positions on a third reel wherein one default symbol position is activated on each of the remaining two reels. In this example as described above the gaming device provides the player twenty seven ways to win i.e. 3 symbols on the first reel 3 symbols on the second reel 3 symbols on the third reel 1 symbol on the fourth reel 1 symbol on the fifth reel .

In one embodiment to determine any award s to provide to the player based on the generated symbols the gaming device individually determines if a symbol generated in an active symbol position on a first reel forms part of a winning symbol combination with or is otherwise suitably related to a symbol generated in an active symbol position on a second reel. In this embodiment the gaming device classifies each pair of symbols which form part of a winning symbol combination i.e. each pair of related symbols as a string of related symbols. For example if active symbol positions include a first cherry symbol generated in the top row of a first reel and a second cherry symbol generated in the bottom row of a second reel the gaming device classifies the two cherry symbols as a string of related symbols because the two cherry symbols form part of a winning symbol combination.

After determining if any strings of related symbols are formed between the symbols on the first reel and the symbols on the second reel the gaming device determines if any of the symbols from the next adjacent reel should be added to any of the formed strings of related symbols. In this embodiment for a first of the classified strings of related symbols the gaming device determines if any of the symbols generated by the next adjacent reel form part of a winning symbol combination or are otherwise related to the symbols of the first string of related symbols. If the gaming device determines that a symbol generated on the next adjacent reel is related to the symbols of the first string of related symbols that symbol is subsequently added to the first string of related symbols. For example if the first string of related symbols is the string of related cherry symbols and a related cherry symbol is generated in the middle row of the third reel the gaming device adds the related cherry symbol generated on the third reel to the previously classified string of cherry symbols.

On the other hand if the gaming device determines that no symbols generated on the next adjacent reel are related to the symbols of the first string of related symbols the gaming device marks or flags such string of related symbols as complete. For example if the first string of related symbols is the string of related cherry symbols and none of the symbols of the third reel are related to the cherry symbols of the previously classified string of cherry symbols the gaming device marks or flags the string of two cherry symbols as complete.

After either adding a related symbol to the first string of related symbols or marking the first string of related symbols as complete the gaming device proceeds as described above for each of the remaining classified strings of related symbols which were previously classified or formed from related symbols on the first and second reels.

After analyzing each of the remaining strings of related symbols the gaming device determines for each remaining pending or incomplete string of related symbols if any of the symbols from the next adjacent reel if any should be added to any of the previously classified strings of related symbols. This process continues until either each string of related symbols is complete or there are no more adjacent reels of symbols to analyze. In this embodiment where there are no more adjacent reels of symbols to analyze the gaming device marks each of the remaining pending strings of related symbols as complete.

When each of the strings of related symbols is marked complete the gaming device compares each of the strings of related symbols to an appropriate paytable and provides the player any award associated with each of the completed strings of symbols. It should be appreciated that the player is provided one award if any for each string of related symbols generated in active symbol positions i.e. as opposed to a quantity of awards being based on how many paylines that would have passed through each of the strings of related symbols in active symbol positions .

In one embodiment a primary or base game may be a poker game wherein the gaming device enables the player to play a conventional game of video draw poker and initially deals five cards all face up from a virtual deck of fifty two cards. Cards may be dealt as in a traditional game of cards or in the case of the gaming device the cards may be randomly selected from a predetermined number of cards. If the player wishes to draw the player selects the cards to hold via one or more input devices such as by pressing related hold buttons or via the touch screen. The player then presses the deal button and the unwanted or discarded cards are removed from the display and the gaming machine deals the replacement cards from the remaining cards in the deck. This results in a final five card hand. The gaming device compares the final five card hand to a payout table which utilizes conventional poker hand rankings to determine the winning hands. The gaming device provides the player with an award based on a winning hand and the number of credits the player wagered.

In another embodiment the primary or base game may be a multi hand version of video poker. In this embodiment the gaming device deals the player at least two hands of cards. In one such embodiment the cards are the same cards. In one embodiment each hand of cards is associated with its own deck of cards. The player chooses the cards to hold in a primary hand. The held cards in the primary hand are also held in the other hands of cards. The remaining non held cards are removed from each hand displayed and for each hand replacement cards are randomly dealt into that hand. Since the replacement cards are randomly dealt independently for each hand the replacement cards for each hand will usually be different. The poker hand rankings are then determined hand by hand against a payout table and awards are provided to the player.

In one embodiment a primary or base game may be a keno game wherein the gaming device displays a plurality of selectable indicia or numbers on at least one of the display devices. In this embodiment the player selects at least one bit potentially a plurality of the selectable indicia or numbers via an input device such as a touch screen. The gaming device then displays a series of drawn numbers and determine an amount of matches if any between the player s selected numbers and the gaming device s drawn numbers. The player is provided an award based on the amount of matches if any based on the amount of determined matches and the number of numbers drawn.

In one embodiment in addition to winning credits or other awards in a primary or base game the gaming device may also give players the opportunity to win credits in a bonus or secondary game or in a bonus or secondary round. The bonus or secondary game enables the player to obtain a prize or payout in addition to the prize or payout if any obtained from the primary or base game. In general a bonus or secondary game produces a significantly higher level of player excitement than the primary or base game because it provides a greater expectation of winning than the primary or base game and is accompanied with more attractive or unusual features than the primary or base game. In one embodiment the bonus or secondary game may be any type of suitable game either similar to or completely different from the primary or base game.

In one embodiment the triggering event or qualifying condition may be a selected outcome in the primary game or a particular arrangement of one or more indicia on a display device in the primary game such as the number seven appearing on three adjacent reels along a payline in the primary slot game embodiment seen in . In other embodiments the triggering event or qualifying condition occurs based on exceeding a certain amount of game play such as number of games number of credits amount of time or reaching a specified number of points earned during game play.

In another embodiment the gaming device processor or central controller randomly provides the player one or more plays of one or more secondary games. In one such embodiment the gaming device does not provide any apparent reason to the player for qualifying to play a secondary or bonus game. In this embodiment qualifying for a bonus game is not triggered by an event in or based specifically on any of the plays of any primary game. That is the gaming device may simply qualify a player to play a secondary game without any explanation or alternatively with simple explanations. In another embodiment the gaming device or central server qualifies a player for a secondary game at least partially based on a game triggered or symbol triggered event such as at least partially based on the play of a primary game.

In one embodiment the gaming device includes a program which will automatically begin a bonus round after the player has achieved a triggering event or qualifying condition in the primary or base game. In another embodiment after a player has qualified for a bonus game the player may subsequently enhance his her bonus game participation through continued play on the primary or base game. Thus for each bonus qualifying event such as a bonus symbol that the player obtains a given number of bonus game wagering points or credits may be accumulated in a bonus meter programmed to accrue the bonus wagering credits or entries toward eventual participation in a bonus game. The occurrence of multiple such bonus qualifying events in the primary game may result in an arithmetic or exponential increase in the number of bonus wagering credits awarded. In one embodiment the player may redeem extra bonus wagering credits during the bonus game to extend play of the bonus game.

In one embodiment no separate entry fee or buy in for a bonus game is needed. That is a player may not purchase entry into a bonus game rather they must win or earn entry through play of the primary game thus encouraging play of the primary game. In another embodiment qualification of the bonus or secondary game is accomplished through a simple buy in by the player for example if the player has been unsuccessful at qualifying through other specified activities. In another embodiment the player must make a separate side wager on the bonus game or wager a designated amount in the primary game to qualify for the secondary game. In this embodiment the secondary game triggering event must occur and the side wager or designated primary game wager amount must have been placed to trigger the secondary game.

In one embodiment as illustrated in one or more of the gaming devices are in communication with each other and or at least one central controller through a data network or remote communication link . In this embodiment the central server central controller or remote host is any suitable server or computing device which includes at least one processor and at least one memory or storage device. In different such embodiments the central server is a progressive controller or a processor of one of the gaming devices in the gaming system. In these embodiments the processor of each gaming device is designed to transmit and receive events messages commands or any other suitable data or signal between the individual gaming device and the central server. The gaming device processor is operable to execute such communicated events messages or commands in conjunction with the operation of the gaming device. Moreover the processor of the central server is designed to transmit and receive events messages commands or any other suitable data or signal between the central server and each of the individual gaming devices. The central server processor is operable to execute such communicated events messages or commands in conjunction with the operation of the central server. It should be appreciated that one more or each of the functions of the central controller central server or remote host as disclosed herein may be performed by one or more gaming device processors. It should be further appreciated that one more or each of the functions of one or more gaming device processors as disclosed herein may be performed by the central controller central server or remote host.

In one embodiment the game outcome provided to the player is determined by a central server or controller and provided to the player at the gaming device. In this embodiment each of a plurality of such gaming devices are in communication with the central server or controller. Upon a player initiating game play at one of the gaming devices the initiated gaming device communicates a game outcome request to the central server or controller.

In one embodiment the central server or controller receives the game outcome request and randomly generates a game outcome for the primary game based on probability data. In another embodiment the central server or controller randomly generates a game outcome for the secondary game based on probability data. In another embodiment the central server or controller randomly generates a game outcome for both the primary game and the secondary game based on probability data. In this embodiment the central server or controller is capable of storing and utilizing program code or other data similar to the processor and memory device of the gaming device.

In an alternative embodiment the central server or controller maintains one or more predetermined pools or sets of predetermined game outcomes. In this embodiment the central server or controller receives the game outcome request and independently selects a predetermined game outcome from a set or pool of game outcomes. The central server or controller flags or marks the selected game outcome as used. Once a game outcome is flagged as used it is prevented from further selection from the set or pool and cannot be selected by the central controller or server upon another wager. The provided game outcome can include a primary game outcome a secondary game outcome primary and secondary game outcomes or a series of game outcomes such as free games.

The central server or controller communicates the generated or selected game outcome to the initiated gaming device. The gaming device receives the generated or selected game outcome and provides the game outcome to the player. In an alternative embodiment how the generated or selected game outcome is to be presented or displayed to the player such as a reel symbol combination of a slot machine or a hand of cards dealt in a card game is also determined by the central server or controller and communicated to the initiated gaming device to be presented or displayed to the player. Central production or control can assist a gaming establishment or other entity in maintaining appropriate records controlling gaming reducing and preventing cheating or electronic or other errors reducing or eliminating win loss volatility and the like.

In another embodiment a predetermined game outcome value is determined for each of a plurality of linked or networked gaming devices based on the results of a bingo keno or lottery game. In this embodiment each individual gaming device utilizes one or more bingo keno or lottery games to determine the predetermined game outcome value provided to the player for the interactive game played at that gaming device. In one embodiment the bingo keno or lottery game is displayed to the player. In another embodiment the bingo keno or lottery game is not displayed to the player but the results of the bingo keno or lottery game determine the predetermined game outcome value for the primary or secondary game.

In the various bingo embodiments as each gaming device is enrolled in the bingo game such as upon an appropriate wager or engaging an input device the enrolled gaming device is provided or associated with a different bingo card. Each bingo card consists of a matrix or array of elements wherein each element is designated with a separate indicia such as a number. It should be appreciated that each different bingo card includes a different combination of elements. For example if four bingo cards are provided to four enrolled gaming devices the same element may be present on all four of the bingo cards while another element may solely be present on one of the bingo cards.

In operation of these embodiments upon providing or associating a different bingo card with each of a plurality of enrolled gaming devices the central controller randomly selects or draws one at a time a plurality of the elements. As each element is selected a determination is made for each gaming device as to whether the selected element is present on the bingo card provided to that enrolled gaming device. This determination can be made by the central controller the gaming device a combination of the two or in any other suitable manner. If the selected element is present on the bingo card provided to that enrolled gaming device that selected element on the provided bingo card is marked or flagged. This process of selecting elements and marking any selected elements on the provided bingo cards continues until one or more predetermined patterns are marked on one or more of the provided bingo cards. It should be appreciated that in one embodiment the gaming device requires the player to engage a daub button not shown to initiate the process of the gaming device marking or flagging any selected elements.

After one or more predetermined patterns are marked on one or more of the provided bingo cards a game outcome is determined for each of the enrolled gaming devices based at least in part on the selected elements on the provided bingo cards. As described above the game outcome determined for each gaming device enrolled in the bingo game is utilized by that gaming device to determine the predetermined game outcome provided to the player. For example a first gaming device to have selected elements marked in a predetermined pattern is provided a first outcome of win 10 which will be provided to a first player regardless of how the first player plays in a first game and a second gaming device to have selected elements marked in a different predetermined pattern is provided a second outcome of win 2 which will be provided to a second player regardless of how the second player plays a second game. It should be appreciated that as the process of marking selected elements continues until one or more predetermined patterns are marked this embodiment ensures that at least one bingo card will win the bingo game and thus at least one enrolled gaming device will provide a predetermined winning game outcome to a player. It should be appreciated that other suitable methods for selecting or determining one or more predetermined game outcomes may be employed.

In one example of the above described embodiment the predetermined game outcome may be based on a supplemental award in addition to any award provided for winning the bingo game as described above. In this embodiment if one or more elements are marked in supplemental patterns within a designated number of drawn elements a supplemental or intermittent award or value associated with the marked supplemental pattern is provided to the player as part of the predetermined game outcome. For example if the four corners of a bingo card are marked within the first twenty selected elements a supplemental award of 10 is provided to the player as part of the predetermined game outcome. It should be appreciated that in this embodiment the player of a gaming device may be provided a supplemental or intermittent award regardless of whether the enrolled gaming device s provided bingo card wins or does not win the bingo game as described above.

In another embodiment one or more of the gaming devices are in communication with a central server or controller for monitoring purposes only. That is each individual gaming device randomly generates the game outcomes to be provided to the player and the central server or controller monitors the activities and events occurring on the plurality of gaming devices. In one embodiment the gaming network includes a real time or on line accounting and gaming information system operably coupled to the central server or controller. The accounting and gaming information system of this embodiment includes a player database for storing player profiles a player tracking module for tracking players and a credit system for providing automated casino transactions.

In one embodiment the gaming device disclosed herein is associated with or otherwise integrated with one or more player tracking systems. Player tracking systems enable gaming establishments to recognize the value of customer loyalty through identifying frequent customers and rewarding them for their patronage. In one embodiment the gaming device and or player tracking system tracks any player s gaming activity at the gaming device. In one such embodiment the gaming device includes at least one card reader in communication with the processor. In this embodiment a player is issued a player identification card which has an encoded player identification number that uniquely identifies the player. When a player inserts their playing tracking card into the card reader to begin a gaming session the card reader reads the player identification number off the player tracking card to identify the player. The gaming device and or associated player tracking system timely tracks any suitable information or data relating to the identified player s gaming session. Directly or via the central controller the gaming device processor communicates such information to the player tracking system. The gaming device and or associated player tracking system also timely tracks when a player removes their player tracking card when concluding play for that gaming session. In another embodiment rather than requiring a player to insert a player tracking card the gaming device utilizes one or more portable devices carried by a player such as a cell phone a radio frequency identification tag or any other suitable wireless device to track when a player begins and ends a gaming session. In another embodiment the gaming device utilizes any suitable biometric technology or ticket technology to track when a player begins and ends a gaming session.

During one or more gaming sessions the gaming device and or player tracking system tracks any suitable information or data such as any amounts wagered average wager amounts and or the time at which these wagers are placed. In different embodiments for one or more players the player tracking system includes the player s account number the player s card number the player s first name the player s surname the player s preferred name the player s player tracking ranking any promotion status associated with the player s player tracking card the player s address the player s birthday the players anniversary the players recent gaming sessions or any other suitable data. In one embodiment such tracked information and or any suitable feature associated with the player tracking system is displayed on a player tracking display . In another embodiment such tracked information and or any suitable feature associated with the player tracking system is displayed via one or more service windows not shown which are displayed on the central display device and or the upper display device.

In one embodiment a plurality of the gaming devices are capable of being connected together through a data network. In one embodiment the data network is a local area network LAN in which one or more of the gaming devices are substantially proximate to each other and an on site central server or controller as in for example a gaming establishment or a portion of a gaming establishment. In another embodiment the data network is a wide area network WAN in which one or more of the gaming devices are in communication with at least one off site central server or controller. In this embodiment the plurality of gaming devices may be located in a different part of the gaming establishment or within a different gaming establishment than the off site central server or controller. Thus the WAN may include an off site central server or controller and an off site gaming device located within gaming establishments in the same geographic area such as a city or state. The WAN gaming system may be substantially identical to the LAN gaming system described above although the number of gaming devices in each system may vary relative to one another.

In another embodiment the data network is an internet or intranet. In this embodiment the operation of the gaming device can be viewed at the gaming device with at least one internet browser. In this embodiment operation of the gaming device and accumulation of credits may be accomplished with only a connection to the central server or controller the internet intranet server through a conventional phone or other data transmission line digital subscriber line DSL T 1 line coaxial cable fiber optic cable or other suitable connection. In this embodiment players may access an internet game page from any location where an internet connection and computer or other Internet facilitator is available. The expansion in the number of computers and number and speed of internet connections in recent years increases opportunities for players to play from an ever increasing number of remote sites. It should be appreciated that the enhanced bandwidth of digital wireless communications may render such technology suitable for some or all communications particularly if such communications are encrypted. Higher data transmission speeds may be useful for enhancing the sophistication and response of the display and interaction with the player.

As mentioned above in one embodiment the present disclosure may be employed in a server based gaming system. In one such embodiment as described above one or more gaming devices are in communication with a central server or controller. The central server or controller may be any suitable server or computing device which includes at least one processor and a memory or storage device. In alternative embodiments the central server is a progressive controller or another gaming machine in the gaming system. In one embodiment the memory device of the central server stores different game programs and instructions executable by a gaming device processor to control the gaming device. Each executable game program represents a different game or type of game which may be played on one or more of the gaming devices in the gaming system. Such different games may include the same or substantially the same game play with different pay tables. In different embodiments the executable game program is for a primary game a secondary game or both. In another embodiment the game program may be executable as a secondary game to be played simultaneous with the play of a primary game which may be downloaded to or static on the gaming device or vice versa.

In this embodiment each gaming device at least includes one or more display devices and or one or more input devices for interaction with a player. A local processor such as the above described gaming device processor or a processor of a local server is operable with the display device s and or the input device s of one or more of the gaming devices.

In operation the central controller is operable to communicate one or more of the stored game programs to at least one local processor. In different embodiments the stored game programs are communicated or delivered by embedding the communicated game program in a device or a component e.g. a microchip to be inserted in a gaming device writing the game program on a disc or other media or downloading or streaming the game program over a dedicated data network internet or a telephone line. After the stored game programs are communicated from the central server the local processor executes the communicated program to facilitate play of the communicated program by a player through the display device s and or input device s of the gaming device. That is when a game program is communicated to a local processor the local processor changes the game or type of game played at the gaming device.

In another embodiment a plurality of gaming devices at one or more gaming sites may be networked to the central server in a progressive configuration as known in the art wherein a portion of each wager to initiate a primary or base game may be allocated to one or more progressive awards. In one embodiment a progressive gaming system host site computer is coupled to a plurality of the central servers at a variety of mutually remote gaming sites for providing a multi site linked progressive automated gaming system. In one embodiment a progressive gaming system host site computer may serve gaming devices distributed throughout a number of properties at different geographical locations including for example different locations within a city or different cities within a state.

In one embodiment the progressive gaming system host site computer is maintained for the overall operation and control of the progressive gaming system. In this embodiment a progressive gaming system host site computer oversees the entire progressive gaming system and is the master for computing all progressive jackpots. All participating gaming sites report to and receive information from the progressive gaming system host site computer. Each central server computer is responsible for all data communication between the gaming device hardware and software and the progressive gaming system host site computer. In one embodiment an individual gaming machine may trigger a progressive award win. In another embodiment a central server or the progressive gaming system host site computer determines when a progressive award win is triggered. In another embodiment an individual gaming machine and a central controller or progressive gaming system host site computer work in conjunction with each other to determine when a progressive win is triggered for example through an individual gaming machine meeting a predetermined requirement established by the central controller.

In one embodiment a progressive award win is triggered based on one or more game play events such as a symbol driven trigger. In other embodiments the progressive award triggering event or qualifying condition may be achieved by exceeding a certain amount of game play such as number of games number of credits or amount of time or reaching a specified number of points earned during game play. In another embodiment a gaming device is randomly or apparently randomly selected to provide a player of that gaming device one or more progressive awards. In one such embodiment the gaming device does not provide any apparent reasons to the player for winning a progressive award wherein winning the progressive award is not triggered by an event in or based specifically on any of the plays of any primary game. That is a player is provided a progressive award without any explanation or alternatively with simple explanations. In another embodiment a player is provided a progressive award at least partially based on a game triggered or symbol triggered event such as at least partially based on the play of a primary game.

In one embodiment one or more of the progressive awards are each funded via a side bet or side wager. In this embodiment a player must place or wager a side bet to be eligible to win the progressive award associated with the side bet. In one embodiment the player must place the maximum bet and the side bet to be eligible to win one of the progressive awards. In another embodiment if the player places or wagers the required side bet the player may wager at any credit amount during the primary game i.e. the player need not place the maximum bet and the side bet to be eligible to win one of the progressive awards . In one such embodiment the greater the player s wager in addition to the placed side bet the greater the odds or probability that the player will win one of the progressive awards. It should be appreciated that one or more of the progressive awards may each be funded at least in part based on the wagers placed on the primary games of the gaming machines in the gaming system via a gaming establishment or via any suitable manner.

In another embodiment one or more of the progressive awards are partially funded via a side bet or side wager which the player may make and which may be tracked via a side bet meter . In one embodiment one or more of the progressive awards are funded with only side bets or side wagers placed. In another embodiment one or more of the progressive awards are funded based on player s wagers as described above as well as any side bets or side wagers placed.

In one alternative embodiment a minimum wager level is required for a gaming device to qualify to be selected to obtain one of the progressive awards. In one embodiment this minimum wager level is the maximum wager level for the primary game in the gaming machine. In another embodiment no minimum wager level is required for a gaming machine to qualify to be selected to obtain one of the progressive awards.

In another embodiment a plurality of players at a plurality of linked gaming devices in a gaming system participate in a group gaming environment. In one embodiment a plurality of players at a plurality of linked gaming devices work in conjunction with one another such as by playing together as a team or group to win one or more awards. In one such embodiment any award won by the group is shared either equally or based on any suitable criteria amongst the different players of the group. In another embodiment a plurality of players at a plurality of linked gaming devices compete against one another for one or more awards. In one such embodiment a plurality of players at a plurality of linked gaming devices participate in a gaming tournament for one or more awards. In another embodiment a plurality of players at a plurality of linked gaming devices play for one or more awards wherein an outcome generated by one gaming device affects the outcomes generated by one or more linked gaming devices.

In one embodiment the disclosed gaming system provides an additional win opportunity including a cascading symbol feature following an occurrence of an ending condition during a play of a game. The gaming system provides the additional win opportunity in response to additional win opportunity criteria being satisfied. The additional win opportunity criteria may include a determination as to whether the player provided an optional portion of a wager on a play of a game.

In one embodiment the gaming system provides a play of the game including a cascading symbol feature. For the play of the game the gaming system displays a plurality of symbols in a plurality of symbol positions and determines whether any winning symbol combinations are displayed. If any winning symbol combinations are displayed the gaming system provides an award to the player and removes at least one symbol from at least one winning symbol combination. After removal the gaming system fills the resulting empty symbol positions by shifting symbols within the arrangement of symbols and or by randomly generating symbols to fill then empty symbol positions.

In one embodiment the gaming system enables a player to access an additional win opportunity following the determination that a designated ending condition has occurred. If during play of the game the gaming system determines that a designated ending condition has occurred e.g. by determining that no winning symbol combinations are displayed either initially or following filling of empty symbol positions the gaming system determines whether to provide an additional win opportunity to the player. In one embodiment this determination is based on appropriate additional win opportunity criteria such as whether the player made a wager associated with the additional win opportunity prior to the play of the game.

The additional win opportunity in one embodiment of the disclosed gaming system includes a cascading symbol feature. During such an additional win opportunity the gaming system removes one or more symbols from the arrangement of symbol positions and shifts or generates symbols to fill the empty symbol positions. If any winning symbol combinations are displayed the gaming system provides an appropriate additional award for the additional win opportunity. The additional win opportunity may thereafter end or alternatively may continue with the removal of one or more symbols shifting of zero or more symbols generating of one or more symbols and determination of any award based on any then generated winning symbol combinations as described with respect to the play of the game.

According to the illustrated embodiment of the process for operating the disclosed gaming system the process begins with the gaming system displaying an arrangement of symbol positions as indicated by block and by enabling a player to wager on a play of a game as illustrated by block . In one embodiment a first portion of the wager amount is associated with the play of the game and a second portion of the wager amount is an optional wager portion associated with the additional win opportunity such that if the player elects to provide the optional wager portion player qualifies for the gaming system to make a determination whether the player is eligible for participation in the additional win opportunity.

Upon receiving a wager the gaming system generates one of a plurality of symbols in each symbol position of the arrangement of symbols for the play of the game as indicated by block . The gaming system then determines if the game ending condition has occurred by determining if any winning symbol combinations are generated as indicated by diamond . If the game ending condition has not occurred i.e. if at least one winning symbol combination is generated the gaming system provides an award to the player based on the generated winning symbol combinations as indicated by block . The gaming system thereafter removes the symbols from at least one winning symbol combination as indicated by block and shifts the remaining symbols downward where possible to fill any empty symbol positions as indicated by block . The gaming system fills any then remaining empty symbol positions i.e. after shifting symbols downward where possible by generating one of the plurality of symbols to fill each such empty symbol position as indicated by block . The gaming system repeats the determination of whether the game ending condition has occurred by determining whether any winning symbol combinations are generated as indicated by diamond .

In one exemplary embodiment if the gaming system determines that the game ending condition has occurred by determining that no winning symbol combinations are generated during the play of the game as indicated by diamond either following initial generation of symbols or following shifting and generation of symbols to fill empty symbol positions the gaming system determines whether to provide the player with the disclosed additional win opportunity as indicated by diamond . For example the gaming system may determine whether to provide the additional win opportunity based on whether certain additional win opportunity criteria are satisfied such as by determining whether the players wager on the play of the game included the optional wager portion providable to be eligible for the additional win opportunity and if so whether the player. If the determination is to not provide the player with the additional win opportunity as indicated by diamond the play of the game ends and the gaming system again enables the player to wager on a play of the game as indicated by block .

If however the determination is to provide the additional win opportunity to the player e.g. based on the additional win opportunity criteria as indicated by diamond the gaming system removes at least one symbol from the arrangement of symbol positions based on appropriate removal criteria as indicated in block . For example the gaming system removes at least one player selected symbol such as by removing each occurrence of a player selected symbol from the symbol matrix. In one embodiment the removal criteria do not include the criterion of whether the symbol is included in a winning symbol combination. In this embodiment the removal of symbols during the additional win opportunity is independent of the play of the game prior to the occurrence of the designated ending condition.

Following symbol removal according to removal criteria the gaming system shifts any remaining symbols downward as far as possible to fill empty symbol positions as indicated by block . The gaming system thereafter generates and displays symbols from the plurality of symbols to fill any then remaining empty symbol positions as indicated by block . In this illustrated embodiment the gaming system provides any additional award for the additional win opportunity that is the gaming system provides an award based on any generated winning symbol combinations displayed in the arrangement of symbol positions as indicated by block .

In the illustrated embodiment after providing any award for the additional win opportunity as indicated by block the gaming system enables the player to begin a new play of the game by placing another wager on the play of the game as indicated by block . It should be appreciated that in other embodiments following a determination that at least one winning symbol combination is displayed during the additional win opportunity the gaming system removes one or more symbols from the winning symbol combination and fill the resulting empty symbol positions by shifting and or generating symbols as discussed above. In this embodiment the additional win opportunity thus provides a player with an opportunity to generate a plurality of winning symbol combinations during a single additional win opportunity.

In the embodiment illustrated in B C D E F G and H the gaming system displays a screen using the display device of the gaming device illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment the screen includes a symbol matrix having a plurality of symbol positions arranged as a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns of symbol positions. Specifically the symbol matrix includes three rows of symbol positions and and five columns of symbol positions and . The gaming system also displays a game information display area in which the gaming system displays messages and other information to a player about the status of a play of the game. The gaming system displays an award display area in which the gaming system displays the players accumulated award for a play of the game.

In the illustrated embodiment the game information display area includes a plurality of areas which each display particular status information about a play of the disclosed game. Specifically the game information display area includes a primary wager display area and an additional win opportunity wager display area . In the illustrated embodiment the primary wager display area indicates a wager or a portion of a wager made by a player on a play of the game and is not associated with any additional win opportunity. Thus in exchange for the wager indicated in wager area the disclosed gaming system enables the player to play the game. Likewise in the illustrated embodiment the additional win opportunity wager display area indicates a wager or a portion of a wager made by a player on an additional win opportunity following completion of the play of the game. Thus in exchange for the wager indicated in additional win opportunity wager area the disclosed gaming system enables the player to participate in the additional win opportunity following the play of the game. It should be appreciated that in other embodiments as discussed in more detail below a player is not required to provide an additional wager in exchange for the ability to participate in the additional win opportunity or is not guaranteed entry simply for having made such an additional wager.

The illustrated game information display area also includes a game status display area that is configured to display an indication such as a textual indication of the status of the play of the game at certain points in time during the play of the game. Specifically the game status display area is configured to display information indicating what has occurred e.g. whether a winning symbol combination was generated and or what will occur e.g. whether symbols will be removed shifted or generated .

For plays of the game in the embodiment illustrated in B C D E F G and H the gaming system randomly generates one of a plurality of symbols in each of the plurality of symbol positions. Specifically the gaming system is configured to generate symbols selected from the group consisting of 7 symbols 8 symbols 9 symbols 10 symbols J symbols Q symbols K symbols and A symbols. The gaming system determines whether winning symbol combinations exist based on whether combinations of the same symbols are displayed in designated predetermined winning symbol patterns within the symbol matrix. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments other sets of symbols other sets of winning symbol combinations and other sets of designated patterns could be used with the disclosed gaming system.

Referring now specifically to in the illustrated embodiment the gaming system is configured to enable a player to wager on a play of a game and to elect to wager on an additional win opportunity providable following the play of the game. Specifically at the point in time illustrated in the player wagered ten credits on the play of the game as indicated in primary wager area and elected to wager five credits on the additional win opportunity as indicated in additional win opportunity wager area . Thus for the illustrated play of the game the player s total wager is fifteen credits and in exchange for those fifteen credits the gaming system will enable the player to have a chance to participate in the play of the game and in the additional win opportunity.

It should be appreciated that in the illustrated embodiment five credits represents a large enough or sufficient wager that gaming system enables the player to have a chance to participate in the additional win opportunity. In this embodiment an amount of a wager on an additional win opportunity may impact the functioning of the gaming system. It should be further appreciated that in the illustrated embodiment the player s wager on the additional win opportunity is optional that is the player can wager on the play of the game and can participate in the play of the game without having to risk any additional credits in exchange for the additional win opportunity.

At the point in time illustrated in the gaming system has generated and displayed a plurality of symbols in symbol matrix some of which form a winning symbol combination . Based on this winning symbol combination the gaming system determines that the designated ending condition has not occurred. Specifically winning symbol combination spans columns and and includes four 7 symbols. In the illustrated embodiment the game status display area indicates that the player generated a winning symbol combination for the play of the game and the gaming system displays an award of fifty credits which is associated with the winning symbol combination in the award display area .

In the illustrated embodiment the game status display area also displays an indication that the player wagered enough to be eligible to participate in the additional win opportunity. The status display area further displays an indication that the player has been selected to participate in the additional win opportunity. Specifically because of the player s wager of five credits on the additional win opportunity as represented by additional win opportunity wager display area the gaming system in the illustrated embodiment informs the player that upon completion of the play of the game i.e. when the designated ending condition occurs the gaming system made the determination one or more symbols will be removed and symbols will be shifted providing the player with the disclosed additional win opportunity.

It should be appreciated that in other embodiments the gaming system does not guarantee the player the opportunity to participate in the additional win opportunity if the player provides the appropriate wager amount. Rather in other embodiments the gaming system makes a determination as to whether to enable the player to participate in the additional win opportunity in the event that the player has provided a sufficient wager to be eligible for the additional win opportunity.

Referring now to the display device displays a point in time after shifting available symbols downward to fill the empty symbol positions resulting from removing the symbols of winning symbol combination . Specifically after the shifting illustrated in the gaming system displays empty symbol positions at row column at row column at row column and at row column . The game status display area displays a message to the player indicating that additional symbols will be generated to fill the empty symbol positions resulting from the described shifting.

In the illustrated embodiment since play of the game has ended i.e. the designated ending condition has occurred the gaming system also determines whether the player qualifies to participate in the additional win opportunity. Since the player wagered five credits on the additional win opportunity as indicated by additional win opportunity wager area the gaming system displays a message indicating that the player s wager qualified him or her for the additional win opportunity. In various embodiments discussed below the player qualifies for the additional win opportunity based on other criteria such as based on a random determination a status of the player as reflected in a player tracking system or another suitable qualifying mechanism.

Referring now to the disclosed gaming system is illustrated at a point in time after symbols have been generated to fill the empty symbol positions of the additional win opportunity. In the illustrated embodiment following shifting and generation of new symbols the gaming system displays a winning symbol combination in row of symbol matrix . It should be appreciated that the winning symbol combination represents a win achieved during the additional win opportunity disclosed herein. To this end game status display area displays an indication that the player obtained a winning symbol combination in the additional win opportunity and updates the award display area to reflect an award associated with the additional win opportunity. The award display area of thus indicates that for the play of the game including the play of the game and the additional win opportunity the player won an award of two hundred fifty credits. That is the player won an award of fifty credits for the play of the game and an additional award of two hundred credits for the additional win opportunity. In the illustrated embodiment after the winning symbol combination is generated the additional win opportunity ends. It should be appreciated that in other embodiments discussed in more detail below the additional win opportunity may continue by for example removing the symbols from the winning symbol combination and performing the above described shifting and generating of symbols to fill the empty symbol combinations.

In the illustrated embodiment the designated ending condition occurs and the gaming system makes a determination of whether to provide the additional win opportunity when no winning symbol combinations are displayed in the symbol matrix . In other embodiments which are not shown the gaming system determines whether the designated ending condition occurs at least in part based on other criteria such as based on whether a winning symbol combination associated with a designated award occurs whether a particular symbol is displayed or some other appropriate condition. In various embodiments whether a designated ending condition occurs is predetermined randomly determined determined based on the player s status such as determined through a player tracking system determined based on a generated symbol or symbol combination determined based on a random determination by the central controller determined based on a random determination at the gaming machine determined based on one or more side wagers placed determined based on the player s primary game wager determined based on time such as the time of day determined based on an amount of coin in accumulated in one or more pools or determined based on any other suitable method or criteria.

In various embodiments the gaming system disclosed herein enables the player to participate in the additional win opportunity if one or more additional win opportunity criteria are satisfied. In one such embodiment such as the embodiment described above with respect to B C D E F G and H the additional win opportunity criteria is satisfied and the disclosed gaming system enables the player to participate in the additional win opportunity if the player makes an appropriate wager prior to participating in the play of the game and if the gaming system subsequently determines that the player is eligible to participate in the additional win opportunity. In another embodiment the additional win opportunity criteria is satisfied based on a wager by the player placed following the occurrence of the designated ending condition that is after a set of symbols is displayed which do not form any winning symbol combination. In another embodiment the gaming system determines whether to enable the player to participate in the additional win opportunity based at least in part on at least one secondary device such as a wheel a secondary reel a pointing device a top box display a light box display or the like . For example the gaming system determines whether to enable the player to participate in the additional win opportunity based at least in part on a spin of a secondary wheel device associated with the gaming device at which the player is playing.

In one embodiment the initial wager placed by the player does not include a separate wager amount allocated to the additional win opportunity. Rather in this embodiment the wager on the play of the game includes a portion allocated to the play of the game and a portion allocated to enabling the player to be eligible for the additional win opportunity. In another embodiment the gaming system enables the player to participate in the additional win opportunity without having to risk any additional credits for the play of the game.

In various embodiments such as the embodiment discussed above the disclosed gaming system begins the additional win opportunity by removing at least one symbol from display such as from the symbol matrix despite the at least one symbol not being included in any winning symbol combinations. In one embodiment which symbol s are removed from the symbol matrix is predetermined and is not altered during the play of the game. In another embodiment the gaming system enables the player to select at least one symbol from the symbol matrix which is to be removed following play of the game. In an embodiment the gaming system removes each instance of a symbol selected by the player. In another embodiment the gaming system removes each symbol sharing a characteristic with a symbol selected by the player such as by removing each symbol that is of a same color of a same category as the symbol selected by the player.

In one embodiment the gaming system randomly selects one or more symbols to remove from the symbol matrix based in part on the actual symbol displayed. In a further embodiment the gaming system randomly selects any symbols to remove from the symbol matrix based at least in part on a secondary device associated with the gaming system. For example the gaming system determines which if any symbols to remove based on a spin of a secondary wheel device associated with the gaming device at which the player is wagering on plays of the game.

In another embodiment the gaming system randomly selects one or more positions of the symbol matrix and removes symbols displayed therein without regard for which symbols are displayed. In one embodiment the gaming system enables a player to select a symbol position and removes symbols from that symbol position regardless of which symbols are contained therein. In various embodiments wherein positions of the symbol matrix are selected either by the gaming system or by the player the gaming system removes only those symbols displayed in the selected positions. In other embodiments the gaming system removes each symbol that matches or shares a characteristic with the symbols displayed in the selected symbol position.

In one embodiment the gaming system removes all the symbols displayed in the symbol matrix or in a certain pattern of the symbol matrix such as within a designated row or column of the symbol matrix. In one embodiment each symbol displayed in the symbol matrix is removed to begin the additional win opportunity. In various other embodiments which symbols are removed to begin the additional win opportunity is predetermined randomly determined determined based on the player s status such as determined through a player tracking system determined based on a generated symbol or symbol combination determined based on a random determination by the central controller determined based on a random determination at the gaming machine determined based on one or more side wagers placed determined based on the players primary game wager determined based on time such as the time of day determined based on an amount of coin in accumulated in one or more pools or determined based on any other suitable method or criteria. It should be appreciated that the selection of symbols to be removed could further be based on a combination of any of the individual mechanisms disclosed herein.

In one embodiment after the gaming system removes one or more symbols from the symbol matrix during the additional win opportunity the gaming system shifts and generates symbols determines whether any winning symbol combinations are present provides any award if any winning symbol combinations are present and ends the additional win opportunity. In another embodiment the gaming system removes one or more symbols from any winning symbol combinations generated during the additional win opportunity and fills empty symbol positions by shifting and generating as described until no further winning symbol combinations are generated. In one embodiment whether the gaming system removes symbols from winning symbol combinations generated during the additional win opportunity is predetermined randomly determined determined based on the player s status such as determined through a player tracking system determined based on a generated symbol or symbol combination determined based on a random determination by the central controller determined based on a random determination at the gaming machine determined based on one or more side wagers placed determined based on the player s primary game wager determined based on time such as the time of day determined based on an amount of coin in accumulated in one or more pools or determined based on any other suitable method or criteria.

In one embodiment the gaming system removes sets of designated symbols following a determination that no winning symbol combinations are generated more than once during the additional win opportunity such that at least one winning symbol combination is generated during the additional win opportunity. For example if the gaming system removes symbols for the additional win opportunity fills empty symbol positions as described and determines that no winning symbol combinations are generated for the additional win opportunity the gaming system may repeat the removal of symbols such as by removing the same kind of symbol or by removing symbols from the same symbol locations a second time during the additional win opportunity. It should thus be appreciated that the one embodiment of the disclosed gaming system ensures that a player will win at least some award during the additional win opportunity by removing symbols shifting symbols and generating new symbols until at least one winning symbol combination is generated.

In one embodiment the gaming system provides an additional win opportunity only if a triggering event occurs in the play of the game. For example a triggering condition may require that three of a certain type of symbol be generated in a play of the game for the additional win opportunity to be provided. In a further embodiment the additional win opportunity is provided according to or based on the triggering condition that occurred. For example if the triggering condition required that three of the certain type of symbol be generated during the play of the primary game the additional win opportunity in one embodiment includes removing each instance of that certain type of symbol during the additional win opportunity and shifting and generating symbols as described herein to fill resulting empty symbol positions.

In one embodiment during either the play of the game or during the additional win opportunity the gaming system shifts symbols according to a predetermined rule if the symbols have a predetermined spatial relationship. For example if the predetermined spatial relationship is satisfied when a symbol is displayed adjacent to and above an empty symbol position the gaming system may shift symbols downward as far as possible so long as that predetermined spatial relationship exists. In various embodiments the predetermined spatial relationship exists if a symbol is displayed horizontally adjacent vertically adjacent diagonal to or in some other spatial relationship with an empty symbol position. In various embodiments the predetermined rule includes shifting symbols one more than one or as far as possible in a designated direction. In other embodiments the predetermined rule includes shifting certain symbols in a first direction and shifting certain other symbols in a different second direction.

In one embodiment the gaming system enables a player to select one or more symbol locations from which symbols are removed during the additional win opportunity after the play of the game. In another embodiment the gaming system enables the player to select such locations prior to the play of the game such that the player does not know which symbols will be removed from the symbol matrix.

In another embodiment the gaming system displays a pop up menu to the player and enables the player to select from among a plurality of different mechanisms including those mechanisms discussed above by which to remove symbols from the symbol matrix during the additional win opportunity. In one embodiment one or more of the mechanisms displayed to the player include an associated price and the player has the option to provide credits equal to the price of the mechanism in exchange for the gaming system removing symbols according to the selected mechanism. In another embodiment in exchange for providing a wager prior to the play of the game or prior to the additional win opportunity the player is provided with a menu containing a plurality of removal mechanisms selected based on the amount of the wager. In various embodiments the gaming system enables the player to pick which mechanism to use to remove symbols during the additional win opportunity prior to during or after the play of the game.

In one embodiment the gaming system disclosed herein requires the player to risk an amount of credits in exchange for the opportunity to participate in the additional win opportunity. In one embodiment the amount the player must risk for the additional win opportunity is based on an expected outcome of the additional win opportunity. For example if a player chooses particular symbols or positions to remove from the symbol matrix the cost of the opportunity to choose such symbols or positions is based on the expected outcome of removal of the chosen symbols or positions. In one embodiment wherein which symbols are removed is determined at random the gaming system requires the player to provide a static or constant fee based on the overall expected outcome resulting from random symbols being removed from the symbol matrix.

In one embodiment if a player or the gaming system selects one or more symbols to remove from the symbol matrix such that a relatively good outcome is expected the wager required for that opportunity may be relatively high. Further if the player or the gaming system picks more symbols for removal during the additional win opportunity the wager required for that opportunity may be relatively higher.

In one embodiment the gaming system enables a player to provide a wager in exchange for a package of additional win opportunities. For example a player may be presented with a package containing different numbers of symbols that can be selected different options for selecting symbols such as the option to select symbol locations for removal versus the option to select symbols and to have each instance of such selected symbols be removed or other variations of selection mechanisms wherein each option of the package is available if the package is purchased. Thus a player may purchase a package with ten different options applicable during ten different additional win opportunities and may use those options as the player sees fit following ten plays of a game. In a further embodiment the gaming system ranks packages offered to the player and prices the packages accordingly. For example the gaming system enables a player to select from a low advantage package a medium advantage package and a high advantage package wherein the wager required for the low advantage package is the lowest and wherein the wager required for the high advantage package is the highest.

In one embodiment assuming the additional win opportunity criteria are satisfied an additional win opportunity follows a play of a game regardless of whether the play resulted in a winning outcome. In another embodiment even if the additional win opportunity criteria are satisfied an additional win opportunity follows only a losing game outcome or only a winning game outcome. In these embodiments if the additional win opportunity requires a player to place a wager prior to the play of the game and the appropriate game outcome does not occur the wager is returned to the player. Alternatively the gaming system may only require a wager from a player if the additional win opportunity criteria are satisfied and the player is eligible for the additional win opportunity i.e. if the appropriate primary game outcome such as a winning or losing outcome occurs .

In one embodiment the gaming system generates one or more new symbols to fill one or more empty symbol positions based on one or more reel strips utilized to generate symbols during the play of the game. In another embodiment the gaming system varies the order of symbols on the reel strip used to generate the new symbols to reduce the predictability of which symbols will be generated in the empty symbol positions for the play of the game. In one embodiment this variation of the order of symbols of the reel strip results from a random determination of symbols such that the reel strip is not relevant to newly generated symbols. In other embodiments different reel strips are used to generate new symbols. For example these different reel strips could be especially made for use during the additional win opportunity and could include a uniform symbol frequency could be normal reel strips could be reel strips that are especially likely to generate certain symbols e.g. wild rich reel strips or could be other reel strips adapted to provide a player with a desired gaming experience.

In one embodiment the disclosed additional win opportunity can be provided in association with a game which is not a cascading or tumbling reels game. For example a known game played according to its own rules can be provided to a player. Upon a determination that a designated ending condition has occurred in the play of the game if the player is eligible to participate in the additional win opportunity the disclosed gaming system enables one or more symbols from the play of the game to be removed and causes the disclosed shifting and generation to occur. The gaming system thereafter provides awards based on any further winning symbol combinations that are generated. Thus it should be appreciated that the disclosed additional win opportunity may be provided in association with a non cascading game and or may be added to or retrofitted with an existing game regardless of whether that existing game performed the removal shifting and generation of symbols described above.

In one embodiment the gaming system disclosed herein enables a player to activate a further bonus event or opportunity during the additional win opportunity. For example if a designated triggering event occurs during the additional win opportunity e.g. if a certain winning symbol combination is generated the gaming system in one embodiment enables a player to participate in a further bonus opportunity separate from the additional win opportunity. Thus it should be appreciated that while the additional win opportunity described above may provide players with awards during the additional win opportunity the additional win opportunity may also provide players with an opportunity to participate in further plays of one or more games such as one or more additional bonus games.

In one embodiment the gaming system is configured to suggest one or more symbols for removal during the additional win opportunity. That is the gaming system displays to a player a suggested symbol or symbols to remove from the symbol matrix. The suggested symbols may represent a set of best or most advantageous symbols to remove from the symbol matrix such that removing the suggested symbols results in the most advantageous expected outcome. In one embodiment if a player waits for a designated amount of time prior to selecting one or more symbols to remove from the display the gaming system removes the suggested symbols from the display. In another embodiment if a player waits longer than a designated amount of time before selecting symbols to remove the gaming system removes some other i.e. non suggested set of symbols such as a randomly determined set of symbols or a set of symbols determine according to another mechanism as disclosed herein.

It should thus be appreciated that the disclosed gaming system advantageously enables a player to either win an award for a play of a game that otherwise would have resulted in an award of zero and or enables a player to increase an amount of an award won for a play of a game beyond that typically available for the play of the game. The disclosed gaming system also advantageously enables a cascading or tumbling feature to be added to a game which is not otherwise a cascading or tumbling game. In addition the disclosed gaming system increase player excitement and enjoyment by enabling the player to attempt to play a game according to strategy whether that strategy is actual or perceived. The disclosed gaming system also advantageously enables a player to force a particular type or pattern of cascading or tumbling such as by causing a symbol on the bottom row of a symbol matrix to be removed and thus causing the symbols above it to cascade or tumble downward in the hopes of obtaining a larger award or activating some other bonus event.

It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present subject matter and without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.

