---

title: Tapered slot antenna
abstract: Methods, antennas and other embodiments associated with impedance matching an antenna feed slot are based on a fractal shape. A slot antenna includes a planar metal sheet. A feed slot opening is formed in the metal sheet. The feed slot has a first end and a second end. A tapered opening is formed in the metal sheet. Adjacent sides of the tapered opening touch the first end of the feed slot. An impedance matching fractal shaped opening is formed in the metal. The impedance matching fractal shaped opening touches the second end of the feed slot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08279128&OS=08279128&RS=08279128
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08279128
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100507
---
The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. FA86290 06 G 4028 0008 awarded by the United States Air Force. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to apparatus and systems for transmitting and sending electromagnetic radiation. More particularly the apparatus and systems relate to transmitting and sending electromagnetic radiation with antennas. Specifically the apparatus and systems of the present invention involve a tapered slot antenna for transmitting and sending electromagnetic signals.

Tapered slot antennas TSAs belong to the general class of end fire travelling wave antennas and include a tapered slot etched onto a thin film of metal. A TSA can be very economically etched onto a printed circuit board PCB film with or without a dielectric substrate on one side of the film. TSAs can be formed on PCBs of mobile devices such as cellular telephones. Besides being efficient and lightweight TSAs are often used because they can work over a large frequency bandwidth and produce a symmetrical end fire beam with appreciable gain and low side lobes. TSAs also generally have wider bandwidth higher directivity and are able to produce more symmetrical radiation patterns than other antennas such as horn antennas.

TSAs are a class of endfire antennas known as surface wave antennas. Several types of TSAs exist the most common being linear tapered slot antennas LTSAs Vivaldi tapered slot antennas VTSAs and constant width tapered slot antennas CWTAs . The beam widths of CWSAs are typically the smallest followed by LTSAs and VTSAs. The side lobe levels are typically the largest for VTSAs followed by LTSAs and CWSAs.

A TSA is formed by slowly increasing the width of a slot from the point of its feed to an open end of width generally greater than 2 where is the center frequency. The impedance bandwidth and radiation patterns of the TSA are greatly affected by parameters such as length width and taper profile of the TSA. The dielectric substrate s thickness and relative permittivity can also contribute to the efficiency of the antenna. While current TSA s provide good performance characteristics at relatively inexpensive costs improvements can be made.

The preferred embodiment of a slot antenna includes a dielectric sheet and a metal sheet on the dielectric sheet. The metal sheet includes a slot opening a tapered opening and an impedance matching opening in the metal sheet. The slot opening is formed in the metal sheet with a first end and a second end. The tapered opening is formed in the metal sheet beginning at the first end of the slot and ending at a side of the metal sheet. The tapered opening generally increases from the first end of the slot toward the side of the metal sheet. The impedance matching opening in the metal sheet is formed in the shape of a fractal adjacent the second end of the slot opening. The impedance matching opening is formed to act as an open circuit.

In one configuration of the preferred embodiment the impedance matching opening is formed in the shape of a Koch fractal. The Koch fractal is based at least in part on a triangle. The Koch fractal is at least a second order Koch fractal. The impedance matching opening in the fractal shape is shaped with at least two major arms. One of at least two major arms is adjacent and touches the second end of the slot opening. At least two major arms are spaced apart equal circumferential distances from each other in a generally circular pattern. At least two major arms have arm tips that touch a circle around the impedance matching opening.

In one configuration of the preferred embodiment the slot antenna has an impedance matching opening shaped with six major arms spaced apart equal circumferential distances from each other in a generally circular pattern. At least one minor arm extends outwardly from each major arm. The major arms include arm bases. Arm bases that are adjacent each other contact each other forming an open area defined by an inner circle.

Another configuration of the preferred embodiment includes a method. The method creates a slot antenna by creating a slot a tapered opening and a fractal shaped opening. The method creates a slot in a metal sheet with a first end and a second end. A tapered opening is created in the metal sheet beginning at the first end of the slot. The tapered opening increases from the first end to an outer edge of the metal sheet. A fractal shaped opening is created in the metal sheet adjacent the second end of the slot.

The method can include creating the fractal shaped opening so that the fractal shaped opening is configured to approximate an open circuit. The slot tapered opening and fractal shaped opening can be created in a metal sheet that is deposited on a dialect material of a printed circuit board PCB .

Both the prior art impedance match shapes of a circle and the preferred embodiment impedance matching shape of a triangular Koch fractal have a sufficient perimeter to match to an open circuit. The perimeter length of the preferred impedance matching shape of is similar to the perimeter length of the prior art impedance matching shape shown in . Even though the perimeters are similar the outside diameter of the fractal shape of the preferred embodiment of is significantly less than the outside diameter of the prior art circle shape of . The smaller diameter means that less PCB area is needed to implement the preferred embodiment of the TSA shown in than the prior art TSA shown in . This means either the PCB of the preferred TSA can be smaller or more circuits may be implemented on the PCB with the preferred TSA than with the prior art TSA of . Using a fractal shaped stub can improve the TSA performance at lower frequencies. Additionally a triangular Koch fractal shaped stub provides a shunt resistance along the perimeter of the fractal shape to enable the stub to approximate an ideal open circuit over an extended bandwidth.

The Koch fractal of the preferred embodiment is a Koch fractal based on a triangle and is generally greater than a fourth order Koch fractal. illustrate the first through fifth orders of a Koch fractal based on a triangle. The first order shown in is a line segment . The second order shown in is generated by removing the middle third of the line segment and replacing it with two line segments in the form of a triangle to create four lines segments . The third order shown in is generated by performing the same operation on the four line segments of the second order fractal to create the 16 line segments to of the third order fractal. This iterative approach of creating a Koch fractal can be continued to create the fourth and fifth ordered fractals as shown in respectively and can be further continued to create higher order fractals than what is shown in .

A fractal can be created that is based on other shapes than a triangle. The middle third of a line segment can be replaced with other shapes rather than triangle shaped line segments. For example a square shape a trapezoidal shape or another type of shape can be used to replace the middle third of a line segment of a prior order fractal.

For simplicity illustrate creating a fractal starting from a line. However to create the relatively circular shaped impedance matching fractal shape shown in one would begin with an equilateral triangle and iteratively replace the middle third of the line segments with triangular shaped line segments as previously discussed. Rather than starting with an equilateral triangle the preferred embodiment can also be based on starting with an equilateral pentagon and iteratively replace the middle third of the line segments with triangular shaped line segments.

The tapered slot antenna transmits a signal fed into the slot or receives a signal at the slot . As previously mentioned the tapered opening is formed by gradually increasing the width of the tapered opening from a first end of the slot to an open end of the tapered opening . It is generally desirable to have the length L of the open end be greater than 2 where is the center frequency of a signal the TSA is to transmit. The impedance bandwidth and radiation patterns of the TSA are significantly affected by parameters such as length width and taper profile of the TSA .

The tapered opening may be other shapes than the tapered opening with straight sides shown in . The tapered opening can have constant linear and or exponential tapers. For example the tapered opening can have sides that are curved as expressed by exponential or tangential functions. The TSA can be a Vivaldi type of TSA with a corresponding Vivaldi shaped tapered opening . Alternatively the tapered opening can have sides that are made up of more than one straight line segment or a combination of straight line segments and curved line segments and so on.

The TSA shown in is capable of operating somewhere in a frequency bandwidth between of 50 MHz to 18 GHz. To achieve a wide bandwidth an impedance matching shape of a fractal is placed adjacent to the slot . This allows the tapered opening to act as a transformer taking the 377 ohm free space impedance down to about 50 ohms.

In operation the TSA can be fed e.g. excited to transmit signals in different ways as understood by those of ordinary skill in the art For example the slot can be excited using the center conductor of a coaxial cable to feed the slot a signal. Alternatively a micro strip line can feed the slot by extending over the slot by about a quarter of a wavelength. Alternatively the slot can be fed from a other feeds such as a coplanar waveguide CPW an air bridge ground coplanar waveguide GCPW a finite coplanar waveguide FCPW center strip a FCPW notch as well as other types of feeds.

When the TSA is fabricated on a PCB the dielectric material of the preferred embodiment is preferably a high dielectric constant. Thick dielectric substrates with low dielectric constants can also be used and may provide adequate efficiency and a wide bandwidth. However using thick substrates with low dielectric constants will increase the area of the PCB needed to fabricate the TSA as compared to using a high dielectric material. In other embodiments a variety of other dielectric constants with dielectric material of different thicknesses can be used based on different design parameters.

The impedance matching shape can overall be fractal shaped with six major lobes A F. In another configuration the preferred embodiment can have 10 major lobes however for drawing simplicity is drawn with six major lobes A F. The inner perimeter of the impedance matching shape defines the major lobes A F. The major lobes A F extend radially outward from the center O and are arranged in an oval or circular pattern as shown in . For example the diameters D and D shown in are of similar lengths which results in the shape that is circular as shown by circles C and C. However if diameters D and D have different lengths then the impedance matching shape would be more elliptical. In the preferred embodiment the major lobes A F are spaced equal circumferential distances from each other in the circular pattern. The outer circle C touches the tips A F ends of the six major lobes A F. The inner circle C touches bases A F of the major lobes A F and represents that the area within circle C is a circular completely open area void of metal.

Example methods may be better appreciated with reference to flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the illustrated methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from that shown and described. Moreover less than all the illustrated blocks may be required to implement an example methodology. Blocks may be combined or separated into multiple components. Furthermore additional and or alternative methodologies can employ additional not illustrated blocks.

A fractal shaped opening is created at in same metal sheet as the slot and the tapered opening. The fractal shaped opening may be in the shape of a Koch fractal and be based on a triangle. The fractal shaped opening is configured to approximate an open circuit to impedance match the slot. The fractal shaped opening is formed adjacent the second end of the slot. The fractal shape can have about six arms major lobes with several minor lobes.

In the foregoing description certain terms have been used for brevity clearness and understanding. No unnecessary limitations are to be implied therefrom beyond the requirement of the prior art because such terms are used for descriptive purposes and are intended to be broadly construed. Therefore the invention is not limited to the specific details the representative embodiments and illustrative examples shown and described. Thus this application is intended to embrace alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

Moreover the description and illustration of the invention is an example and the invention is not limited to the exact details shown or described. References to the preferred embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s so described may include a particular feature structure characteristic property element or limitation but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property element or limitation. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in the preferred embodiment does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may.

