---

title: System and method for managing power of a portable device
abstract: A method and system for managing power of a portable device is disclosed. The portable devices has a plurality device components that has controllable power settings. The device has a plurality of power profiles, each power profile referencing a list of the available device components that are configured for adequate power needs. Set of rules are then defined having a criterion for executing the plurality of power profiles, where the criterion is based on a device input. Once the rules and power profiles are created, the device inputs are monitored to determine if there is a match. If the criteria in the rules are matched, the corresponding power profile is executed to maximize battery life.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08386826&OS=08386826&RS=08386826
owner: Psion Inc.
number: 08386826
owner_city: Mississauga, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100423
---
The present invention relates to power management more specifically the present invention relates to managing power for a portable device.

It was not too long ago that cell phones became a common household item. In those days cell phones were mainly used for making phone calls and storing contact information. In the last few years the rapid advancement in mobile computing platforms gave birth to a new breed of phones namely smartphones . These phones pack many different features ranging from having the ability to browse the Internet to being able to play multiplayer games. The growth of features is not limited to consumer smartphones mobile devices for use in business environments have benefited from the advancement in mobile computing as compact and powerful handheld devices have replaced bulky equipments while providing more advanced features. Such features include for example Radio Frequency Identification RFID to manage inventory electronically Wi Fi to enable the exchange of information wirelessly and Bluetooth to provide the handheld users unobstructed movement. These mobile devices render businesses more efficient competitive and environmentally friendly.

With ever increasing demand for more advanced features in compact form power requirements for mobile devices have increased as well. However battery technologies have not kept pace with the power requirements of modern mobile devices. Thus mobile device manufacturers are looking for ways to conserve power. At first laptop manufacturers provided two modes of operation AC power and battery power. The first mode enabled all the components of the laptop to be fully functional when the laptop was plugged into a wall socket. The second mode significantly restricted the mode of operation of a laptop to maximize battery life when the laptop was not plugged into a wall socket.

More recently a consortium of software and hardware developers have developed a standard known as Advanced Configuration and Power Interface ACPI to provide an open standard for managing and configuring power of a device. This movement has allowed software and hardware developers to control the power states of each ACPI compliant hardware. For example in Microsoft Windows users are able to create different power profiles that suit different environment settings. Through these power profiles a user is able to vary the power requirement of a device in different settings. For example a user using a mobile device e.g. a laptop at home is typically plugged into a wall socket or is very close to a wall socket. Thus the user is less concerned about power optimization. However if the same user is on a bus commuting to work power optimization is a big concern since a wall socket is not available. In Windows to differentiate between these two environments the user is able to create different power profiles that vary the power usage of each components of the mobile device. By creating a profile for home and another for commute the user is able to vary the power requirements for each settings. However existing power management schemes rely on the user to recognize the different power needs and set them as required. Referring back to our example the user would have to manually set the power profiles to home when the user arrives at home and change to commute when the user leaves home. Currently there is no method of managing power profiles autonomously once specific parameters are defined. Therefore there is a need for a power management technique that is managed autonomously once specific parameters are set by the user.

According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for managing power of a portable device the portable device having a plurality of device components including a processor and memory each device component having a controllable power setting. The method includes creating a plurality of power profiles in the memory each power profile referencing the plurality of device components configuring the controllable power setting of each device component referenced in each power profile creating a rule having a criterion for executing the plurality of power profiles the criterion based on a device parameter configuring the rule for executing the plurality of power profiles monitoring the device parameter to determine if the criterion in the rule used to manage power of the portable device is matched and executing on the processor the plurality of power profiles if the criterion in the rule is matched.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for managing power of a portable device the portable device having a plurality of device components including a processor and a memory each device component having a controllable power setting. The system includes a power profile creator module for creating a plurality of power profiles and storing the plurality of power profiles in the memory each power profile referencing the plurality of device components a power profile configurator module for configuring the controllable power setting of each device component referenced in each power profile a rule creator module for creating a rule for executing the plurality of power profiles and storing the rule in the memory each rule having a criterion based on a device parameter a rule configurator module for configuring the rule in the memory a rule monitoring module for monitoring the device parameter to determine if the criterion in the rule used to manager power of the portable device is matched and a power profile executor module for executing one of the plurality of power profiles if the criterion in the rule is matched.

Referring to a portable device incorporating an embodiment of the present invention is shown. The portable device may include a display a keypad and battery . Optionally the portable device may include scanner and handle where necessary. The portable device may also include other device components not shown . For example the device may include networking protocols such as Wi Fi and Bluetooth telecommunication protocols such as GSM Global System for Mobile Communications and CDMA Code Division Multiple Access and other features such as GPS Global Positioning System and RFID Radio frequency Identification .

The portable device relies on battery to power all features embodied in the device. To prolong battery life the device has a system for managing the power of the portable device . Referring to a block diagram of the internal architecture of an embodiment of portable device analogous to portable device of is shown. The portable device includes a plurality of device components including a processor a memory and device component i.e. to component N i.e. N . The portable device also has at least one device parameter . For example the device parameter may be the location of the device provided by a device component such as a GPS. The portable device may include more than one device parameter i.e. to M . Coupled to these components is the power management system which includes a Power Profile Creator module a Power Profile Configurator module a Rule Creator module a Rule Configurator module a Rule Monitoring module and a Power Profile Executor module .

The Power Profile Creator module handles the creation of power profiles to be used by the power management system . Through module the user creates a plurality of power profiles suitable to different environments. For example the user may create power profiles suitable for different work environments as shown in . Once the power profiles are created and saved in memory the user then uses the Power Profile Configurator module to selectively add the device component s e.g. to N that requires its power setting to be adjusted depending on the different environment settings. An example is shown in and further described below.

The power management system further includes a Rule Creator module . This module handles the creation of rules to be used by the power management system in determining when the plurality of profiles created by the Power Profile Creator module should be executed. This determination is based on criteria criterion set through the Rule Configurator Module . Each rule references at least one criterion that is based on the device parameter s i.e. to M . For example a rule may be based on the location of the device. Thus the rule may have a criterion based on the location of the device which may be provided by a device component such as a GPS to determine which power profile would be suitable for that location. An exemplary set of rules are shown in and further described below.

With at least one rule in saved in memory the Rule Monitoring module monitors the device parameter s i.e. to M to determine if the criterion criteria in the rule s is matched. If a match is detected the Power Profile Executor module executes the corresponding power profile to control the plurality of device components which may be the processor the memory or any other components to N or a combination thereof.

Although in this particular embodiment the modules are shown as separate modules other embodiments of the invention may combine some of the modules into one. For example in another embodiment of the present invention the Power Profile Creator module and the Power Profile Configurator module may be the same module. In yet another embodiment of the present invention the Rule Creator module and the Rule Configurator module may be the same module. Alternatively a power profile manager may handle the functions of the Rule Monitoring module and the Power Profile Executor module .

The power management system may also include an external interface to allow each functions of the power management system to be controllable by an external entity. For example the external interface may be an application programming interface API which would allow an administrator or an external system e.g. third party application to control the power management system . In another embodiment the external interface may be a user interface.

Now referring to a plurality of power profiles is shown in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The portable device which is a commercial grade portable device has power profiles and to help manage power consumption during use. Each power profile in is tailored to different needs of a user depending on the work condition. In Warehouse Profile the user is in a warehouse where lighting conditions may be poor. Furthermore the user may require access to information located on his her computer or a remote database and he she may also require hands free access to the device since his her hands may be occupied. Thus the power settings laid out in Warehouse Profile may be appropriate. In Office Profile the user is presumably in front of the computer and thus limited interaction with the portable device is required. Thus the power settings laid out in Office Profile may be adequate. The user may also create two distinct delivery profiles as in Day time Delivery Profile and Night time Delivery Profile . Although in this particular embodiment each power profile contains identical device components a user is not restricted from varying the number of components referenced in each power profile. Once the profiles are created the device can choose the appropriate power profile accordingly.

Alternatively the user may wish to gradually power down the portable device when the device is inactive. Referring to three power profiles and are created. Each power profile builds on the previous one to selectively shut off unnecessary components ultimately suspending the device after 5 minutes of inactivity. Power management is an embodiment of the present invention where the switching between the plurality of power profiles and is based on a timer.

In another embodiment of the present invention the power management can be used in consumer devices to maximize power efficiency. shows a plurality of power profiles suitable for a user with a smartphone. The user may set up a Morning Drive Profile to facilitate the use of the portable device while driving. As the user pulls into the office the portable device activates the Office Profile to adjust to the lighting conditions of the office building and to take advantage of the wireless Internet connection in the office. During lunch the device switches to the Lunch Profile to facilitate hands free communication as the user enjoys his her lunch and to permit web browsing by maximing screen brightness. When it is time to drive home after work the device switches to the Drive Home Profile which is similar to the Morning Drive Profile except that the device adjusts to night conditions. shows an embodiment of the present invention where power profiles and of are selected based on the time of day.

Turning to an embodiment of the process of managing power of a portable device is shown. The process starts i.e. by requiring the user to create power profiles i.e. . The user creates a power profile and usually designates a specific name to the power profile. If not a default name can be assigned. The created power profile is then populated with device components i.e. such as a display e.g. a keypad e.g. a scanner e.g. and other internal device components. Each device component is configured to the desired power setting i.e. . For example the power profile may dictate that the display brightness is at 50 and the scanner is OFF. Once all the power profiles have been created and populated with device components that have their power settings configured the user proceeds to creating rules i.e. . The rules contain criteria or criterion that define the when where and what of the power management e.g. When is the profile switched Where is the profile switching required What profile should the device be in This is defined in block of . Once all the profiles and rules are created the power management system starts to monitor the device parameter s of the portable device i.e. . The device parameter s may consist of such parameter s as GPS coordinates IP subnets RFID tag data time of day date timer or docking cradle status. Where the monitored parameter s matches the criteria or criterion established in one of the rules i.e. the matched rule and the corresponding power profile is executed i.e. . The system then continues to monitor until another rule is matched. In another embodiment of the present invention the processes and may be carried out by a profile manager.

As described above where the power management system see provides an external interface the entire process in may be controllable by an external entity. For example the external interface may be an application programming interface that allows an administrator or an external system e.g. third party software to control the process .

Now referring to an example of rules that a user may create during the rules creation stage i.e. and is shown. In Rule of GPS Rules has a range defined by coordinates 1 and coordinates 2 that must be matched before the defined profile is executed. The device may include other ways to determine its location for example through RFID Wi Fi and docking mechanism which may be used to create rules such as those disclosed in and .

As a further example rules and are shown in that correspond to . Rule is a rule based on time of day corresponding to the power profiles and of . As shown the times reflect an approximation of when the user would be driving to work i.e. Rule when the user would be at the office i.e. Rule when the user would be at lunch i.e. Rule and when the user would be driving home i.e. Rule . Alternatively the power profiles and may be based on the location of the device and the time of day. By creating criteria that take into consideration several device inputs a more accurate set of rules may be created such as those exemplified in rule . For example rule of the Monday to Friday Rules considers not only the GPS location of the device but also the time of day to determine when the Morning Drive Profile should be executed. A similar exemplary rule implementation for power profiles and are shown in the Warehouse Scanner Rules of . further shows Inactivity Rules which is an exemplary set of rules corresponding to .

In this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.

It will be further understood that the terms comprises or comprising or both when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

One or more currently preferred embodiments have been described by way of example. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the art that a number of variations and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the claims.

