---

title: Predictive coding of documents in an electronic discovery system
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate to systems, methods, and computer program products for improved electronic discovery. More specifically, embodiments relate to computer program products for predictive and automated coding of identical or highly similar documents for the purpose of limiting the volume of documents requiring review and thereby increasing the overall efficiency of the document review process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504489&OS=08504489&RS=08504489
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08504489
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100324
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 164 276 entitled Electronic Discovery System filed Mar. 27 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In general embodiments of the invention relate to methods systems apparatus and computer program products for electronic discovery and more particularly for providing predictive coding of electronic discovery documents during document review.

Electronic discovery commonly referred to as e discovery refers to any process in which electronic data is sought located secured and searched with the intent of using it as evidence in a legal proceeding an audit a securities investigation a forensics investigation or the like. E discovery can be carried out offline on a particular computer or it can be accomplished in a network environment.

The nature of digital data makes it extremely well suited for investigation. In particular digital data can be electronically searched with ease whereas paper documents must be scrutinized manually. Furthermore digital data is difficult or impossible to completely destroy particularly if the data is stored in a network environment. This is because the data appears on multiple hard drives and because digital files even if deleted generally can be undeleted. In fact the only reliable means of destroying digital data is to physically destroy any and all hard drives where it is stored.

In the process of electronic discovery data of all types can serve as evidence. This can include text image calendar event data databases spreadsheets audio files multimedia files web sites and computer programs. Electronic mail i.e. e mail can be an especially valuable source of evidence in civil or criminal litigation because people are often less careful in these exchanges than in hard copy correspondence such as written memos or postal letters.

E discovery is an evolving field that goes far beyond mere technology. It gives rise to multiple issues many of which have yet to be resolved. For example identifying data required to satisfy a given discovery request locating the appropriate set of data that has been identified and retrieving the data once it has been identified and located all pose problems in and of themselves. This is especially evident if the data that is being identified located and retrieved comes from an evolving or disparate enterprise such as a corporation that has experienced mergers acquisitions downsizing and the like. Mergers and acquisitions mean that the technology infrastructure across the enterprise may vary at least in the interim. However e discovery must be able locate and retrieve data from these disparate technology infrastructure in a timely fashion sometimes within days of when the merger acquisition occurs.

In addition to identifying locating and retrieving digital data the most critical part of any electronic discovery is the preservation of data which involves maintaining an original source copy and storing it for preservation purposes or furthering processing. This too becomes a daunting task for the enterprise system that encompasses a myriad of different technology infrastructures and the like. Therefore a need exists to improve the identification location retrieval and preservation processes especially in instances in which the enterprise system includes disparate technology infrastructures and the like.

As previously noted e discovery as opposed as conventional discovery of printed materials provides for the ability to filter or search the data so as to reduce the volume of data to only that which is relevant to the request. Such searching is typically accomplished by determining a specific date range for the request providing key words relevant to the case and the like. Improvements in the area of searching are greatly in need to further add efficiency to the overall e discovery process.

Once data has been retrieved preserved and in some instances searched the electronic data may be reviewed by the requesting entry such as a law firm securities commission or the like. While large requests are generally suited for online review the manner in which the data is presented for review adds efficiency to the review process and ultimately drives the cost of the review process. Therefore improvements in the manner in which data is presented for review are also desirable as a means of increasing efficiency and reducing costs.

Lastly once the digital data has been reviewed data identified as relevant may need to be produced in a tangible format for further analysis or legal evidentiary purposes. The produced documents must be properly identified and include necessary redactions and confidentiality markings.

Up until now e discovery management has been conducted on a case by case basis meaning all tasking and workflow related to the e discovery is based at the case level. Such management does not allow for finer granularity in the management of a case or for links to exist between different cases for the purpose of leveraging the e discovery related to one case to another new or pre existing case. Therefore a need exists to improve the manner in which cases are managed and in particular how tasking and workflow are managed depending on case requirements and the like.

Specific problems associated with electronic discovery are related to the inefficiencies and the inaccuracies in the document review process. Document redundancy in the form of identical documents or documents that are highly similar leads to reviewers having to review and code the same or highly similar document numerous times. Such redundant reviewing and coding of documents unnecessarily increases review time. In addition when the same or highly similar document is reviewed by more than one reviewer the likelihood exists that the different reviewers will code the document differently. Such differences in coding the same or highly similar document provide for inaccuracies that question the overall reliability of the review process.

In addition to problems associated with the redundant review of documents another problem is perceived by document review assignments that are random in scope and thus require the reviewer to determine the context and or applicability of each and every document in the assignment in order to gauge the relevancy of the document and properly code the document. Such randomness or lack of focus in the document review process not only frustrates the review but adds to the overall review time.

Therefore a need exists to provide for efficiency and accuracy within the document review processing stage of an electronic discovery system. The desired methods apparatus and systems should provide for limiting the amount of document redundancy in the data to be reviewed by lessening or eliminating the occurrence of identical documents or highly similar documents. By eliminating document redundancy not only is the overall review time reduced but review reliability is increased by not subjecting the same or highly similar documents to multiple review by various different reviewers. In addition the desired method apparatus and system should provide for targeted document review assignments that are limited in terms of concepts or search terms thereby decreasing the time for review further because the documents in the assignment are conceptually related.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for electronic discovery and in particular provide for predictive automated coding of identical or highly similar documents for the purpose of limiting the volume of documents requiring review. In addition by coding identical or highly similar documents from the corpus of electronic data associated with a case the present invention adds reliability to the review process by lessening the likelihood of multiple reviewers reviewing the same document and coding it differently.

Other embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products that provide for targeted document review assignments by determining concept related data groupings within the overall corpus of data associated with a case and assembling the targeted document review assignments from the concept related data groupings. As such reviewers are presented with document review assignments that have highly related documents in terms of the concept or concepts covered in the documents. The review of such targeted assignments is expedited due to the relational aspect of the documents.

A method for predictive coding of electronic discovery documents provides embodiments of the present invention. The method includes receiving at a computing device a document coding input that assigns a review code to a first document associated with a case within an electronic discovery system. The review code may include a mark or a mark and a tag. The method further includes determining via a computing device processor that one or more second documents associated with the case are at least similar to the first document and assigning via a computing device processor the review code to the one or more second documents based on the determination.

In specific embodiments the method further includes removing via a computing device processor the one or more second documents from a plurality of pending review documents based on the assignment of the review code. In such embodiments the removing of the one or more second documents may occur in near real time or shortly thereafter to receiving the document coding input.

In other specific embodiment of the method determining further includes determining via the computing device processor that one or more second documents associated with the case are a same representation e.g. nearly identical of the first document. In such embodiments determining that the one or more second documents are the same representation may include determining via the computing device processor that the one or more second documents have a same hash mark as the first document.

In still further embodiments of the method determining includes providing via computing device processor probability analysis to determine the one or more second documents associated with the case are at least similar to the first document. In such embodiments providing probability analysis may further include providing via the computing device processor at least one of clustering technique analysis machine learning or Bayesian technique analysis to determine the one or more second documents associated with the case are at least similar to the first document. In other related embodiments of the method determining may include determining via the computing device that the one or more second documents include a predetermined threshold of words phrases or concepts included in the first document.

In still further embodiments the method includes providing a confidence indicator for the one or more second documents based on the determination wherein the confidence indicator indicates a level of similarity between the one or more second documents and the first document. For example the confidence indicator may a numeric or alpha score. In such embodiments assigning may further include assigning via the computing device processor the review code assigned to the first document to the one or more second documents based on the determination and the confidence indicator.

In specific embodiments of the method the received input codes the documents as privileged. In such embodiments determining may further include determining via the computing device processor that one or more third documents associated with other cases in the electronic discovery system are at least similar to the first document. In addition assigning may further include assigning via the computing device processor a privileged code to the one or more third documents based on the determination.

An apparatus for predictive coding provides other embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including at least one processor and a memory. The apparatus further includes a document coding application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to receive a document coding input that assigns a review code to a first document associated with a case. The apparatus further includes a predictive document coding assignment application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine that one or more second documents associated with the case are at least similar to the first document and assign the review code to the one or more second documents based on the determination.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the predictive document coding assignment application is further configured to remove the one or more second documents from a plurality of pending review documents based on the assignment of the review code. In such embodiments the removal of the one or more second documents may occur in near real time or shortly thereafter to the document coding application receiving the document coding input.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the predictive document coding assignment application is further configured to determine that one or more second documents associated with the case are a same representation e.g. nearly identical of the first document. In such embodiments the predictive document coding assignment application may be further configured to determine that the one or more second documents have a same hash mark as the first document.

In still further embodiments of the apparatus the predictive document coding assignment application is further configured to perform probability analysis to determine the one or more second documents associated with the case are at least similar to the first document. The probability analysis may include but is not limited to clustering technique analysis machine learning or Bayesian technique analysis. In other related embodiments the predictive document coding assignment application is further configured to determine that the one or more second documents include a predetermined threshold of words phrases and or concepts included in the first document.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the predictive document coding assignment application is further configured to determine a confidence indicator for the one or more second documents based on the determination wherein the confidence indicator indicates a level of similarity between the one or more second documents and the first document. In such embodiments the confidence level indicator may a numeric or alpha indicator score. In further such embodiments the predictive document coding assignment application may be further configured to assign the review code to the first document to the one or more second documents based on the determination and the confidence indicator.

In certain specific embodiments of the apparatus in which the received input code is privileged the predictive document coding assignment application may be further configured to determine that one or more third documents associated with other cases in the electronic discovery system are at least similar to the first document and assign a privileged code to the one or more third documents based on the determination.

A computer program product including a computer readable medium defines yet other embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a document coding input that assigns a review code to a first document associated with a case within an electronic discovery system. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to determine that one or more second documents associated with the case are at least similar to the first document. In addition the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to assign the review code assigned to the first document to the one or more second documents based on the determination.

A method for determining targeted document review assignments in an electronic discovery system defines yet further embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving at a computing device a plurality of predetermined concepts included within a corpus of electronic data associated with a case in the electronic discovery system. In accordance with specific embodiments the predetermined concepts may be defined as a final search term set. The method further includes determining via a computing device processor a plurality of data groupings for the corpus of electronic. Each of the data groupings is defined by inclusion of at least one of the predetermined concepts. The method further includes generating via a computing device processor a plurality of document review assignments based on the determined data groupings.

In specific embodiments of the method determining further includes implementing via the computing device processor conceptual clustering techniques to determine the plurality of data groupings for the corpus of electronic data.

In other specific embodiments of the method each of the generated assignments include at least a portion of one of the plurality of data groupings or each of the assignments include one or more of the plurality of data groupings.

In further specific embodiments of the method assigning is based on associated data groupings within the document review assignments. In further related embodiments assigning occurs such that two or more document review assignments that include a portion of a same segment are assigned to a same document reviewer.

In other specific embodiments of the invention generating further includes generating at the computing device the document review assignments wherein each assignment includes at least approximately 2 000 documents.

An apparatus for determining targeted document review assignments in an electronic discovery system provides for further embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including a memory and a processor. The apparatus further includes a targeted document review assignment application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to receive a plurality of predetermined concepts such as a final search term set and determine a plurality of data groupings for a corpus of electronic data. Each of the data groupings is defined by inclusion of at least one of the predetermined concepts in the data grouping. The application is further configured to generate a plurality of document review assignments based on the determined data groupings.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the targeted document review assignment application is further configured to implement conceptual clustering techniques to determine the plurality of data groupings for the corpus of electronic data.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the targeted document review assignment application is further configured to generate the plurality of document review assignments wherein each of assignments includes at least a portion of one of the plurality of data groupings and or each assignment is based on associated data groupings within the document review assignments.

In further embodiments of the apparatus the targeted document review assignment application is further configured to assign one or more of the plurality of document review assignments to each of the plurality of document reviewers such that two or more document review assignments that include a portion of a same segment are assigned to a same document reviewer.

In still further related embodiments of the apparatus the targeted document review assignment application is further configured to generate the document review assignments wherein each assignment includes at least approximately 2 000 documents.

A computer program product including a computer readable medium defines other specific embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a plurality of predetermined concepts included within a corpus of electronic data associated with a case in the electronic discovery system. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to determine a plurality of data groupings for the corpus of electronic data. Each of the data groupings is defined by inclusion of at least one of the predetermined concepts in the data grouping. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to generate a plurality of document review assignments based on the determined data groupings.

Thus further details are provided below for systems apparatus methods and computer program products for predictive and automated coding of identical or highly similar documents for the purpose of limiting the volume of documents requiring review and thereby increasing the overall efficiency of the document review process. Additional details are provided below for systems apparatus methods and computer program products that provide for targeted document review assignments by determining concept related data groupings within the overall corpus of data associated with a case and assembling the targeted document review assignments based on the concept related data groupings. As such reviewers are presented with document review assignments that have highly conceptually related documents which results in further efficiency in the review process.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As may be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system computer program product or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device or transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet. Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It may be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

Thus apparatus systems methods and computer program products are herein disclosed that provide for increased efficiency in the document review process of electronic discovery. Specific embodiment of the invention provide for predictive and automated coding of electronic discovery documents that are determined to be a same representation i.e. nearly identical or highly similar. Such predictive and automated coding of review documents limits the overall volume of documents requiring review thereby increasing efficiency. In addition by automatically coding documents that are the same representation and or highly similar the present invention adds reliability to the review process by lessening the likelihood of multiple reviewers reviewing the same document and coding it differently.

Other embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products that provide for targeted document review assignments. Targeted document review assignments result from determining concept related data groupings within the overall corpus of data associated with a case and generating the targeted document review assignments based on the concept related data groupings. As a result document reviewers are presented with assignments that are highly concept related adding further efficiency to the review process.

The memory of apparatus stores document coding application which is executable by processor and configured to receive a document coding input that assigns a review code to a first document associated with a case within an electronic discovery system. In specific embodiments of the invention the review code includes a mark. Examples of marks include but are not limited to relevant not relevant important not important privileged hot trash technical issue and the like. In other specific embodiments the review code may include a mark and a tag wherein the tag provides a subcategory classification of the corresponding mark.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes predictive document coding application which is executable by processor and includes document similarity evaluator and code assignor . Document similarity evaluator is configured to determine that one or more second documents associated with the case are at least similar to the first document . In specific embodiments of the invention the document similarity evaluator is configured to determine same representations i.e. identical or near identical of documents by comparing hash marks or the like. In other embodiments of the invention the document similarity evaluator is configured to determine highly similar documents by probability analysis such as clustering technique analysis machine learning and or Bayesian technique analysis and or the like. In such embodiments a predetermined threshold of words phrases and or concepts may be required to be present in the second document in order for it to be deemed highly similar to the first document .

Code assignor is configured to assign the same review code assigned to the first document to the one or more second documents based on the determination that the second documents are the same representation and or highly similar. In specific embodiments of the invention the code assignor is configured to automatically assign the same review code assigned to the first document to the one or more second documents based on the determination.

In specific embodiments the document coding application may be implemented by an electronic discovery associate such as a case analyst prior to assigning document review assignments to reviewers. In such embodiments the electronic discovery associate may review and code a small subset of the overall corpus of electronic data associated with the case. The predictive coding application is subsequently executed on the overall corpus of electronic data to determine and pre code documents that are the same representation i.e. identical or nearly identical and or highly similar. In such instances the documents that are determined to be the same representation and or highly similar may be pre coded with the same review code as the reviewed document and removed from the overall corpus of data prior to forming document review assignments.

In other embodiments of the invention the document coding application may be implemented by the document reviewer during the document review process. In such embodiments once a document coding input is received for a first document being reviewed the predictive coding application is executed on the documents assigned to the reviewer to determine and code documents that are the same representation and or highly similar. In such instances the documents that are determined to be the same representation and or highly similar may be coded with the same review code as the first document coding input and removed from the assigned documents.

In further such embodiments of the invention once the document coding input is received the predictive coding application may be executed on documents currently assigned and in some instance currently being reviewed by other reviewers to determine identical or highly similar documents in their respective assignments code the identical and or highly similar documents accordingly and remove the coded documents from their assigned documents.

In still further embodiments of the invention once the document coding input is received the predictive coding application may be executed on the yet unassigned remainder of the corpus of electronic data associated with the case to determine identical and or highly similar documents in the remainder of the corpus of electronic data code the identical and or highly similar documents accordingly.

It should also be noted that the document coding application may be executed by a primary document reviewer or a secondary document reviewer. In certain instances the secondary document reviewer is employed in addition to the primary document reviewer to provide verification confirmation of the initial coding of the document by the primary document reviewer. Thus in certain embodiments of the invention the predictive document coding application is executed after the secondary document reviewer makes the document coding input i.e. confirms the initial coding of the document by the initial reviewer. While in other embodiments of the invention in which a secondary document reviewer is not employed the predictive coding application is executed after the primary document reviewer makes the document coding input . In such embodiments the determination of identical or highly similar documents the coding of the identical or highly similar documents with the same code as the reviewed document and or the removal of the document from assigned documents and or the corpus of electronic data may occur in near real time in relation to receipt of the document coding input by the document coding application . Near real time is defined herein as the time required for data transmission and data processing to conduct the necessary functions needed to carry out the actions of determining the identical or highly similar documents and or coding the identical or highly similar documents and or removing the documents form the assigned documents and or the corpus of electronic data.

Referring to another high level schematic diagram is presented of an apparatus configured for targeted document review assignments in an electronic discovery system in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus which may comprise more than one computing device includes a computing platform having at least one processor and a memory . In specific embodiments of the invention the apparatus may take the form of a collection server as shown in and described in relation to . Further the apparatus shown in may be configured to include all or a portion of the functionality shown and described in .

The memory of apparatus stores targeted document review assignment application that includes concept based data grouping mechanism and document review assignment generator . Concept based data grouping mechanism is configured to receive a plurality of predetermined concepts e.g. search terms included a final or non final search term set and determine a plurality of data groupings for a corpus of electronic data such that each of the data groupings are defined by inclusion of at least one of the predetermined concepts . A corpus of electronic data is herein defined as the entire collection of electronic data associated with a case or matter or a majority portion i.e. greater than fifty percent of the entire collection of electronic data associated with a case.

The document review assignment generator is configured to generate a plurality of document review assignments that are based on the determined data groupings . For example in certain embodiments in which a data grouping is larger in terms of the number of documents or file size than the document review assignments an assignment may include a portion of a data grouping . In other words for data groupings that are larger in size than the assignments the data grouping will be spread out across multiple document review assignments. In other embodiments in which a data grouping is smaller in terms of the number of documents or file size than the document review assignments an assignment may include multiple data groupings . In other words for data groupings that are smaller in size than the assignments the document review assignments may include more than one data grouping . In addition since document review assignments may be configured such that each assignment has a finite number of documents for example 2 000 documents per assignment or the like it is conceivable that a document review assignment may in order to account for the finite number of documents include one or more data groupings in their entirety and a portion of another data grouping .

Referring to shown is a more detailed block diagram of apparatus such as for example collection server embodied within an electronic discovery enterprise system shown in according to embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus is configured to provide identification and bulk addition of custodians to cases matters within an e discovery system. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention. The apparatus may include one or more of any type of computerized device. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of computing device.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API that interfaces with any resident programs document coding application predictive coding application or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with document coding application predictive coding application or subcomponents or sub modules thereof.

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the apparatus as well as between the other devices in the electronic discovery system. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection.

As previously noted the memory of computing platform stores document coding application which is executable by processor and configured to receive a document coding input that assigns a review code to a first document associated with a case within an electronic discovery system. In specific embodiments of the invention the review code includes a mark while in other embodiments of the invention the review code includes a mark and a tag wherein the tag provides a subcategory classification of the corresponding mark .

The memory of apparatus additionally includes predictive document coding application which is executable by processor and includes document similarity evaluator code assignor and optionally document remover .

Document similarity evaluator is configured to determine that one or more second documents associated with the case are at least similar to the first document . In specific embodiments of the invention the document similarity evaluator is configured to include hash mark checker that is configured to check the hash mark such as an MD5 Message Digest algorithm 5 of first 24 and second documents to determine same representations i.e. identical of documents. In other embodiments of the invention the document similarity evaluator includes similarity probability analyzer that is configured to determine highly similar documents by probability analysis. Thus similarity probability analyzer may include clustering technique analysis machine learning and or Bayesian technique analysis and or a similar probability analysis each of which may be implemented individually or in combination. In such embodiments a predetermined threshold such as a word phrase threshold a concept threshold or the like may be required to be present in the second document in order for it to be deemed highly similar to the first document .

In addition in certain embodiments of the invention a confidence indicator may be determined for highly similar documents. In specific embodiments the confidence indicator may be a confidence score based on one or more probability analysis such as clustering technique analysis Bayesian technique analysis or the like. In specific embodiments the confidence indicator may need to reach or exceed a predetermined confidence threshold in order for a second document to be deemed highly similar to a first document for the purpose of automatically marking the second document with the same review code as the first document . In other embodiments the confidence indicator may be presented to an electronic discovery associate who then makes a determination as to whether the second document s reach a level of similarity with the first document in order to provide for the same review code .

Code assignor is configured to assign the same review code assigned to the first document to the one or more second documents based on the determination that the second documents are the same representation and or highly similar. In specific embodiments of the invention the code assignor is configured to automatically assign the same review code assigned to the first document to the one or more second documents based on the determination.

The predictive document coding application may additionally include document remover that is configured to remove the second documents from the pending review documents . As previously noted the pending review documents may be the entire corpus of documents associated with a case or a portion of the corpus of electronic data associated with a case such as a document review assignment currently being reviewed by a reviewer or requiring review by an assigned reviewer.

In specific embodiments of the invention in which the review code associated with the first document is a privileged mark the predictive document coding application may be applied across other pending cases in the electronic discovery system in which a corpus of collected electronic data exists or will exist. This is because documents that are marked as privileged in one case or matter are consistently privileged across all cases or matters in the electronic discovery system. Thus once a document is marked as privileged the predictive document coding application can be executed across all cases or matters in the electronic discovery system to determine identical or highly similar documents in other cases matters assign the privileged mark as the review code to all of the identical or highly similar documents in all the other cases matter and remove the documents from the pending review documents file of the related case matter.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for predictive coding of electronic discovery documents in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event a document coding input that assigns a review code to a first document is received. The first document is associated with a case matter within an electronic discovery system. In specific embodiments of the method the review code may include at least one mark or the review code may include at least one mark and a tag wherein a tag provides for a subcategory for a respective mark.

In further specific embodiments of the method the document coding input may be received from an electronic discovery associate such as a case analyst prior to assigning document review assignments to reviewers. In such embodiments the electronic discovery associate may review and code a small subset of the overall corpus of electronic data associated with the case and subsequently identical or highly similar documents are determined and pre coded from the overall corpus of electronic data.

In other specific embodiments of the method the document coding input may be received from a document reviewer during the document review process. In such embodiments once a document coding input is received identical or highly similar documents are determined and pre coded from the documents assigned to the reviewer.

In still further embodiments of the method the document coding input may be received by a primary document reviewer or a secondary document reviewer. In certain instances the secondary document reviewer is employed in addition to the primary document reviewer to provide verification confirmation of the initial coding of the document by the primary document reviewer. Thus in certain embodiments of the method the determination of identical and or highly similar documents is made after the secondary document reviewer makes the document coding input. While in other embodiments of the method in which a secondary document reviewer is not employed the determination of identical and or highly similar documents is made after the primary document reviewer makes the document coding input.

At Event one or more second documents associated with the case are determined to be at least similar to the first document. In specific embodiments the second documents are determined to be the same representation e.g. identical as the first document. In such embodiments a comparison of hash values may be undertaken to determine the same representation. In other embodiments of the method the second documents are determined to be highly similar by implementing probability analysis such as clustering techniques machine learning Bayesian techniques or the like. In further such embodiments predetermined thresholds of words phrases and or concepts may be required to be included in the second document in order for the second document to be deemed highly similar to the first document. Moreover in other embodiments determination of the one or more second documents may include determination of a confidence indicator which may serve to sum the probability analysis of multiple probability analysis techniques or the like.

At Event the review code assigned to the first document is assigned to the one or more second documents based on the determination that the second documents are similar to the first documents. In specific embodiments of the method the assignment of the review code is automatic based on the determination. In still further embodiments the assignment of the review code to the second documents occurs in near real time to the receipt of the document coding input. Additionally the method may include removing the second documents from either the corpus of electronic data in which review is outstanding or the document review assignment from which includes the first document or both.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for targeted document review assignments in an electronic discovery system. At Event a plurality of predetermined concepts associated with a case within an electronic discovery system is received. In specific embodiment of the invention the predetermined concepts are a search term set associated with the case.

At Event a plurality of data groupings are determined from a corpus of case related electronic data. Each of the data groupings are defined by inclusion of at least one of the predetermined concepts. In specific embodiments of the invention the data groupings are determined by implementing conceptual clustering techniques or some analytical technique that identifies data groupings based on predetermined concepts within a grouping.

At Event a plurality of document review assignments are generated based on the determined data groupings. In certain embodiments of the invention document review assignments include a finite number of documents for example approximately 2 000 documents or the like. In specific instances in which a data grouping is larger in terms of documents or file size than a document review assignment one or more document review assignments will include a portion of a data grouping i.e. multiple document review assignments will include the same data grouping. In other specific instances in which a data grouping is smaller in terms of documents or file size than a document review assignment document review assignments may include more than one data grouping. In addition in instances in which the document review assignments include a consistent finite number of documents a document review assignment may include one or more complete data groupings and a portion of another data grouping.

At optional Event the plurality of document review assignments are assigned to a plurality of document reviewers such that assigning of document review assignments is based on associated data groupings. In specific embodiments of the method two or more document review assignments that include a portion of the same grouping are assigned to a same document reviewer.

As a means of providing an overview of a composite enterprise wide electronic discovery system which may be implemented in conjunction with the computer monitoring of network status described above are herein provide and described in detail. It should be noted that the system shown and described in relation to are by way of example only and as such presently described embodiments of the invention may be embodied within other electronic discovery systems or only implement select portions of the electronic discovery system herein described.

As shown in the block diagram of the electronic discovery management server provides user interface management for via user interface . In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is a web server that can be accessed via a web browser. In one particular embodiment the electronic discovery management server is an intranet website server that may be accessed utilizing a web browser on a machine within the enterprise. Through the electronic discovery management server the user interface may be presented to a user for the purposes of managing the electronic discovery process and all processes described herein that are inherent thereto. For illustrative purposes it may be assumed herein that the primary user interacting with the user interface is an employee or contractor of the company who serves an electronic discovery management role and hereafter is referred to as the e discovery manager. As discussed in greater detail below the e discovery manager may utilize the user interface to manage cases custodians collections and collected data. It should be appreciated however that any individual could use the user interface to perform the manual functions herein attributed to the e discovery manager and indeed that an automated process could perform those functions as well.

Referring again to the electronic discovery management server is in communication with the database server and the collections server via the communication network . The database server as shown in the block diagram of is configured to provide database services for the electronic discovery management server including housing the Unified Directory custodian database which includes data relating to individual custodians the case database which includes data relating to particular cases and ongoing collections database which includes data relating to collections being undertaken by the collections server . Each of the foregoing databases within the database server is discussed in detail below. It should be understood that multiple database servers could be employed instead of a single database server and reference to a single database server is for illustrative and convenience purposes only. For example the Unified Directory could be stored in one database server and the ongoing collections data could be stored in another database server.

Regardless of the number of database servers employed it is an object of embodiments of the present invention that data relating to custodians and cases be stored in the database server independently. While custodian data in the Unified Directory and case data in the case database may be linked or correlated within the database server for example when custodians are assigned to particular cases custodians may be managed separately from cases. Therefore when a case is initialized and a custodian is assigned to the case information for that custodian such as data storage locations for that custodian is accessed by the electronic discovery management server in the Unified Directory in the database server and linked to the particular case rather than manually input by the e discovery manager into the case.

Furthermore in addition to separating but allowing linkage of custodian management and case management processes and as discussed further below data management processes relating to the collection of data from custodian storage locations during electronic discovery are also separated from case management and custodian management processes. In this regard the data collected from a particular custodian is stored separately from both the custodian information and any relevant case information as discussed below it is stored in long term network storage network but is linked to a custodian which is in turn linked to one or more cases. This is advantageous because in the event a particular custodian is assigned to multiple cases data collected from the custodian may be shared with the other case s to which the custodian is assigned. Therefore the various processes and components of the electronic discovery system may be categorized within one of case management custodian management or data management. And even though cases custodians and collected data may all be managed separately there are necessarily links between the various datastores to allow management of the overall electronic discovery process.

With regard to custodian management according to some embodiments of the present invention the Unified Directory custodian database houses information relating to all potential custodians within the enterprise and the locations where those custodians store data. The information stored in the Unified Directory may include for a particular custodian for example the custodian s name position human resources identifier a unique number for each employee of the enterprise employment location domain email addresses network user identification personal computer s name paths of network storage devices used by the custodian including Shared Drives and HomeSpaces work history related persons such as managers team members or subordinates and any other information that may be relevant to the discovery process. Since the human resources identifier is always unique for each custodian in some embodiments the Unified Directory may be organized around the human resources identifier. All of the information relating to how the Unified Directory is generated is a multi step process that utilizes multiple applications and methods of identifying relevant information.

For example the electronic discovery management server or the database server may interface with the computer databases of the human resources computer systems of the enterprise to copy the information from the human resources databases into the Unified Directory . In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server may also reach out to a network directory such as Windows Active Directory to identify network resources related to particular custodians and integrate this information into the custodian entries including the copied human resources information. Information for the Unified Directory may also be obtained from the managers of the information technology network i.e. those individuals responsible for setting up email accounts for custodians and managing the various file servers of the enterprise. Furthermore in addition to retrieving information in the manners described above in some embodiments information in the Unified Directory is generated through applications initialized and or deployed by the electronic discovery management server . In particular in some embodiments as shown in a profile scanning application and a mapping application are provided.

The profile scanning application may be deployed by the electronic discovery management server and is configured to crawl the communication network scan each of the enterprise personal computers and transmit to the database server identifying information about each computer such as computer name and IP address and a list of all profiles including demographics information or network user identification associated with each computer. According to different embodiments the profile scanning application may be run on the electronic discovery management server the collection server or another server in the communication network . In some embodiments the profile scanning application is further configured to identify and transmit to the database server the most recent date and time at which a particular profile was logged on to the machine. When information relating to a particular computer is received by the database server the database server uses the profile information which may include several user identifications to link the particular computer to the custodians in the Unified Directory associated with those user identifications. The database server may also record in each custodian s entry in the Unified Directory the last time the computer was accessed by the custodian according to the profile information transmitted by the profile scanning application . Thus the profile scanning application ultimately generates a list of personal computers used by each custodian and this list may be presented to the e discovery manager when a collection of a custodian s local machine s is initialized as discussed in detail below.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the mapping application is configured to crawl the communication network and examine the enterprise file servers residing on the communication network to locate and identify the path of any personal network storage area on each server. As used herein a personal network storage area is a network storage area associated with a single user who reads data from or writes data to it. Personal network storage areas may be in the form of network storage devices or folders or other resources within a network storage device and may be referred to hereafter for clarity purposes as HomeSpaces. According to different embodiments the mapping application may be run on the electronic discovery management server the collection server or another server in the communication network . In some embodiments the mapping application is a Windows service that is scheduled to execute through use of Windows Scheduled Task. As the mapping application crawls the communication network it is configured to examine each file server and transmit to the database server the path of any network storage area within the plurality of servers that it positively identifies as a HomeSpace. In some embodiments the mapping application is configured to explore the enterprise file servers by obtaining and reviewing the directories on each server and evaluating the paths of each network storage area therein including folders and other storage devices and resources.

With regard to identifying a particular network storage area as a HomeSpace according to some embodiments the mapping application is configured to utilize conventional naming techniques for paths in the communication network to identify those paths of network storage areas within the enterprise file servers that include an indicator based on the conventional naming techniques that the particular storage areas associated with those paths are accessed and used by only one user and are therefore HomeSpaces. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention each user of the communication network is assigned to at least one user identification and those user identifications are the indicators that the mapping application attempts to locate within paths when identifying HomeSpaces. In such embodiments it is the convention that the paths of HomeSpaces on the communication network include the user s user identification. On the other hand paths of shared network storage areas do not include user identifications. Therefore the mapping application may explore the directories of each server within the plurality of servers evaluate each path in turn and make a determination as to whether or not the path includes a user identification.

If it is determined that the path includes the designated indicator for example a user identification the mapping application is configured to positively identify the particular network storage area identified by that path as a HomeSpace and transmit to the database server the particular user identification and the path of the HomeSpace. When that information is received by the database server the database server uses the user identification to link the particular HomeSpace to the custodian in the Unified Directory associated with that user identification. In some embodiments the mapping application is also configured to recognize and transmit and the database server is configured to house an indication of the last time the HomeSpace was accessed by the particular user for example the last time any data was read from and or written to the HomeSpace. Additionally in some embodiments the mapping application is configured to recognize when multiple paths map to the same network storage area. The collection server compares paths for the same user to determine if duplicative entries exist. This advantageously enables avoidance of multiple collections of the same data. Thus the profile scanning application ultimately generates a list of HomeSpaces used by each custodian and this list may be presented to the e discovery manager when a collection of a custodian s HomeSpaces is initialized as discussed in detail below.

In addition to storing a list of personal computers and HomeSpaces used by a particular custodian which lists were generated by the profile scanning application and the mapping application respectively in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the database server is also configured to store a list of any shared network storage areas used by the custodian. As used herein a shared network storage area is a network storage area associated with multiple users who read data from and or write data to it. Shared network storage areas may also be in the form of network storage devices or folders or other resources within network storage devices and may be referred to hereafter for clarity purposes as Shared Drives. The user interface is configured to receive a path of a Shared Drive input by the e discovery manager and store the path in the Unified Directory in relation to one or more custodians human resources identifier s . More particularly in some embodiments once a particular user of the communication network is chosen for the collection process the e discovery manager may undertake to identify the particular shared network resources that that individual is using and eventually the paths associated with those shared network resources. This may be accomplished through conversations with the particular individual by utilizing data returned from the local collection application executed on collection server shown in the block diagram of deployed to the particular user s machine as discussed in detail below and or by utilizing a file browsing application executed on electronic discovery manager server as shown in .

According to some embodiments of the present invention the file browsing application is configured to be utilized by the e discovery manager through the user interface . The file browsing application gives the e discovery manager elevated authority within the communication network to access in a limited manner the enterprise file servers within the communication network . While the file browsing application may not allow access to the actual files stored on certain file servers it allows the e discovery manager to browse through the directories of the file servers locate files that have been accessed by the custodian and determine the size of the files. In accordance with some embodiments the e discovery manager may initially have a general idea of a particular file server within the enterprise file servers that the custodian has used in the past. For example the custodian may communicate to the e discovery manager a particular folder name and or drive name on which he she has stored files. Additionally in some embodiments the e discovery manager may have already undertaken a local collection process on the custodian s machine wherein the local collection application returned a list of the network resources that the user of that machine has used. In that event the e discovery manager may be aware of the particular drive referenced by the user. The e discovery manager may then employ the file browsing application to browse out to the particular drive mentioned scan the folders for any folder having a name resembling that name given by the user identify any particular files created by and or accessed by the user determine the size of such files and retrieve the path of any folder or Shared Drive including data belonging to the user.

The retrieved paths of the Shared Drives may then be added either manually or automatically to the Unified Directory in the database server . Thus the Unified Directory may store in connection with one custodian and in particular in relation to the custodian s human resources identifier a list of the personal computers HomeSpaces and Shared Drives associated with that custodian. Each of these locations is a potential source of data stored by the custodian and once an investigation or collection of a custodian is initiated the location information stored in the Unified Directory may be accessed to determine the particular storage locations that need to be addressed during the investigation collection. This is advantageous as it allows a completely automated investigation collection process rather than relying on the e discovery manager to manually input the targeted machines and file servers at the time of collection.

It should be noted that the Unified Directory may be regularly or continuously updated as new information is gathered using the applications described herein. More particularly the electronic discovery management server may be configured to automatically retrieve data from the human resources databases and Active Directory and any other relevant sources such as information technology directories or lists as well as deploy the profile scanning application and the mapping application at regularly scheduled intervals. Alternatively rather than periodically retrieving data from the various data sources such as the human resources databases the system may be configured such that the database server is continuously interfacing with the data sources such that the Unified Directory is updated in real time as the data within the data sources update. In either instance each of the feeds of information into the Unified Directory is regularly updated to ensure that the data in the Unified Directory is current.

In some embodiments the database server is configured such that all historical data relating to a custodian is stored in relation to that custodian s human resources identifier in the Unified Directory . Thus when the feeds of information into the Unified Directory are updated in the event data relating to the custodian has updated the database server is configured to store in the Unified Directory the new data and any relevant metadata including for example the time and date of the update as well as maintain a record of the old data so that it is still a part of the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . For example in the event the profile scanning application identifies a new personal computer associated with a custodian and one of the personal computers associated with the custodian previously is no longer identified the database server is configured to store in the Unified Directory the information for each computer as well as indications as to when the new computer was first identified and when the old computer was no longer identified. In this way the custodian profile within the Unified Database may include a history of the personal computers used by the custodian. Such information may be relevant at the time of investigation or collection of the custodian.

One feed of information into the Unified Directory which is particularly relevant to electronic discovery is employment status. According to some embodiments when the feed of information from the human resources databases to the Unified Directory includes an update as to employment status of a particular custodian the electronic discovery management server is configured to recognize the update and possibly perform particular functions in response. More specifically in the event it is recorded in the Unified Directory that the employment status of a particular custodian updates from active to terminated the electronic discovery management server is configured to determine whether the custodian is assigned to any case or matter and if so to transmit to the designated manager or contact for the case or matter an electronic communication notifying the manager of the terminated status and inquiring as to whether the manager would like the terminated custodian s data collected. In the event the manager responds in the affirmative the electronic discovery management server is configured to automatically initiate the various collection processes of the present invention. Therefore the custodian s data may be advantageously collected prior to any destruction or unavailability that could be caused by the termination. Alternatively in other embodiments the electronic discovery management server may not communicate with the manager and may automatically initiate collection upon recognizing an update in employment status.

With regard to case management processes according to some embodiments a case may be initialized by the e discovery manager utilizing the user interface . In this regard the e discovery manager may enter into the user interface certain information about a particular matter or case such as a case name and or number a short description of the matter case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the matter i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the matter rather than the process like the e discovery manager custodians etc. The electronic discovery management server is configured to store this information in the case database in the database server . The case database is configured to house this information such that all information relating to a particular matter or case is related within the case database and a user can use the user interface to view a profile of the matter or case including all the information.

Once the matter and or case has been initialized the e discovery manager may add custodians to the matter or case. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to add numerous custodians to a single matter or case at one time. In this regard the e discovery manager may use the user interface to enter in identifying information about the custodians. The identifying information for each custodian does not have to be of the same type. For example a name may be entered for one custodian an email address for another a network user identification for another and a human resources identifier for another. The user interface is configured to receive the identifying information in different input areas depending upon the type of identifying information being received. The electronic discovery management server is configured to use the input information to search the Unified Directory in the database server to determine which custodians are associated with the input information. In the case of a human resources identifier being entered only one custodian in the Unified Directory may be a match. On the other hand in the case of a name being entered multiple custodians may be a match.

The electronic discovery management server after searching the Unified Directory with the input identifying information is configured to present through the user interface a list of all custodians matching the input identifying information. In the event only one match was returned for a particular set of input identifying information the electronic discovery management server is configured to automatically select the custodian to be added to the case or matter. On the other hand in the event more than one match was located for a particular set of input identifying information then the multiple matches may be presented together to the e discovery manager through the user interface and marked so that the e discovery manager must review the multiple custodian profiles associated with the matches to determine the correct custodian that should be added to the case or matter. In doing so the e discovery manager may consider the other information in the profiles such as corporate title work location associated custodians etc. Such information can inform the e discovery manager as to whether the located custodian is the one intended. The e discovery manager may then select the correct custodian for addition to the case or matter and confirm that all custodians selected may be added to the case or matter. According to some embodiments adding a custodian to a case or matter involves linking correlating the custodian profile in the Unified Directory to the case or matter in the Case database .

According to some embodiments upon adding custodians to a matter the electronic discovery management server is configured to initiate the transmission of preservation notices and surveys to the custodians. In this regard preservation notices and surveys relevant to the particular case or matter are stored in or linked to the case profile in the case database . Transmission of the preservation notices and surveys to custodians added to the case may be automated for example there may be preset instructions within the case profile that cause the electronic discovery management server to transmit a particular preservation notice and survey at a particular date or time or upon a particular initiating event such as a custodian being added to the case or the e discovery manager may manually cause the preservation notices and surveys to be transmitted. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to transmit the preservation notices and surveys via a standard email function. The surveys may be tied to the preservation notices such that they are transmitted to custodians together and one survey may be tied to more than one preservation notice. When a custodian responds to a survey the survey response is received by the electronic discovery management server and stored in relation to the relevant custodian in the case profile in the case database . Furthermore the electronic discovery management server may be configured to store all or a portion of the data received in the survey response in the Unified Directory in the custodian s profile.

According to some embodiments each transmission of a preservation notice and survey to a custodian and each corresponding response is tracked in the relevant case profile in the case database . The electronic discovery management server may also be configured to transmit reminder notices if responses to the surveys are not received within a predefined period of time. The electronic discovery management server may also be configured to schedule reminder notices to be sent to custodians to periodically refresh the custodians memory of their duty to preserve files documents pertaining to the matter. In some embodiments once a preservation notice has been sent to a custodian the electronic discovery management server may undertake to prevent any reimaging or refreshing of the custodian s personal computer s by transmitting an alert of the preservation notice to the enterprise s information technology management group. In addition the survey responses received from custodians serve to inform the collection process. For example one survey may inquire as to what network storage devices the custodian uses when storing data. The answer that the custodian gives to the survey may inform the addition of Shared Drives to the custodian profile in the Unified Database that may be used later in collection.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the e discovery manager may utilize the user interface to add attachments notes tasks and search terms to a case or matter. In some embodiments the contacts managers for a case may also access the case profile in the case database using a web browser and may add attachments notes tasks and search terms to be stored therein. Thus the e discovery manager may not be the only entry with access to the case and case management applications of the electronic discovery management server . The subject matter of the attachments notes and tasks could be anything relevant to the case or matter. In some embodiments the tasks are tasks that particular custodians must complete and the electronic discovery management server is configured to transmit a notice to the custodians that that the task needs to be completed perhaps using standard email functions. With regard to attachments the e discovery manager or the contact manager of the case may upload relevant files to be attached to the case profile.

With regard to the search terms the e discovery manager or the case contacts or managers may add certain terms to the case profile to be applied when searching the collected data to locate data responsive or relevant to the underlying issues in the case. Storing the search terms within the case profile is advantageous as it creates a record of the searching that is to be undertaken with respect to the data and aids in organization of the data as discussed further below.

According to some embodiments of the present invention when a decision is made that it is time to collect from certain custodians in a matter the e discovery manager may use the user interface to release the custodians from the matter to the underlying case. This release triggers the commencement of collection of the custodians data. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to allow all custodians assigned to the matter to be released to the case at the same time. In addition in instances where the e discovery manager has previously created groups of custodians within the case the electronic discovery management server is configured to allow a group of custodians to be released from a matter to a case at the same time.

Once a custodian has been identified for collection whether manually by the e discovery manager or by being released from a matter to a case the electronic discovery system is configured to automatically collect the custodian s data using the location information stored in the Unified Directory . Therefore the electronic discovery management server accesses the custodian profile of the custodian to be collected in the Unified Directory and determines from the information stored therein the different locations of data storage for the particular custodian that must be collected. There are many different locations that the system can address including personal computers email accounts and network storage areas including HomeSpaces and Shared Drives.

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes at least one personal computer s associated with the custodian then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files on these machines. Therefore the electronic discovery management server may retrieve the relevant machine identifying information such as domain name IP address etc. and may initialize deployment of a local collection application running on collections server as shown in .

The local collection application is configured to be deployed from the collections server or another server within the network to any of the enterprise personal computers . Therefore for a particular custodian the local collection application is configured to utilize the machine identifying information supplied by the electronic discovery management server to be deployed to the identified custodian computer. According to one embodiment the local collection application is configured to be automatically installed on the target custodian s personal computer. The local collection application is further configured to generate a snapshot of the data residing on the local storage of the personal computer for example by using a commercially available application such as the Volume Shadow Copy Service store the snapshot in a storage area on the personal computer and transmit copies of the files included in the snapshot to the collections server . By transmitting the data from the snapshot of the data stored on the hard drive of the personal computer the local collection application advantageously allows the custodian to continue to use her machine without substantial interference from the local collection application and even interact with the data stored on the hard drive as the snapshot of the data is being transmitted to the collections server .

In addition to the functions described above the local collection application may also be configured to transmit to the database server a catalog of the files included in the snapshot to be stored in the ongoing collections database. This catalog may be referenced by the collections server in order to determine whether collection is complete and to resume interrupted collections at the point of interruption. Additionally in accordance with some embodiments the local collection application is configured to compile and transmit to the electronic discovery management server a list of network resources the user is using including for example network applications and file servers that the user has used or accessed. This list of resources may be stored in the database server in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . With regard to transmission of the files themselves according to one embodiment of the invention the local collection application is configured to compress hash and upload the files included in the snapshot to the collections server .

In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server may utilize a computer monitoring application to determine when to attempt a collection from a custodian s machine. The computer monitoring application is configured to monitor the network and determine which of the enterprise personal computers are online. Therefore in the event there is a custodian whose local machine needs to be collected the computer monitoring application is configured to determine when that machine joins the network i.e. when it appears to the computer monitoring application and inform the electronic discovery management server that it should initialize the local collection application immediately.

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes any paths for HomeSpaces or Shared Drives then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from these file servers by initializing the file server collection application running on collection server as shown in . The file server collection application is configured to access the file server located at the given path whether the file server is a HomeSpace or a Shared Drive copy the data residing on the file server and compress hash and transmit the copied data to the collections server . The file server collection application may be programmed with preset instructions that allow it to only copy files meeting certain criteria for example files that have certain file extensions. Alternatively the programmed instructions may prevent the file server collection application from copying files having certain file extensions or other attributes. Either of the foregoing is advantageous if the e discovery manager is not interested in copying executable files or source code for example. In some embodiments the file server collection application is also configured to generate a size estimate of the files residing on the targeted file server. In one embodiment the file server collection application may automatically begin the collection process copying and transmitting data if the size estimate falls below a predetermined threshold. In addition in some embodiments the file server collection application is configured to determine whether a particular folder that it is collecting from a file server includes more than a token amount of nearline files and in the event that the folder does include such nearline files choose to not collect such files so as to avoid overloading the server. Therefore according to different embodiments the file server collection application copies all or a portion of the files residing on a file server located at the path given in the released custodian s profile and transmits them to the collections server .

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes an email address for an email account on the enterprise email server then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from the enterprise email server by initializing the active email collection application running on collections server as shown in . In some embodiments the active email collection application is configured to access the particular Microsoft Exchange server within the enterprise email server on which the custodian s account resides which is known based on the information included in the Unified Directory copy all email located there including emails deleted by the custodian up to a predetermined period of time prior to the collection for example seven days prior to the collection and transmit the copied emails to the collections server .

Regardless of the storage resource location from which data is being collected or the particular type of data being collected the collections server is configured to store the data first while the collection is still ongoing in the short term staging drive until the particular collection is complete attach a barcode to the set of data resulting from the particular collection and then copy the data set to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection whether it was a local collection an active email collection a file server collection etc. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive .

Once the data has entered the long term storage area network it is not necessarily ready for review. Indeed it is likely that the data may need to be processed before it is searchable and suitable for review by investigators and attorneys. For example the files may be encrypted in the form in which they are collected and sent to the long term storage area network . Therefore according to some embodiments the data may be copied to the conversion services server where a series of decryption and standardization functions may be applied to it. After the data is decrypted and standardized it is returned to the long term storage area network and may remain there to be accessed for review purposes.

With reference now to a block diagram is provided that illustrates the electronic discovery management structure of the present invention according to some embodiments. As illustrated in certain processes described herein may be categorized within one of case management as represented by Block custodian management as represented by Block or data management as represented by Block . As described above the electronic discovery system is arranged such that cases custodians and data may be managed independent of one another. However there is still an element of the categorization of processes within the categories that is conceptual and it should be understood that certain processes may be correctly assigned to more than one category. Therefore while the architecture of the system allows separate management of custodians cases and data certain processes of the present invention may affect more than one of the foregoing.

The first process that falls within the case management category is creation of a matter or case as a framework for litigation support activities as shown in Block . As described above the e discovery manager may enter into the user interface certain information about a particular matter or case such as a case name and or number a short description of the matter case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the matter i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the matter rather than the process like the e discovery manager etc.

It is noted that custodian information is stored separately from the case information allowing for the same custodian in multiple cases. This provides for the electronic discovery system of the present invention to have scalability whereby evidence associated with one custodian may be used in multiple cases.

The electronic discovery management server stores this information in the case database in the database server . The case database houses this information such that all information relating to a particular matter or case is related within the case database and a user such as a manager or contact can use the user interface to view and edit a profile of the matter or case.

The next process within case management is the creation of preservation notices and surveys specific to the matter as shown in Block . In this regard the e discovery manager may through the user interface either generate a new preservation notices or surveys relevant to the particular case or matter to be stored in the case profile in the case database or alternatively link a preservation notice or survey already stored in the database server to the case profile of the specific case or matter at issue. Also within case management is the creation of search terms pertinent to the case as represented by Block . As described above the e discovery manager or a contact or manager for the case may use the user interface to input individual search terms or search term sets to be applied to the data harvested in the case. In some embodiments the search terms may be limited to be used with particular custodians and or with particular harvested data types. The search terms will be saved in the case database so that they may be readily applied to harvested data and used in connection with storing the resulting responsive data.

The processes of entering relevant attachments notes and updates to a particular case or matter also falls within the case management category as demonstrated by Blocks and . The e discovery manager or a case contact or manager may use the user interface to upload documents and enter notes and other relevant data including updates and reminders to be stored in the case profile of the case in the case database . Once these attachments notes and updates are added they may be referenced whenever a user views the case profile through the user interface . The cost estimation modules of the present invention are also processes that are categorized as case management processes as shown in Block . In this regard the electronic discovery management server utilizes a cost estimation application to determine the cost of harvesting and reviewing data based on a number of factors including for example number of custodians amount of harvested data data types etc. Finally case management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by block .

Moving now to custodian management certain processes falling within the category of custodian management are shown in Block . While the processes involving generation of the Unified Directory certainly could be categorized as custodian management the processes shown in include those processes involving management of custodians within the scope of a case or matter. In that regard the first process of custodian management included in is the addition of custodians to a case or matter as shown in Block . As described above the e discovery manager may use the user interface to link a custodian s profile from the Unified Directory to the particular case profile in the case database . Thus the custodian profile and case profile are correlated. The next processes within custodian management is the transmission of preservation notices and surveys to custodians as shown in Block and the presentation of the surveys to custodians as shown in Block . The electronic discovery management server uses the contact information in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory to transmit the preservation notice s and survey s stored in the case profile to the custodian. In some embodiments a standard email function is used so that the only information needed from the Unified Directory is the custodian s email address. When the custodian checks her email the survey will appear as a message therein and when she opens that message the survey will be presented to her. The survey may be configured such that when she fills it out the survey is automatically transmitted back to the database server for storage in the case profile and the custodian s profile.

Also falling within custodian management is the process of releasing custodians from a matter to a case as shown in Block . The e discovery manager uses the user interface to mark the custodian s profile so that the custodian is now activated for collection of data. This may occur within the case database since the custodian s profile is linked thereto. Once the custodian is released marked the electronic discovery management server may access the custodian s profile and initialize collection based on the various data storage locations identified in the profile. Therefore as represented by Block the electronic discovery management server may automatically determine the data types and locations of data to be harvested by accessing the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . Alternatively the e discovery manager may manually make the same determination by accessing and viewing the custodian s profile. Finally as with case management custodian management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by Block .

The last category is data management represented by Block . One major set of processes within data management are the processes relating to the harvesting of data as shown in Block . These processes include the collection of data from all the different storage areas of a particular custodian including the custodian s local storage on her personal computer s the custodian s network storage areas the custodian s email and any other areas as are described herein. All of the data in the various storage areas is copied and transmitted to the collections server as described in detail for each particular collection application or process. Upon reaching the collections server data resulting from a particular collection is temporarily stored in the short term staging drive until the collection is complete at which point it is stored in the long term storage area network in association with a specific identifying barcode. The foregoing process is represented by Block . The data may require decryption or standardization functions to be applied to it in order for it to be searchable and or otherwise usable so the next process that falls within data management is the copying of the data to the conversion services server for analysis and conversion as necessary as shown in Block . Once the data is converted it is returned to the long term storage area network to be used in review.

Also falling within data management is the association of particular data sets with particular sets of search terms stored in the case profile of the case database . In this regard certain search terms stored in the case profile are stored with the intention of being applied to certain types of data and or certain custodian s data. Alternatively certain search terms may be applied to all data collected for a specific case. In either instance the electronic discovery management server accesses the case profile determines the search terms to be applied and associates the search terms with the barcode of the appropriate data sets in long term storage. Thus the search terms will be applied to that data and the results will be generated and presented to reviewers for analysis. Finally as with the other management categories data management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by Block .

With reference to an exemplary process for managing a case is provided in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As represented by Block a case or matter is created by the e discovery manager and stored in the case database . Next custodians are added to the case as shown in Block by linking the custodian profiles of the Unified Directory to the case profile. Next as represented by Block the e discovery manager and or the case contact or manager adds search terms to be applied to data harvested for the case including instructions as to applying the search terms to particular data types or custodians. Block represents the determination that must be made as to whether there is a matter or just a case. If there is no matter because preservation notices are not required for example for an audit then the process will move straight to the initialization of data collection. On the other hand if there is matter rather than just a case then the creation of preservation notices is required as shown in Block .

The preservation notice as shown in Block is transmitted to the custodians added to the matter perhaps using email. As shown in Block a reminder notice module may be employed. As shown in Block the reminder notice module transmits periodic reminder notices to custodians. The notices may be sent over email and may remind custodians about the preservation notice and or remind custodians to fill out surveys. With regard to surveys in the event a survey is required or desired according to Block a survey is created. The survey may be saved in the case profile in the case database . As shown in Block it is possible to enable the survey to be attached to and transmitted with the preservation notices.

Next as shown in Block the e discovery manager may release custodians from the matter to the case which initialized collection of the custodian s data. As shown in Block the e discovery manager or the electronic discovery management server accesses the custodian profile determines the data types and location to be collected and initializes the applicable collection applications to go collect the data. Once the data has been collected and a unique barcode has been assigned to each dataset based on the particular custodian and storage location from which it originated as shown in Block the search terms previously stored in the case profile may be assigned to the dataset based on the input instructions regarding the search terms. These search terms may be applied to the dataset and the results saved to be presented to reviewers for analysis.

With reference to an exemplary process for managing a custodian is provided in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. First as represented by Block a custodian is added to a matter or case. In this regard the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory is linked to the relevant case or matter profile. In order to locate the custodian s profile a custodian search module may be employed as shown in Block . Therefore the e discovery manager may enter any identifying information about the custodian whether it is the custodian s name network user identification email address etc. The custodian search module will take the input information and search the Unified Directory for a match. If more than one match is obtained the user interface will present all matches and allow the e discovery manager to browse the associated profiles to determine the intended custodian. In this way the correct custodian is identified and the profile of that custodian is linked to the appropriate case or matter.

As represented by Block the electronic discovery management server may determine whether the particular custodian added is a member of the enterprise do not call list. In this regard there may be an indication in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory that the particular custodian should not be contacted regarding collections and an alternative contact should be used such as an administrative assistant of the custodian. Alternatively there may be a separate do not call list stored in the database server that must be accessed and searched to determine whether or not the custodian appears on that list. In either instance a determination is made as to whether or not the custodian should be directly contacted and in the event the custodian should not be directly contacted the contact information for the custodian s assistant or other stand in should be obtained. This information will be used later for transmitting preservation notices and surveys.

Next in accordance with Block a determination is made by the electronic discovery management server as to whether the custodian has been added to a matter or a case. If it is a case then the custodian is verified as shown in Block supplemental data may be added to the custodian profile in the Unified Directory as required as shown in Block and then the various collection applications are initialized by the electronic discovery management server for collection of the custodian s data as shown in Block . On the other hand if it is a matter then preservation notices are required. Therefore as shown in Block a preservation notice is sent via email to the custodian or custodian stand in. As shown in Block the custodian may then be inactivated from the case because for some reason data does not need to be collected from the custodian. In the future when it comes time to collect from the custodian the custodian will be reactivated as shown in Block .

After a preservation notice is sent a determination is made by the electronic discovery management server as to whether a survey is required as shown in Block . It should be noted that in alternate embodiments the decision on whether to send a survey may be made prior to sending the preservation notice. In such alternate embodiments if the survey is required it may become a component of the preservation notice and thus accessed simultaneously by the custodian. If a survey is required it is transmitted in conjunction with a preservation notice and the answers are collected by the electronic discovery management server and stored in the database server as shown in Block . Reminder notices for the preservation notices and surveys may also be transmitted to the custodian as shown in Block . Next once it is time to collect data the custodian is released from the matter to the case as shown in Block and the various collection applications are initialized by the electronic discovery management server for collection of the custodian s data as shown in Block . In this process the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory is accessed in order to determine the various locations where the custodian may have stored data. Finally as shown in Block the custodian s data is collected.

Referring to flow diagrams are presented of a method for harvest data from various data sources in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event the collection of data ensues and at Event the type of data is identified. Data Block signifies active email that is collected from an exchange system or the like. At Event the automated active email collection application is implemented to collect email from identified email address. As previously noted and in accordance with present embodiments of the invention if a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes an email address for an email account on the enterprise email server then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from the enterprise email server by initializing the active email collection application running on collections server . In some embodiments the active email collection application is configured to access the particular Microsoft Exchange server within the enterprise email server on which the custodian s account resides which is known based on the information included in the Unified Directory copy all email located there including emails deleted up to a designated prior period for example seven days prior to the collection and transmit the copied emails to the collections server . The email collection application is also capable of implementing bulk requests and for collecting email on a scheduled basis such as daily. The email collection application is additionally capable of being implementing enterprise wide and requires no server identifiers or the like to collect the active email. In this regard the email collection application serves to reduce security risk.

At Event a barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of email resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive . As such barcoding is performed without the need to execute the barcoding application on an exchange server and as such no human intervention is needed in the barcode process. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention one barcode may be assigned per custodian per data type and per event i.e. case matter etc. 

At Event the collected email data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets. When the search terms are applied a listing of the files and documents including those terms the search term hit list are presented to the reviewer and also stored in the database server . The reviewer may provide an indication of this to the electronic discovery management server which may then make a determination that other documents within the search term hit list are more likely to be responsive.

At Event the collected and barcoded active email data is copied to a processing drive for subsequent analysis. It should be noted that the nature of email data obviates the need to perform conversion and or decryption on the data set. At Event the active email data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data Block signifies other non exchange server based email such as email accessed through a client server collaborative application such as Lotus Notes or the like. At Event NSF files or any other file types associated with non exchange server based email is manually harvested from an enterprise grade email server having collaborative capabilities such as a Lotus Domino server or the like.

At Event a barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of non exchange server email resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive .

At Event the collected non exchange server email data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets. When the search terms are applied a listing of the files and documents including those terms the search term hit list are presented to the reviewer and also stored in the database server . The reviewer may provide an indication of this to the electronic discovery management server which may then make a determination that other documents within the search term hit list are more likely to be responsive.

At Event the NSF files or any other file types associated with non exchange server based email that may be encrypted is decrypted using a decryption application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The encryption of NSF files occurs at the user level and therefore only the user has the password necessary for decryption. The decryption application allows for decryption of the NSF file type data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption application finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the non exchange server email data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data Block signifies journaled data such as electronic commerce data stored on a repository for the purpose of regulation compliance to regulating bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC or the like. At Event criteria is extracted from input system and manually entered in a designated third party system for data retrieval.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of journaled data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded journaled data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files and the like.

At Event the journaled data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the journaled data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Referring to data block signifies data from a local Personal Computer PC such as enterprise PC . At Event the local collection application is implemented to collect data from designated PCs by taking a snapshot of the device s hard drive. According to one embodiment of the invention the local collection application may be autodeployed thus obviating the need for any manual entry by the e discovery manager or the like. In other embodiments of the invention the local collection application may be employed to collect data from network storage.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of local PC data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded local PC data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the local PC files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption application allows for decryption of the PC files data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption application finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the local PC data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the local PC data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies data from network storage such as a shared drive or HomeSpace. At Event the file server collection application is implemented to automatically collect data from shared drives and or HomeSpace. According to one embodiment of the invention the file server collection application may be autodeployed thus obviating the need for any manual entry by the e discovery manager or the like.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of network storage data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded network storage data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the network storage files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption application allows for decryption of the network storage data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption application finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the network storage data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the network storage data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies electronic data for forensics. At Event a forensic collector application such as EnCase may be executed on the devices of interest to collect data. According to one embodiment of the invention the forensic collector application may be automatically deployed on the device of interest without the knowledge of the device user. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a computer monitoring application may be implemented not shown in or that monitors the network to determine the addition or subtraction of computers to the network based on network status indicators such as ID s IP addresses returned from the network.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of forensic data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded forensic data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the forensic files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption application allows for decryption of the network storage data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption application finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the forensic data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the network storage data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies collaborative data such as data residing at discovery sites for example LiveLink or the like. At Event a discovery site collector application such as a LiveLink collector application may be executed on the devices of interest to collect data. According to one embodiment of the invention the discovery site collector preserves at least a portion of the discovery site database in the e discovery database including all files and all revisions of the files. In this regard the discovery site collector application queries against the database to define what files need to be retrieved then copies those files based on the result of the query. Metadata pertaining to the files is retained in the case management system tables. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the discovery site collector application collects the documents and the related metadata and uses the metadata to automatically rename the files.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of discovery site data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded discovery site data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the discovery site data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the discovery site data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Thus present embodiments herein disclosed provide for improvements in electronic discovery. Embodiments herein disclosed provide for an enterprise wide e discovery system that provides for data to be identified located retrieved preserved searched reviewed and produced in an efficient and cost effective manner across the entire enterprise system. In addition by structuring management of e discovery based on case matter custodian and data and providing for linkage between the same further efficiencies are realized in terms of identifying locating and retrieving data and leveraging results of previous e discoveries with current requests.

Specifically embodiments of the invention previously disclosed provide predictive and automated coding of identical or highly similar documents for the purpose of limiting the volume of documents requiring review and thereby increasing the overall efficiency of the document review process. Additional embodiments provide for targeted document review assignments that determine concept related data groupings within the overall corpus of data associated with a case and generate the targeted document review assignments based on the concept related data groupings. As such document reviewers are presented with assignments that have highly conceptually related documents which results in further efficiency in the review process.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other updates combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

