---

title: Computer assisted VOIP communication method and system
abstract: A computer assisted VoIP communication method and system. A remote server comprises a database in which is stored generic data of a plurality of displayed mobile phones. A personal computer in communication with the remote server comprises a local memory device in which is storable user-specific data of a known mobile phone, and an input device for selecting a desired mobile phone displayed in the remote website and for downloading the generic data associated with the selected phone to the memory device. Following generation of a virtual phone having a shape, key arrangement and functionality similar to those of the known mobile phone on the computer screen, a type and recipient of a session to be established are defined by virtually selecting a desired number and sequence of keys of the virtual phone or by entering commands. A session is established by a VoIP application residing on the computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08400966&OS=08400966&RS=08400966
owner: 
number: 08400966
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100520
---
The present invention relates to the field of communications. More particularly the invention relates to a method and system for simulating a cellular phone on a personal computer for the purpose of establishing a VoIP communications session.

Every year mobile phone users pay wireless providers billions of dollars for their services. By personalizing the mobile phone via contact lists pictures calendars and individual settings mobile providers have made the users become personally attached to these electronic devices.

Due to these factors of convenience familiarity and habit it has been shown that users are more likely to use their mobile phones even when given the choice of available free or low cost landline or voice over Internet Protocol VoIP communications. Indeed nearly 3 out of every 10 households in the United States are reliant or almost completely dependent on mobile phones and are willing to pay expensive mobile phone rates at times when the use of a mobile phone is unnecessary. As with using VoIP services just the task of manually adding the name and phone number of each contact into the address book is both tedious and time consuming and the VoIP interface application is generally not as personal or familiar to a user as his own mobile phone.

Another trend is that in recent years people have increasingly been spending more time using computers. Computers are readily accessible to users at various locations throughout the day such as at an office within one s home and at recreational facilities e.g. lounges bars and coffee shops.

It would therefore be desirable to combine the accessibility of computers and the familiarity and personalization of mobile phones in order to establish a VoIP communications session.

Skydeck San Mateo Calif. provides an application for accessing mobile phone data via a website. This application does not however generate images appearing similar to the mobile phone of the user thereby making use of this application less personal and attractive than an actual mobile phone. Moreover users of the Skydeck application need to interface with a fairly complex computer program which can be confusing and challenging to many mobile phone users.

DeviceAnywhere San Mateo Calif. provides a real time platform by which mobile phones can be remotely tested. A replica of a mobile phone is displayed and every input and output thereof is accessible via the Internet so that buttons can be remotely pressed liquid crystal displays LCD can be viewed and tones can be heard. The service for performing this function is relatively expensive.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system for establishing a computer assisted communications session.

It is an additional object of the present invention to provide a method and system for establishing a free or low cost communications session while interfacing with personalized settings and contact lists similar to those of the user s mobile phone.

The present invention provides a unique method for establishing a free or relatively inexpensive communications session while interfacing with personalized settings and contact lists similar to those of a known mobile phone.

As referred to herein a communication session includes any operation performed by a conventionally operating mobile phone to transmit communication information from an initiator to a recipient including but not limited to incoming outgoing calls text or file messaging transmissions and video chats. A session is established whether in real time or offline after the communication information has been transmitted.

The method comprises the steps of generating a virtual phone on a screen of a personal computer said virtual phone having a shape key arrangement and functionality substantially similar to those of a known mobile phone the terms mobile phone and actual phone are interchangeable virtually selecting a desired number and sequence of keys of said virtual phone or entering commands by means of an input device of said computer to said virtual phone that are needed to define a type and recipient of a session to be established and establishing said session by means of a voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application residing on said computer.

A set up module for remotely interfacing with a virtual phone generating server may be downloaded to the computer.

In one embodiment the step of generating a virtual phone on a screen of a personal computer is performed by receiving user specific mobile phone data USMPD associated with a mobile phone downloading generic mobile phone data GMPD associated with said mobile phone from a remote virtual phone generation database and suitably interfacing said USMPD with said GMPD by means of a set up module residing on the computer whereby to generate the virtual phone.

In one aspect the USMPD is synchronized received by a virtual phone generator website and downloaded to the set up module together with the GMPD.

In one aspect the USMPD of the virtual phone is updated when the mobile phone is detached from the computer or alternatively when the mobile phone is connected to the computer. The USMPD of the virtual phone is updated by virtually selecting a desired number and sequence of keys of the virtual phone or entering commands by means of the input device whereupon the USMPD of the mobile phone is updated

In one embodiment the step of generating a virtual phone on a screen of a personal computer is performed by accessing a set up module residing on the computer selecting from a list of virtual phones stored in a remote virtual phone generation database a virtual phone with which he is desirous to interface downloading GMPD associated with said selected virtual phone entering USMPD and suitably interfacing said entered USMPD with said downloaded GMPD by means of said set up module whereby to generate the virtual phone.

A user may also interact with menu settings and applications associated with the virtual phone by virtually selecting a desired number and sequence of keys of the virtual phone.

In one aspect a processor of the computer determines and displays an amount of savings that were realized relative to costs normally charged by a wireless service provider by establishing the session by means of the virtual phone.

The USMPD is selected from the group consisting of a mobile phone number a contact list mobile phone definitions and a hardware identifier.

The present invention is also directed to a system for establishing a free or relatively inexpensive communications session while interfacing with personalized settings and contact lists similar to those of a known mobile phone comprising a virtual phone generation VPG server comprising a database in which is stored GMPD associated with a hardware identifier of a plurality of mobile phones that are displayable in a corresponding VPG website and a personal computer in communication with said VPG server via a data network said computer comprising a local memory device in which is storable USMPD of a known mobile phone and an input device for selecting a desired mobile phone displayed in said VPG website and for downloading the GMPD associated with said selected phone to said memory device. A set up module for interfacing said USMPD and GMPD whereby to generate a virtual phone and a VoIP application for establishing a communication session by means of said generated virtual phone are also stored in said local memory and are executable by means of a processor of said computer. A desired number and sequence of keys of said generated virtual phone are virtually selectable or commands are enterable by means of said input device to said generated virtual phone in order to define a type and recipient of a session to be established.

In one embodiment the VPG server is also in data communication with a synchronization markup language SyncML server USMPD being synchronizable from the known mobile phone transmittable from said SyncML server to the VPG server and being downloadable together with the selectable GMPD to the memory device of the computer.

The present invention is a unique method for establishing a free or low cost communications session by means of a VoIP application including but not limited to incoming outgoing calls text messaging transmissions and video chats hereinafter a session while interfacing with personalized settings and contact lists similar to those of a user s mobile phone hereinafter the mobile phone . After the mobile phone is connected to a personal computer an image similar in shape and provided with a key arrangement corresponding to the relative position of the keys of the mobile phone is generated on the screen of the personal computer hereinafter a virtual phone . The session is initiated by sequentially selecting portions of the computer screen by means of a pointing device hereinafter virtually selecting corresponding to the keys of the mobile device that would normally be depressed if the mobile phone were disconnected from the personal computer hereinafter conventionally operating and communication packets were transmitted thereby via a wireless network. As a key of the mobile phone is virtually selected the tone emitted by the conventionally operating mobile phone is emitted by the personal computer. Similarly a menu appearing on the screen of the conventionally operating mobile phone when a predetermined number and sequence of keys are depressed will appear on the screen of the personal computer and within the boundaries of the screen of the virtual phone when a corresponding number and sequence of keys are virtually selected. The personal computer will transmit communication packets by means of the VoIP application in response to the menu option that was virtually selected. Thus a user may establish a free or low cost session while benefiting from the familiarity and personalization of a conventionally operating mobile phone.

Following receipt of the USMPD personal computer downloads via a data network e.g. the Internet generic mobile phone data GMPD associated with the hardware identifier of mobile phone from a database of a virtual phone generation VPG server. The GMPD for a plurality of mobile phones is stored in VPG database a working agreement generally having been established with the manufacturer of each mobile phone model type. As referred to herein generic mobile phone data is that data which is indicative of the configuration of a given mobile phone and of its keypad and of default functionality of the mobile phone. A thin client application for remotely accessing one or more applications of the VPG server and that does not include the bulk of the remote application s logic hereinafter a set up module which resides in memory M of personal computer and is executable by means of processor P receives the USMPD and GMPD and thereby generates a virtual phone with which the user interfaces when establishing a session.

In the image of a virtual phone is shown to be generated on the screen of a personal computer . A contact list is displayed within screen of virtual phone after a predetermined number and sequence of keys have been virtually selected. A session will be established by means of a VoIP application which resides in the memory of computer and is executable by the processor thereof after one of the contact people is virtually selected and then the SEND button is virtually selected. Alternatively or in addition an outgoing call may be placed or any other desired session may be established by depressing a selected number and sequence of keys of keypad connected to computer . The VoIP application may support any commercially available VoIP provider such as Skype Jajah and Lycos or alternatively may be an application dedicated to interface with a virtual phone.

In addition to establishing sessions a user may perform the same functions by interacting with the virtual phone and virtually selecting a corresponding predetermined number and sequence of keys as would be performed with a conventionally operating mobile phone. Consequently for example the contact lists or any other USMPD can be updated in step by computer initiated commands. The actual contact list of the mobile phone will also be updated when connected to the personal computer. Alternatively a user may interact with the virtual phone when the mobile phone is disconnected from the personal computer. In such a situation the USMPD will be updated when the mobile phone is once again connected to the personal computer. Alternatively for example a user may interact with an application provided with the virtual phone such as a media player.

In another embodiment of the invention the user is informed of the savings that were realized by establishing a session by means of the virtual phone to encourage the ongoing use thereof. After a session has been established the user may be requested to enter the cost per minute including currency type which is normally charged by his cellular service provider when the mobile phone is being conventionally operated. The savings calculator determines the amount of money that was saved by means of the virtual phone relative to a cellular or any other wireless network and then displays this sum in step .

In another embodiment of the invention as shown in a user may interface with a virtual phone that is different from his mobile phone. A new user desirous of establishing a virtual phone based communication session first registers with a VPG website in step whereupon a set up module is downloaded to his personal computer. After accessing the set up module in step for example by entering a username and password the user selects in step from a list of virtual phones stored in the VPG database a virtual phone with which he is desirous to interface. The GMPD of the selected virtual phone is then downloaded to the personal computer in step . The user then enters the USMPD from his actual mobile phone in step for example by virtually selecting a desired number and sequence of keys before generating a virtual phone in step and establishing a session. In this fashion mobile phone manufacturers may demonstrate and promote a mobile phone to potential customers.

The VPG website may be in data communication with a SyncML Synchronization Markup Language service website. When the actual phone is a SyncML enabled phone and is in communication with the data network in communication with the SyncML website the USMPD are automatically transmitted hereinafter synchronized to the SyncML website. The USMPD will be synchronized when a user updates selected USMPD within the memory of the actual phone The synchronized USMPD are thereafter receivable upon demand by the VPG website by means of a suitable API Application Programming Interface and are downloaded to the set up module in step together with the downloaded GMPD in order to generate the virtual phone in step .

By using system a user may establish a VoIP based communications session from personal computer to any selected mobile phone landline phone and personal computer. System provides a comparable low cost alternative to initiating a communications session without detracting from the experience of benefiting from personalized settings.

The user may select an identifying number which is visible to the recipient of the communication system and which may be identical to the phone number of actual phone . Thus the recipient will be able to identify the initiator of the communication session according to the original phone number of the actual phone without having to update his stored contact list even though the communications session was initiated by means of a virtual phone configured differently from the actual phone.

If so desired a user may channel a communications session transmitted by an initiator via a mobile landline or Internet communication network e.g. by using DID Direct Inward Dialing services to computer in order to benefit from the personalized settings of actual phone .

While some embodiments of the invention have been described by way of illustration it will be apparent that the invention can be carried out with many modifications variations and adaptations and with the use of numerous equivalents or alternative solutions that are within the scope of persons skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention or exceeding the scope of the claims.

