---

title: System and method for reducing latency time with cloud services
abstract: A system and method for reducing service latency includes dividing an information technology service for a customer into an infrastructure management service and a data management service. Data associated with the information technology service is stored in a backup memory. A set of infrastructure images related to the information technology service is stored at a cloud service provider. The infrastructure images are updated with software updates and hardware updates, as needed, and the data associated with the information technology service is updated through backup and restore mechanisms. The set of infrastructure images that have been updated with data with latest updates are started for recovery, continuity, testing, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09098456&OS=09098456&RS=09098456
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09098456
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100113
---
The present invention relates to cloud service computing environments and more particularly to systems and methods with reduced latency time in using cloud network services including continuity management testing and other services.

Business Continuity Management BCM aims at sustaining an organization s business operations without disruption. Disaster Recovery Planning DRP is a subset of BCM that focuses on preparing for and recovering from disasters that threaten to seriously affect information technology IT service availability and thereby to disrupt business continuity. IT Service Continuity Management ITSCM formalizes DRP from an IT Service Management ITSM perspective. The IT Infrastructure Library ITIL a widely recognized framework of ITSM best practices describes the ITSCM lifecycle stages Initiation Requirements and Strategy Implementation On Going Operation and Invocation.

ITSCM particularly in distributed systems is widely perceived as an expensive challenge for enterprise class IT operations. The daunting complexity of resource management makes labor cost a significant factor in pursuing continuity and resiliency of a business. Predominantly small and medium businesses SMB are known to opt out from ITSCM due to high cost to the business in labor hardware resources and the high price of services of external service providers. The medium and large enterprises who subscribe to ITSCM services on the other side fail to maintain currency of continuity plans and neglect frequent rehearsals due to high costs involved and potentially negative influences of rehearsals on production services. This failure leaves enterprises poorly prepared and jeopardizes the chances of rapid recovery in the event of a real disaster.

Bare Metal Recovery allows backing up a computer system from and restoring it to a physical infrastructure. Flash Archive is a utility to clone and secure a computer system to disk or tape volumes. Hewlett Packard UX provides Ignite UX a utility to clone and secure a computer system to network disk or tape volumes. IBM AIX offers mksysb savevg and other utilities to clone and secure a computer system to network disk or tape volumes. Linux based Intel systems can use live backup mechanisms on the running system such as file system snapshots based on logical representations of the data using the Logical Volume Manager LVM . As an alternative to live backups the backups can also be performed with support of the alternate boot method i.e. a backup of the whole image requires rebooting the system. Windows based Intel systems support similar alternate boot backup and restore mechanisms.

All Bare Metal Recovery techniques have a significant disadvantage they require a similar physical infrastructure to recover on. This requirement can be fulfilled by setting up stand by redundant physical infrastructure on a recovery site. Such a redundant site is usually provided as a service by an ITSCM service provider and comes with a high price tag. One can further differentiate between cold warm hot and shared redundancy. Cold redundancy is based on an active passive scenario with replicated hardware that must be set up and configured before it is usable. Warm redundancy is based on an active passive scenario with pre configured replicated hardware that must be manually brought into the system whereas hot redundancy uses automated failover mechanisms in an active active scenario. Shared redundancy relies on the simultaneous use of the production hardware and the replicated hardware.

Virtualization technology can be used to combine the recovery of computer systems with server consolidation i.e. recovering physical servers on Virtual Machines VM that operate on a smaller pool of physical infrastructure resources. Furthermore VM live migration and replication offers approaches to automate availability planning and ITSCM by moving workloads without service disruption. Mirage proposes an approach to improve inventory control of VM disk images and fight image sprawl. One important idea of Mirage is to enrich VM images with metadata in a manifest that allows the separation of the storage of a VM and operations on it such as search and update without having to start the VM.

However these solutions introduce hypervisor dependencies and thereby might lead the customer into a technology lock in situation. Although efforts are made to enhance hypervisor interoperability such as the Open Virtualization Format it is unclear how these standards can be effectively incorporated into higher level business processes.

Recovery to virtual infrastructure can reduce the up front cost of redundant physical hardware. However the cost savings are limited and stand by redundant hardware must still be provided by the customer or by an ITSCM service provider.

Cloud Computing provisions Internet scale services which are mainly characterized by three properties they provide means for on demand mobilization of infrastructure resources they exhibit the illusion of infinite amounts of resources being available and they implement the idea of utility computing. The interest in cloud computing has been fueled by innovative Web service offerings. Customers face a number of challenges when outsourcing systems into the cloud . For example building secure virtualized networking solutions to complement simple cloud services to design more complex enterprise services. Other challenges come from the before mentioned hypervisor interoperability problems. For example VMs created with VMware cannot be brought into a system which uses VMs based on the Xen hypervisor.

A system and method for reducing service latency includes dividing an information technology service for a customer into an infrastructure management service and a data management service. Data associated with the information technology service is stored in a backup memory. A set of infrastructure images related to the information technology service is stored at a cloud service provider. The infrastructure images are updated with software updates and hardware updates as needed and the data associated with the information technology service is updated through backup and restore mechanisms. The set of infrastructure images that have been updated with data with latest updates are started for recovery continuity testing etc.

A system for reducing service latency includes an information technology service for a customer being divided into an infrastructure management service and a data management service. A backup memory for storing data is associated with the information technology service. The data in the backup memory is updated through backup and restore mechanisms. A set of infrastructure images is related to the information technology service maintained at a cloud service provider. The infrastructure images are updated with software updates and hardware updates as needed. A service manager is configured to start the set of infrastructure images that have been updated with data with latest updates upon an occurrence of a triggering event.

These and other features and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The present principles reduce latency time when employing cloud services. In one illustrative embodiment information technology IT Service Continuity Management ITSCM is described that delivers the recovery of IT services in the event of a disaster. In accordance with particularly useful embodiments cloud computing offers a model for dynamic scalable infrastructure resource allocation on a pay per use basis. These attributes promise to bring cost efficiency to ITSCM invocation and operation processes that only in the rare event of a rehearsal or an actual disaster need to allocate infrastructure resources. Web Service Business Process Execution Language BPEL is illustratively employed to implement standardized testable and executable ITSCM processes. The suggested solution is described and evaluated against collected data from manual recovery processes.

The following approaches deliver ITSCM services orchestrate cloud services with people services and supporting services to design standardized testable and executable business processes. By using widely adopted Web technologies the present inventors design and implement these processes for On Going Operation and Invocation stages of an ITSCM lifecycle. The present embodiments focus on data and systems recovery which are the core objectives of any Disaster Recovery Plan DRP however other applications may find utility within the scope of the present disclosure.

In systems that employ cloud services stored images get outdated. So before the image can be used with a complex cloud service the image needs to be updated. In accordance with the present principles the image is replicated restore data every time a backup is created then lag time to utilization is minimum in this case because the image is kept up to date. There is a lag time between instantiation of the image and its availability for use that in some scenarios forces a user to use an alternative method.

One approach assists ITSCM customers and service providers to develop and maintain processes that give appropriate support to service recovery teams in the event of a disaster. Surveys of a large ITSCM service provider were analyzed. The provider had resources comprising a large variety of computing systems ranging from personal computers to clusters of servers and up to mainframe computers. This infrastructure supported services to a large scale of customer contracts. ITSCM services may be defined by two metrics that are negotiated in a contract between customer and ITSCM service provider Recovery Point Objective RPO and Recovery Time Objective RTO . RPO corresponds to the amount of business data that could be lost in a worst case disaster. RTO defines how soon the customer services must be operational again after a disaster took place. The service provider offers a large variety of services with RTO ranging from minutes to days. The cost of the provided services and subsequently their price grows as RTO decreases. The substantial increase in service cost when minimizing RTO is due to a need to inquire and employ new technologies or maintaining dedicated infrastructure.

Two significant challenges for ITSCM may be identified as follows 1 Cost is a primary barrier for adoption of ITSCM in particular for small to medium business SMBs . The present approach minimizes cost by using cloud resources and limiting payable time through a pay per use model for infrastructure resource utilization. 2 The complexity of the ITSCM lifecycle and lack of internal skills was another large challenge for the customers. It motivated the need for automation of ITSCM using Web standards.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of foams including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the FIGS. illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

DEFINITIONS AND ASSUMPTIONS We define the object of ITSCM as an instance of an IT service that includes a Business Service Configuration Item BSCI and Service Business Data SBD . The BSCI is an instantiation of the service definition and includes information on the configuration elements for supporting this service. The BSCI includes configurations of computer systems including software installations operating system configurations middleware configurations and networking. BSCIs may be organized in a dependency tree topology that may be stored in the customer s Configuration Management Database CMDB which we will call Source CMDB. We define SBD as valuable business related information that is stored in the computer systems data stores such as databases and file systems. Similarly the virtual infrastructure resources of the cloud service provider are described in a different CMDB which we call Target CMDB.

For our purposes we assume that the cloud service provider has capabilities to replicate the customer s service i.e. has assets that allow a meaningful mapping between Configuration Items CI in Source CMDB and Target CMDB. ITSCM services rely on existing mechanisms to replicate the customer s services for backup and recovery among other things. We refer to the clone of an IT service as a service replica. The service replica s underlying technology can differ from the original IT service s technology e.g. a computer system can have a different IP address or be based on different architecture. However the service replica provides the same service from a user s point of view. Furthermore SBD is secured by backup and restore agents backup agents for short that are installed on the customer systems as well as on the service replica systems. The backup and restore actions performed by the backup agents are coordinated by a master backup agent.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent the same or similar elements and initially to an ITSCM system architecture and base services are illustratively shown. An ITSCM solution for a cross organizational collaboration is implemented between a customer cloud service provider and ITSCM service provider . The cloud service provider includes a compute cloud . The compute cloud includes any number of server devices and server configuration instances. A database or storage includes server images which are employed to provide customized operation services to the customer . The customer maintains a configuration management module which includes a configuration management database CMDB . CMDB includes current configuration items CIs of the infrastructure that supports the customer s IT services. The ITSCM service provider maintains a similar configuration management module which includes a CMDB with CIs of the cloud service provider s virtual machine VM images that are used in the event of a disaster or other event to replicate the customer s services by pushing updates from the customer. The solution utilizes a CMDBf protocol to facilitate collaboration between customer and service provider in Configuration Management and .

A mapping between customer and provider Configuration Management systems and is established at the time of ITSCM transition to On Going Operations and is maintained by the service provider .

It should be understood that the example described herein for continuity management e.g. a data recovery service is merely illustrative and that the present principles are applicable to any customer service to be employed using a cloud service. For example the present embodiments include anything that assumes a system is running in a customer s enterprise non cloud environment. Such applications may include testing scenarios e.g. where a development system is in hardware and every time a change is made to the development system the changes are synchronized to a cloud for testing . Another scenario may include expanding capacity of a service on demand e.g. a service which is running somewhere on hardware or another system and the service ensures that if the usage of the customer s service suddenly increases then a replica of the service in the cloud configured accordingly permits redirection as needed of some of the requests to the replica of the service. The replica needs to be updated to ensure proper service and reduce latency.

A virtual machine VM image is a container without information on an underlying implementation hardware or hypervisor stored as a file. A VM instance is a running instance of this container and it already contains information about location etc. IP name etc. .

A disaster recovery plan DRP is developed during an Implementation stage of the ITSCM lifecycle. Among other information the plan includes a definition of the recovery solution for each IT service of the customer . Executable Business Process Execution Language e.g. WS BPEL 2.0 or BPEL for short processes and needed basic services are set up prior to transitioning to On Going Operations. Using BPEL for orchestrating grid services provides more flexible workflows than hard coded software implementations.

Service Catalogue ITSCM services utilize basic cloud services supporting services and people services all of which are exposed through an ITSCM service provider s Service Catalogue. Supporting services are used for Business Service Configuration Item BSCI and Service Business Data SBD backup verification and recovery. People services are included to account for manual tasks such as approval actions manual configuration and tune up tasks.

An information technology service for a customer is split into an infrastructure management service e.g. service provider and a data management service e.g. backup service . Data associated with the information technology service is stored in a backup memory which may be stored at the cloud service provider . A set of infrastructure images related to the information technology service are stored at the cloud service provider . The infrastructure images are updated with software updates and hardware updates as needed and the data associated with the information technology service are updated through backup and restore mechanisms. Data in the backup memory may be pushed to a target instance stored at the cloud service provider. Upon triggering the set of infrastructure images that have been updated with data with latest updates are started. Updates to the set of infrastructure images are pushed from the customer to an infrastructure management service provider . A mapping between configuration management of the customer and the cloud service provider is established such that the infrastructure management service provider is sensitive to updates for the set of infrastructure images. The customer and the infrastructure management service provider employ resource management workflows that employ cloud services and the resource management workflows are preferably independent of the cloud service provider. In this way data and or instances can be restored on the same system or a different system and the type of systems employed at the cloud service provider are independent of the systems where the services are provided. Access to the data is managed to limit access by service providers and maintain the data securely.

1. Cloud Services Cloud services are infrastructure services Infrastructure as a Service or IaaS that perform the allocation and deallocation of VMs. Cloud services provide scalable on demand access to infrastructure resources. The cloud service providers offer Web service interfaces in the form of e.g. WSDL documents to interact with their services. We create simple BPEL activities that invoke these Web services to manage allocate and de allocate infrastructure resources.

2. Supporting Services Supporting services provide for SBD backup and restore capabilities and BSCI replication capabilities e.g. Backup Service . The Backup Service is controlled by the customer and includes the deployment and coordination of backup agents e.g. a backup manage on the individual production systems to be protected. The Backup Service relies on the deployment of a Source CMDB that maintains currency of the customer s BSCIs. Moreover the Backup Service has access to the target CMDB where backup execution scripts and information on registered backup images is stored. The Backup Service includes one more local back storage devices . In addition to the Backup Service a Verification Service or Access Management can be deployed to control the integrity and consistency of SBD backups and BSCI replications. The backup manager may interface with Access Management which may include an authentication and authorization storage to exchange security keys e.g. SSH keys or employ other security measures.

The ITSCM service provider implements a Recovery Service that the customer invokes in the event of a disaster. The Recovery Service can create instances from backup images and control them through cloud service provider application programming interfaces APIs but has no credentials to log into the VM instances. The private SSH keys that are needed for this purpose are stored in the customer Access Management databases . The customer can be assured that the ITSCM service provider cannot access his SBD e.g. in CMDB or backup store . A recovery manager is an agent or API capable of interacting with the cloud service provider to obtain server images to create a new instance from the latest target image.

3. People Services People are an important part of a successful enforcement of a Disaster Recovery Plan. All decisions that are made and all actions taken within the course of ITSCM have an impact on business units that depend on IT as a supporting service. Risk precaution and compliance regulations need management to make informed decisions and give approval for certain actions. Given this human tasks are included in our standardized BPEL process as people services using known standards such as WS HumanTask and BPEL4People.

BPEL Process Implementation We create a set of BPEL activities that reflect main capabilities suggested with the present approach. We illustratively present BPEL implementations of single system Backup and Recovery processes using IBM WebSphere . We concentrate on key information that is passed to the processes and that is used for cloud service invocation. The implementation was realized with cloud services provided by IBM s internal research cloud RC. The BPEL activities that invoke the corresponding RC Web services can be categorized as follows.

Reporting and monitoring can be implemented through the describe activities while image and instance administration tasks are performed with support of the other activities. Within the scope of the present embodiments we focus on VM instance based activities. This approach is similar to traditional warm redundancy in that we assume that pre configured systems already exist.

The Backup BPEL process is triggered by a service request from the Backup Service . A Receive Backup Request activity has input parameters specifying access to the customer s local backup storage as well as TargetImageID and TargetImageSshKeyName. For example 

The TargetImageID is used to determine the VM image that should be instantiated. The TargetSshKeyName specifies a private SSH key that the customer controls in storage the corresponding public key is deployed with the instance and enables the customer to log into the VM instance. For example 

When the instantiation is completed the instance parameters Hostname and IpAddress are polled. Appropriate backup execution scripts are then retrieved from the ITSCM service provider s Target CMDB and invoked through the customer s Backup Service . The customer s firewall allows the establishment of an encrypted data transfer connection between backup agents installed on the customer s production systems and backup agents deployed with the VM instances. When the data transfer is completed the instance is saved to an image that resides on stable storage at the cloud service provider . The instance is deleted and a report is sent back to the service requestor.

The Recovery BPEL process is triggered by a service request from the Recovery Service . A Receive Recovery Request activity has input parameters that specify the latest backup image with TargetImageID. For example 

An instance is created from the image. The information necessary to access the instance Hostname IpAddress and TargetImageSshKeyName are reported back to the service requestor.

Fault handling should be introduced to account for alternative paths of the BPEL process such as failure to start an instance from an image. More sophisticated authentication and authorization procedures can be implemented with support of the customer s Access Management systems .

Referring to a ITSCM lifecycle is shown for a High Level ITSCM Process. We focus on the delivery of ITSCM and more specifically on two stages in the ITSCM lifecycle On going Operations in block and Invocation in block . A resumption process is triggered when the business is ready to resume its normal IT operations. The process resembles the recovery process except that the replication mechanisms and data flows are set up in the reverse direction i.e. from the cloud services to the new production site.

In particular focus is on such critical activities as maintenance of currency and execution of DRPs. These activities are in an immediate need of automation due to reasons such as lack of focus on ITSCM procedures during On Going Operations by a customer s personnel and difficulty in locating such personnel during Invocation . IT services are replicated in the cloud . The BSCI replication method is used to recover the BSCI information of a service whereas backup agents are used to recover the SBD. Both recovery activities result in a backup service replica i.e. a backup VM image which is hosted in the cloud . In addition to blocks and a customer controls a business continuity strategy and a business continuity plan . The strategy depends on the type of business importance priority criteria cost etc. The plan is the way in which the customer desires the strategy to be carried out. In block an initiation of the process is begun. This includes determining policies scope of the project etc. In block requirements and strategy are outlined based upon customer needs and the strategy set forth by the customer. This may include a business impact analysis risk assessment continuity strategies etc. In block implementation of the business continuity plan is carried out. This includes the development of such plans recovery plans and procedures organization planning testing etc.

Implementation Transition to On Going Operations The following activities have to be completed to instantiate ITSCM services after an implementation stage in block has been completed and a transition to On Going Operations takes place.

First a document mapping between the Configuration Management Service Catalogues of customer and ITSCM service provider is established. In On Going Operations this mapping uses CMDBf s policy for propagating BSCI changes from Source CMDB to Target CMDB. It is within the responsibility of the customer to assure that changes to the Source CMDB are reflected in the Target CMDB in time.

Adequate BSCI replication methods and SBD backup methods such as setting up VMs with security tokens installing backup agents etc. is established and base services are deployed. Storage for SBD backups is allocated and the registration mechanism is set up. Roles participating in the ITSCM processes are defined and users are assigned to these roles. ITSCM BPEL processes are deployed.

Referring to a flow chart for On going Operations is illustratively shown. This is the most time consuming and based on surveys a weakest part of the ITSCM lifecycle because it needs constant attention. Hence time spent in its activities adds multiple times to the overall cost and inconsistencies in the stage could cause failure of recovery. During On going Operations both the service s BSCIs and SBD change. The SBD grows with the number of customer s computer systems users and time. From a business perspective the SBD includes inherent business value such as business knowledge customer data financial data etc. The BSCIs changes over time as well although they do not necessarily grow in size. The BSCIs do not include inherent business value. However without the BSCI information it may not be possible to recover the production services from a disaster within the bounds of the RTO as specified in the contract between customer and ITSCM service provider.

In block a customer desires to update a service. The source CMDB publishes new BSCI information in block . The target CMDB gets the new BSCI information and provides the service to the customer in block . For the SBD SBD backup is generated by the customer in block . The cloud service provider starts a virtual machine instance in block replicates the BSCI in block and restores the new SBD in the replicated BSCI in block . The SBD storage is reported to the customer.

Referring to a BSCI Replication Process block is illustratively shown. The BSCI Replication process is triggered based on two conditions the SBD backup was received by the provider customer and a check of the Target CMDB revealed that there is no known image at the cloud service provider associated with current BSCI information. In block the target CMDB gets the latest image for the BSCI. Then in block a VM instance is started. An instance configuration is determined for the VM instance in block . A determination is made as to whether the instance is current in block . If it is current nothing need be done. If it is not current the latest BSCI is retrieved in block and an update is executed in block .

Referring to a SBD Backup Process is illustratively depicted. The SBD Backup process is scheduled according to the established RPO. The customer production systems backup agents take coordinated backups checkpoints and persist them to local backup storage. There are a number of parameters that the master backup agent should specify such as scheduling full or incremental backup file system or SQL based backup compression and encryption and the retention policy.

For the illustratively described scenario we choose incremental SQL based database backups that are compressed and encrypted. This setup makes sense in particular for data centric applications such as a Web application that stores its entire SBD in a relational database. Using SQL based instead of file system backups leads to a platform independent backup and restore mechanism and is generally recommended for database backups. We choose incremental backups since this is more efficient and has put smaller constraints than full backups on the bandwidth provided by a service provider. Compression and encryption is useful as it reduces the data transfer and provides security.

Every time a backup is taken by a Backup Service a replica is allocated through the orchestration process at the cloud service provider. Then the Backup Service is invoked to perform a verification procedure on the backup image.

In block SBD backup is performed at the customer. The cloud service provider starts an instance in block . Data is transferred from the customer in block and saved on the instance in block . The backup image is verified in block and if verified is saved to an image in block and backed up in a register in block . If not verified or after being registered the instance is destroyed in block .

Referring to an Invocation and Recovery operation is illustratively shown. The invocation of a DRP is facilitated either by disaster declaration or by a testing event. In both cases it assumed that at the time of declaration access to the customer s site is limited and the customer s business has a major service outage. The customer s management is alerted through existing business procedures. They mandate the execution of an appropriate DRP. Invocation and Recovery processes include such activities as verifying and updating the currency of DRP allocating and configuring required resources from hardware to services requesting latest backup images restoring latest backup SBD and verifying that the service replica is operational. In the present example scenario all BSCI replication and SBD backup and restore activities are executed in the On Going stage of the ITSCM lifecycle. Therefore the recovery activities include request recovery verify service replica information and start VM instances from the latest backup images.

In block a request for recovery is made by the customer. In block service information is displayed. In block the customer requests provisioning from the cloud service provider. The cloud service provider then starts a service replica in block and reports to the customers in block .

A new approach to deliver ITSCM through orchestrating cloud services supporting services and people services has been described. The present approach is based on the separation of an IT service into Business Service Configuration Item BSCI and Service Business Data SBD . This allows replicating BSCI on a VM image that is hosted by a cloud service provider and using file system or database backup and recovery mechanisms for the SBD. The present approach was evaluated against VM image based ITSCM processes that utilize VM inventory control and live migration. Furthermore estimated process execution times suggest that the present approach should be evaluated in a large scale scenario. Orchestrating backup and recovery of large numbers of IT services can be performed to prove the scalability of the suggested processes.

Referring to an example for an IT service replication method is illustratively depicted. Cloud services provide access to basic resources e.g. VM images with a Linux operating system OS . An IT service is divided into an infrastructure management service in block and data management service in block . An initial data store s is created and an initial set of infrastructure images are created on cloud s from one or more cloud provider s . A first resource transformation prepares a Base Service VM Image or a BSCI replica that is configured to host a replica of an IT service . A second resource transformation prepares a Backup Server VM Image of SBD backup in block that coordinates and executes data backup and data restore processes. The recombination of the SBD backup and the BSCI replica provide an IT service replica .

On going transformation of resources includes updating the Base VM Image with new software configurations patches etc. and updating the Backup Server VM Image with the backup schedules and incremental backup data. This results in resources being ready to use when a Service Recovery Workflow requests them. This also results in significantly less recovery time latency since up to date VM images are available with the appropriate data at the time of recovery test initiation etc.

Having described preferred embodiments of a system and method for reducing latency time with cloud services which are intended to be illustrative and not limiting it is noted that modifications and variations can be made by persons skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that changes may be made in the particular embodiments disclosed which are within the scope of the invention as outlined by the appended claims. Having thus described aspects of the invention with the details and particularity required by the patent laws what is claimed and desired protected by Letters Patent is set forth in the appended claims.

