---

title: Secure video content provisioning using digital rights management
abstract: A method that includes receiving a first request for video content from a user of a user device; retrieving an identifier for the user device using an application programming interface; sending a second request to receive the video content that includes the identifier; receiving an instruction to provide payment to rent or purchase the video content; sending the payment in response to the instruction; receiving the video content and a token, where the video content is encrypted based on a key and where the token indicates that the payment was processed; sending a third request to obtain a license associated with the video content that includes the token and the identifier; receiving the license, which includes the key and terms under which the video content is to be processed; decrypting the video content, using the key, when the decrypting is performed in a manner permitted by the terms; and playing the decrypted video content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08726403&OS=08726403&RS=08726403
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08726403
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100902
---
Computing and communication devices are capable of performing an increasing variety of functions and tasks that continue to improve the user s experience. Computing and communication devices can run a variety of applications can connect to a variety of wired and wireless networks can perform point of sale transactions to purchase goods and or services and or can download content which can be stored and or displayed on the computing and communicating devices. Unfortunately downloaded content intended for a particular device can be copied and or transmitted to another device even when the other device has not purchased the downloaded content or is not authorized to receive the downloaded content.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

An implementation described herein may include systems and or methods that provide secure video content provisioning using digital rights management DRM that enables video content to be purchased downloaded and or displayed on different types of user devices in a secure manner. As described herein a user device may use a mobile DRM application to purchase video content and or to download the purchased video content. The user device may use the mobile DRM application to obtain a license associated with the downloaded video content and may use the license to decrypt the video content for display on the user device. Secure video content provisioning using DRM may permit video content to be purchased by downloaded to and or displayed on a user device in a manner that does not permit the video content to be copied and or displayed on another user device if the other user device did not pay for the video content and or is not authorized to receive and or process the video content.

As also shown in a user device may communicate with the content provisioning system to receive video content for display on the user device. For example a user of the user device may desire to view particular video content and may use a mobile DRM application hosted on the user device to request that the particular video content be downloaded to the user device. In one example the user device may send a request to the content provisioning system to purchase the particular video content. The request may include payment information e.g. a credit card number an expiration date etc. information associated with the user and or information associated with the user device. In another example the user may send a request to rent the particular video content for a period of time a particular quantity of viewings and or to preview a sample of the video content prior to purchasing and or renting the video content.

The content provisioning system may receive the request and may send transcoded and or encrypted video content to the user device in response to the request. The video content may include a token associated with the video content that indicates that the payment information was processed. The user device may receive the encrypted video content and the token and the mobile DRM application may retrieve information associated with the user device e.g. a device identifier such as a mobile equipment identifier MEID an international mobile equipment identifier IMEI an Internet protocol IP address and or other device identifiers and or addresses in a manner that does not permit the information associated with the user device to be accessed changed and or forged by a user of the user device or a user of another user device.

The mobile DRM application hosted by the user device may communicate with a license server associated with the content provisioning system to obtain a license to process and or play the video content. The mobile DRM application may for example send the token and or the information associated with the user device to the license server. The license server may for example use the token to determine the terms by which the video content was obtained by the user device e.g. whether the video content was purchased rented etc. . Additionally or alternatively the license server may for example use the information associated with the user device to authenticate the user device. Based on the determination of the terms and or the authentication of the user device the license server may generate a license that includes the terms by which the video content was obtained and or a key that may be used by the user device to decrypt the video content. The license may be configured in a manner that does not permit another user device that is different than the user device to use and or decrypt the video content. Additionally or alternatively the license server may send the license to the user device to be used to decrypt and or play the video content.

The mobile DRM application may use the license to decrypt the video content and or to play the video content. For example the mobile DRM application may use the key obtained from the license to decrypt the video content in order to play the video content on the user device. The license may for example include terms and or rules by which the video content may be played based on the prior purchase rental subscription trial period etc. of the video content. In one example the license may permit the video content to be played a particular quantity of times and or over a particular period of time. In another example the license may permit the video content to be played one time e.g. pay per view an unlimited quantity of times and or over an unlimited period of time based on a prior purchase of the video content.

Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of network may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of network . For example content distribution server license server and or content provider server may be integrated into a single device. Components of network may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

User device may include any computation or communication device such as a wireless mobile communication device that is capable of communicating with network . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a personal computer a set top box STB a television a camera a personal gaming system or another type of computation or communication device. In one example implementation user device may receive process store e.g. in a memory associated with user device and or play video content. In another example implementation user device may host a mobile DRM application and may use the mobile DRM application to receive video content to obtain a license to play video content to decrypt video content to encrypt video content and or to play decrypted video content based on terms of a license associated with the video content.

User device may download a copy of a mobile DRM application from content distribution server e.g. and or some other device associated with network and may register the downloaded mobile DRM application with content distribution server . For example user device may receive the mobile DRM application and may install and or store the mobile DRM application in a memory associated with user device . The mobile DRM application may for example use an application programming interface API e.g. an original equipment manufacturer OEM API etc. that corresponds to a type and or brand of user device to obtain information associated with user device . The information associated with user device may include a unique address associated with user device e.g. a media access control MAC address an IP address a uniform resource locator URL etc. and or a unique device identifier e.g. a MEID an IMEI a mobile directory number MDN an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI an electronic serial number ESN a universal integrated circuit card UICC identifier a mobile identification number MIN a mobile subscriber integrated services digital network MSISDN number a national access identifier NAI an encoder decoder CODEC number a STB identifier etc .

User device may send information associated with the mobile DRM application e.g. an application identifier and or the information associated with user device to content distribution server to register the mobile DRM application and or user device .

User device may download video content from content distribution server . For example a user of user device may use the mobile DRM application to request video content from content distribution server . The request may include information associated with the video content e.g. a video content identifier title etc. and or the information associated with user device . User device may send payment information to content distribution server in order to purchase the video content to rent and or lease the video content e.g. for a particular period of time for a particular quantity of viewings etc. to purchase for one time viewing e.g. pay per view etc. User device may receive encrypted video content and or a token from content distribution server . For example the encrypted video content may not permit user device to play and or copy the video content and or to send the video content to another user device . The token may for example indicate that the payment information was processed by content distribution server . In another example the token may indicate that the video content is authorized to be previewed e.g. for a particular period of time before payment information is to be obtained from user device .

User device may communicate with license server to obtain a license associated with video content downloaded from content distribution server . For example user device may send a request to license server for a license with which the video content can be processed e.g. received decrypted etc. and or played by user device . The request may include the token information associated with the video content and or information associated with user device . User device may receive a license from license server that includes a key associated with the information associated with the user device. The mobile DRM application may use the token to decrypt the video content and or to play the video content. In another example the mobile DRM application may use a key e.g. an OEM key associated with a type or brand of user device that hosts the mobile DRM application to encrypt the video content e.g. the video content that was decrypted using the key obtained from the license in order for user device to play the video content.

The description to follow will generally refer to user device as a wireless mobile communication device. The description is not limited however to a wireless mobile communication device and may equally apply to other types of user devices.

Content distribution server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. Content distribution server may communicate via network . In one example content distribution server may receive encrypted and or transcoded video content from content provider server and may store the video content in a memory associated with content distribution server . Content distribution server may use a key e.g. a provider key obtained at a prior point in time from content provider server to decrypt video content received from content provider server . In another example content distribution server may receive a video content identifier e.g. a content ID associated with the video content received from content provider server and or another key e.g. a seed key obtained from content provider server at a prior point in time to generate the provider key.

Content distribution server may process a request e.g. from user device for video content that may include determining the type of user device e.g. a mobile wireless device a PDA a laptop computer etc. a brand of user device e.g. iPhone DROID etc. etc. from which the request was received. Based on the determination content distribution server may retrieve particular transcoded video content that a particular user device e.g. a particular type and or brand of user device can receive process and or play.

Content distribution server may process point of sale transactions associated with video content with user device . Based on the point of sale transaction content distribution server may send encrypted and or transcoded video content to user device . In another example content distribution server may as a result of the point of sale transaction generate a token associated with the video content and based on the information associated with the user device . Content distribution server may send the token to user device as an indication that payment information for the video content was processed via the point of sale transaction.

License server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information. In one example implementation license server may process requests for licenses associated with video content received from user device . For example license server may receive a request for a license associated with video content that includes a token information associated with user device and or information associated with the video content. License server may use the token to verify that the video content was obtained by user device as a result of a point of sale transaction regarding the video content. In another example license server may use the information associated with the user device to authenticate user device . In yet another example license server may use the information associated with user device to verify user device by communicating with content distribution server . Based on the authentication and or verification license server may for example generate a license that authorizes user device to decrypt and or play the video content in accordance with terms of the point of sale transaction e.g. a purchase rent lease pay per view etc. . License server may generate a license for the video content that contains a key that enables user device to process and or play the video content. For example the key may permit user device to decrypt the video content but may prohibit another user device to decrypt the video content.

Content provider server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information. Content provider server may interface with network . In one example implementation content provider server may encrypt video content hereinafter referred to as provider encryption using an encryption key e.g. a provider key . Content provider server may provide a provider key and or an identifier associated with video content e.g. a content ID to content distribution server which may permit content distribution server to decrypt and or process video content received from content provider server . Additionally or alternatively content provider server may process video content so that the processed video content may be received and or played by different types and or brands of user devices . For example content provider server may transcode video content using data structures protocols and or proprietary APIs that permit the different types of user devices to receive process and or play the transcoded video content.

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network a public land mobile network PLMN a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network e.g. a long term evolution LTE network a fifth generation 5G network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a wide area network WAN a metropolitan network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network e.g. a FiOS network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

Although not shown in network may include a variety of other devices such as an authentication server a self provisioning server etc. Each of these devices may perform certain functions described briefly below. Any of these functions may be performed by content distribution server license server and or content provider server . Thus one or more of these devices may be integrated into content distribution server license server and or content provider server .

The authentication server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that authenticate user device and or license server . For example the authentication server may receive a request to authenticate user device based on information associated with content distribution server e.g. an identifier associated with content distribution server information associated with a user of user device e.g. username password email address PIN etc. and or information associated with user device e.g. an identifier associated with user device .

The self provisioning server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that enable the registration of user device . The self provisioning server may receive registration information from user device and or content distribution server . The self provisioning server may facilitate sending address information associated with content distribution server and or content provider server to user device and or may forward backup preferences associated with a user of user device to license server .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the user such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems via wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared and or visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as network .

As will be described in detail below device may perform certain operations relating to secure video content provisioning using DRM. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. A logical memory device may include memory space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause to processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Display may include a component to receive input electrical signals and present a visual output in the form of text images videos and or combinations of text images and or videos which communicate visual information to the user of user device . In one implementation display may display text input into user device text images and or video received from another device and or information regarding incoming or outgoing calls or text messages emails media games phone books address books the current time etc.

Control buttons may include one or more buttons that accept as input mechanical pressure from the user e.g. the user presses a control button or combinations of control buttons and send electrical signals to processor that may cause user device to perform one or more operations. For example control buttons may be used to cause user device to transmit information. Keypad may include a standard telephone keypad or another arrangement of keys.

Microphone may include a component to receive audible information from the user and send as output an electrical signal that may be stored by user device transmitted to another user device or cause the device to perform one or more operations. Camera may be provided on a back side of user device and may include a component to receive as input analog optical signals and send as output a digital image or video that can be for example viewed on display stored in the memory of user device discarded and or transmitted to another user device .

Although depicts example components of user device in other implementations user device may include fewer components additional components different components or differently arranged components than illustrated in . In still other implementations one or more components of user device may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of user device .

Processing unit may include a processor a microprocessor an ASIC a FPGA or the like. Processing unit may control operation of user device and its components. In one implementation processing unit may control operation of components of user device in a manner similar to that described herein. Memory may include a RAM a ROM and or another type of memory to store data and or instructions that may be used by processing unit .

User interface may include mechanisms for inputting information to user device and or for outputting information from user device . Examples of input and output mechanisms might include buttons e.g. control buttons keys of keypad a keyboard a joystick etc. a touch screen interface to permit data and control commands to be input into user device a biometric device to receive fingerprints scans retina scans facial signatures etc. a speaker e.g. speaker to receive electrical signals and output audio signals a microphone e.g. microphone to receive audio signals and output electrical signals a display e.g. display to output visual information e.g. user interfaces web pages etc. a vibrator to cause user device to vibrate and or a camera e.g. camera to receive video and or images.

Communication interface may include for example a transmitter that may convert baseband signals from processing unit to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that may convert RF signals to baseband signals. Alternatively communication interface may include a transceiver to perform functions of both a transmitter and a receiver of wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. Communication interface may connect to antenna assembly for transmission and or reception of the RF signals.

Antenna assembly may include one or more antennas to transmit and or receive RF signals over the air. Antenna assembly may for example receive RF signals from communication interface and transmit them over the air and receive RF signals over the air and provide them to communication interface . In one implementation for example communication interface may communicate with a network and or devices connected to a network e.g. network .

As described in detail below user device may perform certain operations described herein in response to processing unit executing software instructions of an application contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

As shown in process may include sending a request to download a mobile DRM application and receiving the mobile DRM application block . For example a user of user device may desire to receive and or play or view video content and may instruct user device to download a mobile DRM application from content distribution server and or some other server device. The user device may in response to the instruction send a request to content distribution server to download the mobile DRM application. Content distribution server may receive the request and may send the mobile DRM application to user device .

As also shown in process may include installing a mobile DRM application on user device block . For example user device may install the mobile DRM application on user device . For example user device may store the mobile DRM application in a memory associated with user device . Additionally or alternatively the mobile DRM application may use an API or a set of APIs to communicate with user device to obtain information associated with user device . In one example the mobile DRM application may use an OEM API associated with a type and or brand of user device to obtain from user device the information associated with user device . The information associated with the user device may include a unique address associated with user device e.g. a MAC address an IP address etc. and or a unique device identifier e.g. a MEID an IMEI a MDN an IMSI an ESN a UICC identifier a MIN a MSISDN a NAI a CODEC number a STB identifier etc. .

As further shown in process may include registering the mobile DRM application and or user device on which the mobile DRM application is hosted block . For example the mobile DRM application may obtain the information associated with user device and may register the mobile DRM application and or user device e.g. with content distribution server and or some other server device . In one example the mobile DRM application may send the information associated with user device to content distribution server . Additionally or alternatively the mobile DRM application may send information associated with the mobile DRM application e.g. a unique application identifier or some other identifier to content distribution server . In another example the mobile DRM application may send information associated with a user of user device to content distribution server .

In another example implementation the mobile DRM application may enable the user to specify preferences associated with using the mobile DRM application. For example the mobile application may enable a user to enter payment information e.g. credit card number credit card expiration date billing address etc. that may permit selected video content to be purchased at a future point in time using the payment information. In another example the mobile DRM application may enable a user to identify preferred terms of a purchase or rental of video content. The terms as specified by the user may identify a preferred rental period e.g. one day one week one month etc. a preferred quantity of times video content is to be displayed a preference for purchasing or renting etc. In yet another example the mobile DRM application may enable a user to specify parental controls that prohibit particular video content to be received on user device e.g. no video content above a particular rating such as a R rating or some other rating . In still another example the mobile DRM application may permit the user to specify preferred video content genres e.g. drama horror comedy games etc. . The mobile DRM application may send the user preferences to content distribution server .

Content distribution server may receive the information associated with user device information associated with the mobile DRM application information associated with the user and or information associated with user preferences and may store the received information in a memory associated with content distribution server .

As shown in process may include sending a request to download video content block . For example a user of user device may use the mobile DRM application to view a list of video content identifiers e.g. titles icons descriptions etc. on a video content guide user interface UI on user device . The user may select a video content identifier from the list of video content identifiers via the video content guide UI and user device may receive the selection via the video content guide UI. The mobile DRM application may send to content distribution server a request to obtain video content that corresponds to the selection. The request may include the selected video content identifier and credentials associated with user device such as information associated with user device e.g. a device identifier a device address etc. information associated with the mobile device application e.g. an application identifier etc. and or information associated with the user e.g. username password personal identification number etc. . The mobile DRM application may obtain information associated with user device e.g. using an OEM API associated with user device in a manner that cannot be forged copied changed and or that is not accessible by the user.

For example content distribution server may receive a request to obtain video content and may authenticate user device by comparing credentials received with the request with credentials stored in a memory associated with content distribution server . Content distribution server may deny the request to obtain video content based on a determination that the received credentials do not match the stored credentials. If however content distribution server determines that the received credentials match the stored credentials then content distribution server may authenticate user device .

As also shown in process may include performing a point of sale transaction associated with the video content block . For example based on authentication of user device content distribution server may send an instruction for the user to send payment information associated with the selection. The instruction may for example enable the user to select and or indicate a manner in which the user desires to obtain the video content. For example the instruction may permit the user to identify whether the user desires to rent and or purchase the video content. In one example the user may indicate e.g. via user device a desire to rent the video content e.g. for a particular period of time for a particular quantity of viewings etc. and may provide payment information that corresponds with terms of the rent for the video content. In another example the user may indicate a desire to purchase the video content and may provide payment information corresponding to the purchase. In yet another example the user may indicate a desire to preview the video content in order to determine whether to purchase and or rent the video content. In this example the video content may be played by user device for a particular period of time after which the mobile DRM application may instruct the user to enter payment information if the user desires to view the video content. In still another example the user may indicate a desire to purchase a subscription for a period of time e.g. one month six months one year etc. for a particular quantity of video content e.g. based on a threshold specified and or selected by the user and or a particular genre of video content etc. and may provide payment information corresponding to the subscription.

Content distribution server may receive the indication and or the payment information from user device and may process the payment information to determine that the payment information is valid and or to receive payment. In one example content distribution server may compare the received payment information with stored payment information to determine whether the received payment information matches the stored payment information. In another example content distribution server may send the payment information to another network device that provides a payment processing service to determine whether the payment information is valid and or to process payment for the video content. In yet another example content distribution server may not receive payment information and may use payment information obtained during a registration operation as described above e.g. with respect to to process payment for the video content.

As further shown in process may include receiving video content block . For example based on a determination that the payment information is valid content distribution server may communicate with content provider server to obtain video content associated with the selection. The communication may include information associated with a type and or brand of user device that enables content provider server to provide the video content that has been transcoded into a data structure protocol and or standard that user device can receive process and or play. Content provider server may encrypt e.g. using a provider key the transcoded video content and or may send the transcoded video content to content distribution server . Content distribution server may receive the transcoded video content and may generate a token that indicates that the video content has been purchased and or rented. Content distribution server may send the transcoded video content and or the token to user device and user device may receive the transcoded video content.

As yet further shown in if a license associated with video content has not been obtained block NO then process may include sending a request to obtain the license block and receiving the license in response to the request block . For example the mobile DRM application may determine that a license associated with the transcoded video content is not stored in a memory associated with user device . Based on the determination the mobile DRM application may send to license server a request for the license associated with the transcoded video content. The request may include a token associated with the transcoded video content information associated with user device e.g. a device identifier an address etc. and or an identifier associated with the transcoded video content.

License server may receive the request and may send the token an identifier associated with the transcoded video content and or the information associated with user device to content distribution server to verify whether to provide and or the terms under which a license is to be provided to user device .

For example content distribution server may receive the token the identifier and or the information associated with user device and may retrieve from a memory associated with content distribution server information associated with a prior point of sale transaction e.g. corresponding to the token . Content distribution server may determine whether the received information associated with user device matches information associated with user device obtained from the information associated with the point of sale transaction. Based on a determination that the received information associated with user device does not match the information associated with user device obtained from the information associated with the point of sale transaction content distribution server may not send a key to license server .

In another example content distribution server may determine that the received information associated with user device matches the information associated with user device obtained from the information associated with the point of sale transaction. Based on the determination content distribution server may identify terms by which the transcoded video content was obtained via the point of sale transaction e.g. via a rental a pay per view a purchase a subscription a preview a trial etc . Content distribution server may send to license server a key e.g. a provider key received from content provider server and or the identified terms by which the transcoded video content was obtained.

License server may receive the key and the identified terms and may send a license to user device . For example license server may receive the key and or the identified terms and may generate a license associated with the transcoded video content based on the key and the identified terms. License server may send the license to user device and user device may receive the license.

In another example implementation the mobile DRM application may send the request to obtain the license to license server at a prior point in time. The prior point in time may for example be prior to the point of sale transaction to obtain the transcoded video content e.g. as described above with respect to block . In yet another example implementation the mobile DRM application may send the request to obtain the license to license server and license server may perform the point of sale transaction e.g. using the payment information received from user device in order to provide the license.

As also shown in process may include decrypting video content and or playing the video content block . For example the mobile DRM application may automatically obtain a key from the license and may use the key to decrypt the transcoded video content received from content distribution server . The mobile DRM application may instruct user device to play the decrypted video content on user device . In another example the mobile DRM application may obtain the key and or may decrypt the transcoded video content in response to a request from a user of user device .

In another example implementation user device may convert the received transcoded video content from a provider encrypted format e.g. based on a provider key associated with content provider server to an OEM encrypted format using an OEM key associated with a type and or brand of user device . For example the mobile DRM application may decrypt the received transcoded video content using the key e.g. a provider key obtained from the license. The mobile DRM application may then encrypt the transcoded video content using the OEM key in order to play the video content on user device .

As further shown in if a license associated with video content has been obtained block YES and if terms of the license do not authorize the video content to be processed block NO then process may include sending a notification that the video content cannot be processed block . For example the mobile DRM application may retrieve a license associated with the transcoded video content from a memory associated with user device . The license may include information associated with terms of the license by which the transcoded video content may be processed e.g. decrypted encrypted etc. and or played by user device . For example the mobile DRM application may determine from the information associated with the terms of the license that a rental period a subscription period and or a preview period associated with the transcoded video content has expired. In another example the mobile DRM application may determine that a quantity of times that the transcoded video content has been processed and or played by user device exceeds a threshold identified in the information associated with the terms of the license. In still another example the mobile DRM application may determine that a trial period associated with the transcoded video content has expired. Based on the determination that the mobile DRM application may present a notification for display on user device that indicates that the transcoded video content cannot be played. In another example the notification may instruct the user to renew the license by entering payment information and or by selecting a button on a user interface via which the notification is displayed.

As yet further shown in if a license associated with video content has been obtained block YES and if terms of the license authorize the video content to be processed block YES then process may include decrypting the video content and or playing the video content block . For example the mobile DRM application may retrieve a license associated with the transcoded video content from a memory associated with user device . The license may include information associated with terms of the license by which the transcoded video content may be processed e.g. decrypted encrypted etc. and or played by user device . For example the mobile DRM application may determine from the information associated with the terms of the license that a rental period a subscription period and or a preview period associated with the transcoded video content has not expired. In another example the mobile DRM application may determine that a quantity of times that the transcoded video content has been processed and or played by user device is less than a threshold identified in the information associated with the terms of the license. In still another example the mobile DRM application may determine that a trial period associated with the transcoded video content has not expired. Based on the determination the mobile DRM application may use the key obtained from the license to decrypt the video content and or play the transcoded video content in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to block .

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention.

While series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that systems and methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions described above may be implemented as a component that performs one or more functions. A component as used herein may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software e.g. a processor executing software .

It should be emphasized that the terms comprises comprising when used in this specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the invention. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the invention includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

