---

title: Challenge search query game
abstract: The present disclosure is directed to challenge search query game systems and methods wherein search queries are integrated into game play activities. In one example approach, a challenge search query game system may include a search server configured to receive a challenge query from a game program in response to an in-game action by a game player, and retrieve a challenge in response to the challenge query. The challenge may include one or more clues and a solution. The search server may further be configured to send the challenge to the game program for display in the game, causing the game program to store the challenge and present a first clue from the one or more clues to the game player.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08814643&OS=08814643&RS=08814643
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08814643
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101027
---
Casual social games e.g. games published on webpages and or social networks on the internet may encourage game players to play multiple times per day by providing in game rewards e.g. on a fixed schedule. Such in game rewards e.g. virtual money and or game advancement may be earned or achieved when a game player completes various mini games or specific tasks or challenges within the published game. Additionally a game player may invite others e.g. from the game player s social graph to participate with and or assist in game play thereby leading to an increase in a published game s user base.

Such games published by a game publisher may be substantially free to play however in some examples a game player may pay real money to the game publisher in order to advance in a game e.g. to save time. In this way the game publisher generates revenue. However only a small fraction of the user base for a casual social game will ever enter into a paying transaction in this manner and accordingly most casual social games have not lived up to their revenue generation potential.

The present disclosure is directed to challenge search query game systems and methods wherein search queries are integrated into game play activities. In one example approach a challenge search query game system may include a search server configured to receive a challenge query from a game program in response to an in game action by a game player and retrieve a challenge in response to the challenge query. The challenge may include one or more clues and a solution. The search server may further be configured to send the challenge to the game program for display in the game causing the game program to store the challenge and present a first clue from the one or more clues to the game player.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is directed to a challenge search query game system an example of which is shown in including a search server that is configured to serve an in game mini game to a game program. The game program in a challenge search query game system provides a game to a game player in a graphical user interface on a client device as shown in B C and D for example. The game program communicates with a search server and a client device for example as shown in the communications flow diagram of to provide challenges for display in a game which cause a game player to perform one or more searches to solve the challenge. For the game player participating in such a search integrated gaming experience may provide access to game credit and or advancement without having to spend real money to achieve this privilege. In addition such search integrated games may increase the global query share and ad revenue for a search engine in operation with such a game.

For example game may be accessed by a game player through a browser or any other suitable interface. Such an interface may be running on a client device e.g. a personal computer a mobile device a cell phone etc.

In some examples in order to initiate game a game player may supply credentials to a game program which publishes the game. For example a game player may log in to or register with the game program in order to play the game. In doing so the game player may submit profile information to the game program such as age sex location etc. Additionally a game player may be provided various privacy options by the game program. For example a game player may opt in to share personal information with the game program or a search server. However in other examples a game player may play the game in a substantially anonymous fashion.

A game player may interact with game in a variety of ways. For example a game player may interact with game via keypad input speech input gesture input mouse input or a dedicated game controller.

Game may be any kind of game including one or more challenges and various in game rewards or advancement opportunities. For example game may be a virtual board game a role playing game a word game etc. Namely it should be understood that game illustrated in B C and D is exemplary in nature and that these specific embodiments or examples are not to be considered in a limiting sense because numerous variations are possible.

Game may include a plurality of options and elements. For example the game may present a plurality of different challenge options to a player from which they can select. Additionally the game may provide various indications of a level of advancement amount of virtual money earned number of points earned etc.

In some examples game may include or provide an option to a game player to play a search query mini game. Such mini games may run within or outside of game . For example each mini game in game may correspond to a specific task or challenge to be performed in order to progress in the game. Successful completion of a mini game may result in in game rewards and or advancement in the game.

In for example a search query mini game is offered to a game player at . The game player is presented with an option to select the search query mini game. For example option may be an in game mini game selector where upon selection of the selector by a game player the mini game is initiated. In other examples other actions by a game player in a game may initiate the search query mini game. For example upon selecting to play game a game player may be provided with one or more search query mini games throughout the game play.

In response to a selection of the mini game e.g. via a selection of option the mini game may be initiated. The mini game may be a search query based challenge designed to prompt a game player to employ search results in order to complete the mini game. In other words a search query mini game may be engineered to cause a game player to perform one or more searches via a search engine provided by a search server. In this way an increase in the number of clicks on sponsored links provided with search results in the game may occur thereby increasing revenue generated by the search engine which may be shared with a publisher of the game.

For example as shown in a search query mini game may be displayed to the game player as a search interface within game . The search query mini game may be driven by a challenge provided to the game player. Challenge may be any type of challenge which prompts a player to perform at least one search query. The challenge may be generated by a search server and may be based on game player profile information trending search results time of day etc. Additionally challenge may include a plurality of clues and a pre determined solution.

By way of example challenge shown in is connected to a character in game . The challenge poses a word game to the game player wherein the game player guesses or proposes answers to the challenge in order to attempt to solve the challenge. For example challenge challenges the game player to determine what character in game is hungry for and a solution to this example challenge is hotdog. Clues to assist the game player in solving this example challenge include ketchup and baseball. 

In some examples a predetermined number of clues may be provided to the game player to assist the game player in solving the challenge. For example if a player cannot determine the solution based on the predetermined number of clues then a new challenge may be provided to the player. In other examples the number of clues provided to the game player may be substantially limitless but the mini game may have a time limit for example.

In the example shown in a first clue ketchup is provided to the game player. In response the game player provides a guess or proposed answer upon which search results are generated. The guesses or proposed answers are one or more keywords which seed search results and sponsored links provided by a search engine.

For example as shown in a search interface is displayed within the game . The search interface displays the challenge question a first clue and an input field which allows a player to input guesses or proposed answers to the challenge. Upon input of a proposed answer e.g. hamburger relevant search results are provided by the search server and displayed within the mini game. Additionally relevant sponsored links are displayed.

The sponsored links displayed with the search results within the mini game may be provided by one or more advertisers. Each advertiser may pay a search server provider a predetermined amount of money when a game player selects the advertiser s sponsored link. In this way revenue may be generated for the search server provider and shared with a publisher of game .

Since search results and sponsored links show up when a game player is trying to solve the challenge it may happen that a player may select a sponsored link and revenue is generated and shared. Indeed during search query mini game play the game player may perform any number of searches within the search query mini game.

In some examples if a game player proposes an incorrect answer to the challenge e.g. as determined by game or the search server the mini game may continue to display a search interface with search results and sponsored links as the game players makes additional guesses or enters other keywords into the proposed answer field . In other examples in response to an incorrect answer submitted by the game player a second clue different from the first clue may automatically be provided to the game player. In still other examples in response to an incorrect answer submitted by the game player an option may be provided within the search results for a game player to receive another clue. For example in game rewards may be based on how many clues it takes for the game player to determine the correct answer to the challenge.

The communications between the game program and the client device and the game program and the search server may occur over a network via a standard internet protocol e.g. TCP IP. In some examples the communications between the game program and the search server may be handled by an application programming interface API running on the search server. In other examples the search server may be configured to handle communications with the game program .

Game program may include a plurality of games published or made available by a game publisher including a game such as game described above which includes at least one search query mini game.

At the game program provides or sends a game where the game includes a least one search query mini game to client device . In some examples the game may be sent to a client device in response to an action by the client device. For example the client device may submit credentials to the game program to initiate or receive the game. In other examples the game may be provided to the client device in response to an invitation by another player of the game.

While a game player at client device is playing the game at the game player may perform via client device an in game action which initiates a search query mini game within the game provided from game program . For example the game player may select an in game mini game selector in the game published by the game player.

At in response to the game player action at the game program provides a challenge query to the search server . For example the API executed on the search server may be configured to receive the challenge query from the game program in response to the action at by the game player in the game.

In some examples the challenge query may include game player profile information e.g. geographic location information derived from a reverse IP lookup and or game player search history e.g. as stored in a database on search server . However game player profile information included in the challenge query may not include personally identifiable information PII unless the player opts in to share personally identifiable information with the search server for example.

At the search server generates a challenge. For example the API may retrieve a challenge from the search server in response to the challenge query. For example the challenge may be generated based on at least one database search on the search server and may be based on at least one of game player profile information and search trend data stored on the search server. In some examples the search trend data may be dynamically computed by the search server in substantially real time. For example the search trend data may be computed every minute every hour every day etc.

At the challenge is sent from search server to the game program . In some examples the challenge may include one or more clues and a pre determined solution. For example the API executed on the search server may be configured to send the challenge to the game program for display in the game provided to the client device. In some examples the API executed on the search server may be configured to cause the game to store the challenge at and provide or present a first clue to the game player at .

At the game player inputs one or more keywords or proposed answers to try to solve the challenge. At the keywords input by the game player are sent via the game program to the search server so that a search query is performed on the search server based on the keywords. For example the API executed on the search server may be configured to receive a search query from the game program in response to providing the first clue to the game player where the search query is based on one or more keywords input by the game player.

At the search server determines whether the input keywords solve the challenge or match a solution to the challenge. For example the API executed on the search server may be configured to cause the search server to determine if the one or more keywords are a solution to the challenge.

If it is determined that the keywords do not solve the challenge or do not match a solution to the challenge at then at search results and sponsored links seeded by the keywords are provided to the game player within the mini game. For example the API executed on the search server may be configured to provide search results and sponsored links to the game program. The game program may then send the search results and sponsored links to the client device within the game interface.

If a game player selects a sponsored link at then at revenue is generated at the search server and may be shared with a publisher of the game provided to the client device from game program . For example in response to the game player selecting a sponsored link via client device the API executed on the search server may be configured to generate and share revenue with a game publisher of the game.

Each sponsored link included with search results generated by the search server may be provided by an advertiser where the advertiser specifies at least one search tag and selects a network where the sponsored link is to be displayed. For example an advertiser may assign one or more keywords to an advertisement submitted to the search server or may specify at the search server one or more relevant categories related to the advertisement. In this way the advertisement submitted by the advertiser may be displayed to a game player as a sponsored link when the game player inputs keywords related to the advertisement in the game.

If the game player requests a second clue at the game program presents a second clue different from the first clue to the game player. However in some examples it may happen that a second clue is automatically presented to the game player after a player performs a predetermined number of searches within the game.

If keywords input by the client device at are determined by the search server to solve the challenge or match a solution to the challenge at then at search results sponsored links and a solution notification may be provided to the game player. For example the API executed on the search server may be configured to provide search results sponsored links and a solution notification embedded in the search results to the game program. The game program may then send the search results sponsored links and solution notification to the client device within the game interface.

If the game player selects a sponsored link at then at revenue is generated at the search server and may be shared with a publisher of the game provided to the client device from game program .

In some examples the solution notification may be embedded within the search results. If the game player selects the solution notification at the game program may perform a predefined action at . For example the API executed on the search server may be configured to send a message to the game program to perform a predefined action in response to the game player selecting the solution notification. For example the game player may be returned to the game and in game rewards may be provided by the game program.

In some embodiments the above described methods and processes may be tied to various computing systems including one or more computers. In particular the methods and processes described herein may be implemented as a computer application computer service computer API computer library and or other computer program product.

For example is a schematic view of a challenge search query game system according to one embodiment. Namely schematically shows computing systems in accordance with an embodiment of present disclosure including a search server a game program and a client device . The game program may include one or both of a server side game program component on a game server and a client side game program component on client device .

Search server is a computing system including an application programming interface API a search engine a ranker algorithm at least one database a mini game program and an ad interface .

Application programming interface handles the communications between the search server and the game program e.g. the communications described above with regard to . For example application programming interface may be configured to receive a search query from the game program and pass the query to search engine . In some example such queries may be passed with an identification based on a game player s profile information.

Search engine drives the challenges presented in a search query mini game within a game published by a game player e.g. as described above. Further search engine may dynamically alter the challenges sent to a game program based on game player profile information and or search trend data e.g. stored in database . For example types of challenges presented to a game player in a mini game may be engineered to target sponsored links to a specific game player.

Ranker algorithm may be configured to analyze search data to determine trending search results which may be stored in database .

Database may be queried during generation of challenges sent to the game program during a mini game. Database may include a variety of search trend data. In some examples search trend data may be game player specific e.g. based on a specific game player s search history profile information etc.

Mini game program includes a variety of game specific algorithms. For example mini game program may determine a type of mini game included in a game published by a game publisher so that challenges generated on the search server may be tailored to a specific type of game.

Ad interface is configured to provide an interface for advertisers to submit and or bid on advertisements which may be displayed on various networks which use the search capabilities of search server . For example via ad interface advertisers can specify key words tags times locations etc. corresponding to an advertisement. In some examples advertisers may specify which networks served by the search server to publish ads to. For example an advertiser may select to publish an ad to a particular game or to an entire game space.

Game program may include one or both of a client side game program component and a server side game program component . Client side game program component may be implemented on client device to provide a game to a game player. For example client side game program component may be an executable program running on client device . Server side game program component may be executed on game server . In some examples game server may handle all communications with search server during game play.

Game program is a computing system which includes at least one game including a search query mini game which may be provided to a game player. In some examples game program may provide challenge queries to the search server based on in game categories or actions.

Client device is a computing system via which a game player accesses and plays games published by a game publisher and provided by game program . For example client device may be a personal computer a mobile device a cell phone etc.

A communication system may be configured to communicatively couple the computing systems shown in with each other and one or more other computing devices. Communication system may include wired and or wireless communication devices compatible with one or more different communication protocols. As nonlimiting examples the communication system may be configured for communication via a wireless telephone network a wireless local area network a wired local area network a wireless wide area network WAN a wired wide area network etc. In some embodiments the communication system may allow the computing systems to send and or receive messages to and or from other devices via a network such as the Internet

Each computing system shown in e.g. search server game program and client device is shown in simplified form and may perform one or more of the above described methods and processes. It is to be understood that virtually any computer architecture may be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure. In different embodiments each computing system may take the form of a mainframe computer server computer desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer home entertainment computer network computing device mobile computing device mobile communication device gaming device etc.

Each computing system shown in may include a logic subsystem and a data holding subsystem. Each computing system may optionally include a display subsystem communication subsystem and or other components not shown in . Each computing system may also optionally include user input devices such as keyboards mice game controllers cameras microphones and or touch screens for example.

A logic subsystem included in each computing system shown in may include one or more physical devices configured to execute one or more instructions. For example a logic subsystem may be configured to execute one or more instructions that are part of one or more applications services programs routines libraries objects components data structures or other logical constructs. Such instructions may be implemented to perform a task implement a data type transform the state of one or more devices or otherwise arrive at a desired result.

A logic subsystem included in each computing system shown in may include one or more processors that are configured to execute software instructions. Additionally or alternatively the logic subsystems may include one or more hardware or firmware logic machines configured to execute hardware or firmware instructions. Processors of the logic subsystems may be single core or multicore and the programs executed thereon may be configured for parallel or distributed processing. The logic subsystems may optionally include individual components that are distributed throughout two or more devices which may be remotely located and or configured for coordinated processing. One or more aspects of the logic subsystems may be virtualized and executed by remotely accessible networked computing devices configured in a cloud computing configuration.

Data holding subsystems included in each computing device shown in may include one or more physical non transitory devices configured to hold data and or instructions executable by the logic subsystem to implement the herein described methods and processes. When such methods and processes are implemented the state of the data holding subsystems may be transformed e.g. to hold different data .

The data holding subsystems may include removable media and or built in devices. The data holding subsystems may include optical memory devices e.g. CD DVD HD DVD Blu Ray Disc etc. semiconductor memory devices e.g. RAM EPROM EEPROM etc. and or magnetic memory devices e.g. hard disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive MRAM etc. among others. The data holding subsystems may include devices with one or more of the following characteristics volatile nonvolatile dynamic static read write read only random access sequential access location addressable file addressable and content addressable. In some embodiments the logic subsystems and the data holding subsystem may be integrated into one or more common devices such as an application specific integrated circuit or a system on a chip.

In some example one or more of the data holding subsystems may be in the form of removable computer readable storage media which may be used to store and or transfer data and or instructions executable to implement the herein described methods and processes. Removable computer readable storage media may take the form of CDs DVDs HD DVDs Blu Ray Discs EEPROMs and or floppy disks among others.

The terms module program and engine may be used to describe an aspect of the computing systems shown in that is implemented to perform one or more particular functions. In some cases such a module program or engine may be instantiated via a logic subsystem executing instructions held by a corresponding data holding subsystem. It is to be understood that different modules programs and or engines may be instantiated from the same application service code block object library routine API function etc. Likewise the same module program and or engine may be instantiated by different applications services code blocks objects routines APIs functions etc. The terms module program and engine are meant to encompass individual or groups of executable files data files libraries drivers scripts database records etc.

It is to be appreciated that a service as used herein may be an application program executable across multiple user sessions and available to one or more system components programs and or other services. In some implementations a service may run on a server responsive to a request from a client device.

When included a display subsystem may be used to present a visual representation of data held by a data holding subsystem. As the herein described methods and processes change the data held by the data holding subsystem and thus transform the state of the data holding subsystem the state of the display subsystem may likewise be transformed to visually represent changes in the underlying data. Display subsystems may include one or more display devices utilizing virtually any type of technology. Such display devices may be combined with logic subsystems and or data holding subsystems in a shared enclosure or such display devices may be peripheral display devices.

It is to be understood that the configurations and or approaches described herein are exemplary in nature and that these specific embodiments or examples are not to be considered in a limiting sense because numerous variations are possible. The specific routines or methods described herein may represent one or more of any number of processing strategies. As such various acts illustrated may be performed in the sequence illustrated in other sequences in parallel or in some cases omitted. Likewise the order of the above described processes may be changed.

The subject matter of the present disclosure includes all novel and nonobvious combinations and subcombinations of the various processes systems and configurations and other features functions acts and or properties disclosed herein as well as any and all equivalents thereof.

