---

title: Payment link
abstract: In one embodiment, an intended recipient of money transmits a payment link created by the recipient to an intended sender of money, where the link contains a locator to a site of a payment provider, information about the recipient (e.g., email address), and the amount of money to be sent. The link can be sent via email, text, IM, or other means. The sender then accesses the link, such as by clicking or tapping on the link, which launches a checkout or payment page for the sender on the payment provider site. The sender completes the payment page, and the payment is sent to the recipient by the payment provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08719156&OS=08719156&RS=08719156
owner: Ebay Inc.
number: 08719156
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100629
---
The present invention generally relates to on line payments and in particular to payments between two parties.

More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic networks such as the Internet. Consumers routinely search for and purchase products and services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions can take place directly between an on line merchant or retailer and the consumer where payment is typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Transactions can also take place with the aid of an on line payment provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such payment providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties. Payment providers enable payments to be made through many different convenient methods.

A payment to be made or received such as after a purchase a loan repayment a donation a gift etc. can be accomplished in many different ways. Examples include a recipient issuing an invoice or a sender initiating a check out procedure or payment procedure. This can be performed through a payment provider. However obtaining payment from a sender may not always be prompt due to many factors including the inconvenience of the sender to make the payment. In one example the recipient which can be a merchant seller or anyone requesting money sends a request to the sender for a payment. The request may be in the form of an electronic or paper invoice. Once received the sender processes the invoice for payment depending on the type of invoice.

For a paper invoice the sender may review and then transmit payment information such as credit card information bank information or a check. For an electronic invoice the sender may need to enter recipient information and the sender s payment information in an electronic communication. This information may be cumbersome and time consuming for the sender which may cause the sender to delay entering the information resulting in a delayed payment to the recipient.

Thus there is a need for a way that make it easier for senders to make a payment or send money to recipients without the disadvantages of the conventional methods above.

In accordance with different embodiments an intended recipient of money transmits a human readable or user discernable link created by the recipient to an intended sender of money where the link contains a locator to a site of a payment provider information about the recipient and the amount of money to be sent. The human readable or user discernable link is descriptive and in common language such that non technical people can read the link and understand the meaning. The sender then accesses the link such as by clicking on the link which launches a checkout or payment page for the sender on the payment provider site. The sender completes the payment page and the payment is sent to the recipient by the payment provider.

In one embodiment the link has the format of http payment provider address recipient email amount . The recipient can transmit the link to the sender in any number of ways including as part of an email text instant message paper or any other suitable medium. Clicking or going to the link launches a payment page from the payment provider site which includes the recipient s information and the amount to be paid obtained through the link. The sender may then simply enter the sender s login information such as a user name and password. Once verified the sender views the recipient information and amount. If correct the sender clicks on a button or link to confirm the payment. The payment is then sent to the designated recipient.

In other embodiments the link may have different formats. For example the link may include a descriptor of what the payment is for and or the recipient information may be a mobile number or a username from a social site. Another example is a link that does not include the payment amount. This allows the sender to enter in any suitable amount which may be appropriate for soliciting charitable contributions. In different embodiments the link is easily understood by both the sender and recipient neither of which has to be technical and can both be layperson.

Using this method for payment provides numerous advantages. The recipient has an easy and intuitive way to create a payment link for transmitting to a sender. The sender has an easy to way make the payment by simply clicking on the link and entering in a small amount of readily available information. The sender does not even have to have an account with the payment provider. As a result a recipient may receive prompt payment due to the ease of which a sender can make the payment.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Once the payment link is created the link is transmitted to a money sender or payer at step . The transmission may be in any number of ways. For example the user may send the link via a short message service SMS or text to the sender s mobile device. Because it is desirable to reduce the length of the SMS the additional subject field above helps identify to the sender the purpose of the payment request without the recipient having to enter additional information into the SMS. Other examples of suitable transmissions are email paper and instant messaging IM . With these the sender may not need the subject field as the sender can include the payment reason within the body of the transmission media. Depending on the transmission type the link may be sent electronically or by postal service such as part of a paper invoice or note.

After the link is transmitted and received by the sender the sender access the link at step . Access can be by clicking on or selecting the link copying and pasting the link into an Internet browser re typing the link into an Internet browser or any other suitable means. For example if the link is included in an SMS message email or IM message the sender may simply tap on the link with a finger on a mobile device such as an iPad or iPhone or click on the link with a mouse on a PC to access the link and open a new page based on information contained in the link. If the link was transmitted on paper or other non electronic media such that the link is not live the sender can re type the link into an Internet browser to open the page associated with the link.

When the link is accessed at step the sender is directed to a payment page of the payment provider identified in the link. Other information in the link may also be included such as the recipient of the payment the amount and the subject of the payment. The payment page may request the user to enter certain information including the payment amount if not specified in the link. If the sender wishes to make the requested payment to the user or recipient the sender enters the requested information at step .

The requested information may depend on whether the sender has an account with the payment provider. If the sender has an account the sender may be requested to enter the sender s password and log into the account. The sender s email username or other identifier may be automatically filled in based on information transmitted from the sender s device e.g. mobile device or PC or the sender may be asked to enter that information as well.

If the sender does not have an account the sender may be requested to enter information required to make the payment through an accepted funding source. In one embodiment the requested information includes one or more of the following the sender s first name last name funding source account number such as a credit card number or bank account number type of funding source expiration date of the funding source security code of the funding source and the sender s billing address. The sender may also have the option of creating an account with the payment provider at the same time. In that case the user may also be asked to provide a password and possibly a user name or other identifier.

The requested information above for the situation where the sender has an account with the payment provider and when the sender does not have an account with the payment provider may be presented on the same page when the sender access the payment link. For example requested log in information may be on a right side of the page and requested funding source information may be on a left side of the page. This enables the sender to select a different funding source even if the sender has an account with the payment provider.

After the appropriate information is entered at step the information is processed by the payment provider. In one example the payment provider obtains account information of the recipient through the recipient s information contained in the link e.g. the recipient s email address. With this information the payment provider is able to transfer funds into the recipient s account. The payment provider also determines whether to approve payment from the sender such as checking whether sufficient funds exist in the sender s designated funding source and the accuracy of the sender s entered information. If the payment is approved the payment provider transfers funds from the sender s funding source and credits the amount to the recipient s account. Thus at step the recipient receives the requested amount.

The payment provider also receives information about the sender at step . Note that sender information may be received at the same time that the link information is received at step and thus steps and need not be sequential. The sender information can be obtained from the device used by the sender to access the payment link. For example if the sender accesses the link through a PC information from the PC associated with the sender such as the IP address or cookies is transmitted to the payment provider. Similarly if the sender access the link through a smart phone information such as the phone number associated with the sender is received by the payment provider. If for some reason sender information is not received or the received information is not correct such as if the sender is using another person s computing device the sender may correct that information on the payment provider site.

Once the payment provider has received the sender information a determination is made at step whether the sender has an account with the payment provider. For example using the sender information such as a phone number or email address the payment provider can check whether there is an associated account. If there is no account the payment provider requests the sender to enter information about a funding source at step . This may include selecting an acceptable funding instrument such as a type of credit card a debit card a bank account etc. and filling out information such as account number billing address name phone number expiration date security code etc. for the selected funding instrument. The payment provider may also ask the sender if the sender wants to open an account with the payment provider. If yes the sender may then be requested to enter information to create an account such as a user name and password. The request for account creation and entering information can also be performed after the payment has been processed.

If as determined at step the sender has an account with the payment provider the payment provider asks the sender to enter log in information at step such as a user name and password or other account identifiers. The user name may already appear in the request if the payment provider can provide that through the received sender information. If the user name is not for the sender such as if the sender is using another person s device to make the payment the sender can enter the sender s user name in the appropriate field.

After the requested information is entered at steps or the payment provider processes the information at step . If the information was from step the payment provider may verify that the entered information is associated with a valid funding instrument. If the payment provider cannot authenticate the information the payment provider may request the sender to re enter all or part of the information or select another funding instrument. If the information was from step the payment provider may verify that the entered password matches with the user name associated with the account. If not the payment provider may ask the sender to re enter the password. In one embodiment when the payment provider cannot confirm the information either from step or after a specific number of attempts the process ends and the sender is notified to try again later. In other embodiments the sender is given an unlimited number of attempts to either enter valid funding source information or valid log in information. If the payment amount was not part of the information contained in the link the payment provider may request the sender enter a payment amount and a currency type e.g. U.S. dollars Euros etc.

Next at step a determination is made whether the recipient has an account with the payment provider. This can be made using the recipient information contained in the link received at step . In one embodiment the link contains an email address of the recipient which the payment provider may use to determine whether an account exists corresponding to the email. If no account exists the recipient may be asked to create an account such as by the payment provider sending a notification to the recipient at the email address provided in the payment link. The email may include a message that there is a payment for the recipient and to collect the payment the recipient needs to log into the recipient s account with the payment provider or create an account with the payment provider.

If there is no account for the recipient the recipient is asked to create an account in order to receive payment. In one embodiment a request is made to enter a user name and password along with any other needed information such as name address phone number email address and financial instrument information where funds can be transferred from or deposited into . The recipient may be asked to re enter the user name and password. If the requested information is accepted by the payment provider an account is created at step .

Once the recipient has an account with the payment provider the payment provider processes the payment at step . For example the payment provider debits the payment amount from the sender s account or selected funding source and credits the recipient s account with the payment provider. The recipient and or the sender may be notified such as by email that the payment has been processed.

In other embodiments when the sender has been authenticated by the payment provider a notification is sent to the intended recipient that the recipient has a payment waiting. The notification which may be sent via email text or other means can also include the payment amount and the sender s name or other information. In order to retrieve the payment the recipient may be requested to log into the recipient s account with the payment provider such as clicking or otherwise selecting a link in the notification and entering a password and possibly a user name. If the recipient does not have an account the notification may ask the recipient to create an account with the payment provider to retrieve the payment. Again a link may be provided so that the recipient is directed to the payment provider site to enter requested information for creating an account.

Thus using the process described above a recipient of money can quickly and easily create a payment link that is easily communicated to an intended sender of the money. This can be within a social or business context. For example two friends may be at a restaurant eating lunch but one person does not have enough money or the ability to pay for his portion of the meal or one person decides it is easier to pay without having the server split the check. In this situation the person paying recipient can create a payment link at any time and transmit the link to the other person sender for payment of the other person s portion of the meal. The payment link can also be used by merchants to create invoices for goods or services delivered but not yet paid for. The merchant can then send the link as an invoice to the person who purchased the goods or services for payment.

Using the payment link also allows the sender to quickly and easily make a payment. As discussed above the sender can receive a payment request instantaneously and at any time through a delivery by email text IM etc. The sender then just needs to access the link which may be as simple as clicking or tapping the link to be directed to a payment page of the payment provider. Next the sender logs into the account and makes the payment. Thus the process may be as simple as clicking on a link and typing in a password.

Furthermore as discussed above the sender is not even required to have an account with the payment provider because other funding sources can be used to make the payment.

First user device second user device merchant server and payment service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

First user device and second user device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the two user devices may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPad from Apple 

First user device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit first user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet. First user device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by first user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application as further described herein.

First user device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to first user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow first user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as create and or access payment links as discussed above. First user device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of first user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate first user with a particular account maintained by the payment service provider as further described herein. A communications application with associated interfaces enables first user device to communicate within system .

Second user device may have similar applications and modules as first user device but is used in this example for creating and sending a payment link to request money from first user . Second user device may also include one or more browser applications and one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit second user to browse information and perform tasks over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet and communicate with merchant server to receive and send information about purchases made through merchant server .

Second user device may further include other applications such as security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email text IM and voice applications that allow second user to communicate through network and create and send payment links through network . Second user device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of second user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication e.g. the phone number associated with second user device . Identifiers may be used by a payment service provider to associate second user with a particular account maintained by the payment service provider.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by an on line merchant offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received over network . Merchant server includes a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by first user . Accordingly merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of first user device and second user device . In one embodiment first user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to view various products or services identified in database .

Merchant server also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by first user of goods or services identified by marketplace application . Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from first user through payment service provider server over network . For example checkout application may receive and process a payment confirmation from payment service provider server as well as transmit transaction information to the payment provider and receive information from the payment provider e.g. a transaction ID . Checkout application may also enable payment through second user device in communication with the payment provider by using a payment link as described herein.

Payment service provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment between first user second user and the operator of merchant server . In this regard payment service provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with first user device second user device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services by first user of first user device or payment between first user device and second user device .

Payment service provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts 480 each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by first user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of first user during a transaction with checkout application to track and manage purchases made by users.

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive information from a user device and or merchant server for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from a payment link and the sender of the payment link e.g. first user to determine the recipient and sender of funds and the amount of funds to be transferred. Other funding sources may also be processed through this application. Payment application may be further configured to determine the existence of accounts for first user and or second user as well as create new accounts if necessary.

Note that in different embodiments system merchant server is not needed as first user device and second user device may communicate directly with each other and with payment service provider server to process payment requests and transfers between first user and second user . One example is if second user lends money to first user such as buying dinner for first user . Second user device can then create and transmit a payment link to first user device first user device then access the link and communicates with payment service provider server which then processes the payment request and effects a payment from first user to second user .

In the above embodiments transmission and receipt of the payment link is through electronic means. However as discussed herein the payment link can also be transmitted on paper through conventional non electronic means such as via the postal service or other delivery service. Thus in these embodiments the first user may receive the payment link on a hard copy and then enter the payment link into first user device to continue the payment process with payment service provider server .

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard creating the payment link selecting one or more buttons or links accessing the payment link etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display. An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server. In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM and a static storage component e.g. ROM . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example payment links of different formats and fields have been described but they are not exhaustive. Depending on the payment provider other syntax formats and or fields may be used to create the payment link. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

