---

title: Method and apparatus for modeling memristor devices
abstract: A method and apparatus for modeling the characteristics of memristor devices. The invention provides methods and an apparatus for accurately characterizing the linear and non-linear Lissajous current-voltage behavior of actual memristor devices and incorporating such behavior into the resultant model. The invention produces a model that is adaptable to large scale memristor device simulations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08249838&OS=08249838&RS=08249838
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08249838
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100106
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of a provisional application Ser. No. 61 284 146 filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Nov. 17 2009.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

The memristor device postulated in 1971 by Leon Chua 1 as the fourth basic circuit element has received much attention in the research community since the publication of Strukov s 2008 paper titled The missing memristor found 2 . The memristor name is a contraction for memory resistor 1 because that is exactly its function to remember its history 3 . The memristor is a two terminal passive device whose resistance state depends on its previous state and present electrical biasing conditions. And combined with transistors in a hybrid chip memristors could radically improve the performance of digital circuits without the necessity to shrink transistors 3 . Given their two terminal structural simplicity and electronic passivity the applications for memristor technology range from non volatile memory instant on computers reconfigurable electronics and neuromorphic computing 4 3 . According to Chua 4 the memristor behaves like a linear resistor with memory but exhibits many interesting nonlinear characteristics and several electronic models have been presented to describe the electrical behavior of memristor devices 1 4 2 5 6 . However given that memristor devices are not commercially available good physical model to hardware methods have not yet been reported m the published literature. Therefore methods for accurate memristor modeling is an impending need.

Referring to depicts the typical DC electrical Lissajous I V curve characteristic response of a memristor device measured under test with a sinusoidal input of 0.5 V volts amplitude and 100 Hz frequency. From the figure we can clearly observe that the memristor device toggles between two states high and low conductivity. As the memristor device transitions from a low conductivity state to a high conductivity state it exhibits highly nonlinear diode like characteristics at approximately 0.35 and 0.2 V threshold voltages respectively. that switched the device from a low conductivity state to a high conductivity state and vice versa. The threshold voltage analogy is used here to describe the voltage biasing region where nonlinear behavior occurs.

Referring to the most basic mathematical definition of a memristor is that of a current controlled device for circuit analysis in the generalized class of nonlinear dynamical systems called memristive systems described by the equations

In order to describe the velocity at which w increases. meaning the rate at which the memristor device is becoming less resistive Equation 2 can be described as follows

Utilizing Ohm s law that states that the voltage across a resistor is directly proportional to the resistance times the current through the conductor we can obtain from equations 3 and 4 the following relationship

Additional improvements have been proposed to the aforementioned memristor model to include of non linear boundary conditions 5 6 . The non linear boundary condition proposed is of the form

Attempts have been made to perform a model fit utilizing both the linear 2 and nonlinear 5 6 memristor models. Referring to shows prior art memristor model to hardware correlation fit utilizing the memristor linear model 2 . From the figure we can observe that the linear model does not accurately capture the high memristor nonlinearities located at approximately the 0.35 and 0.2 V threshold voltages. In particular and still referring to there appear to be two regions of memristor operation between 0.35 to 0.05 V and between 0.05 and 0.2 V which the linear memristor model fails to model accurately. describes the theoretical I V curves for a memristor device with realistic dopant drift modeled by window functions obtained by Joglekar et. al 6 . From the figure it is clear that the prior art nonlinear model results do not accurately describe the actual DC electrical Lissajous I V characteristic behavior of physical memristor device hardware.

It is an object of the present invention to provide accurate memristor device models that replicate both the linear and non linear resistance characteristics of actual memristors.

It is another object of the present invention then to provide a method and apparatus for identifying memristor transition regions from high resistance to low resistance and then to generate curve fitting parameters that replicate these transition regions in the resultant model.

Briefly stated the present invention provides a method and apparatus for modeling the characteristics of memristor devices. The invention provides methods and an apparatus for accurately characterizing the linear and non linear Lissajous current voltage behavior of actual memristor devices and incorporating such behavior into the resultant model. The invention produces a model that is adaptable to large scale memristor device simulations.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

The present invention provides a method for modeling memristor electrical characterstics which correlate accurately with actual memristor hardware behavior. Over the course of developing the present invention attempts were made to fit linear and nonlinear models to fit memristor hardware with little success primarily because these prior art published models don t represent accurately the electrical characteristic behavior of memristor dence hardware. Therefore the present invention developed the steps for achieving a compact model that accurately represents the electrical behavior of chalcogenide based memristors. The models produced by the present invention consists of a threshold memristor model similar to those utilized in state of the art CMOS modeling and simulation as for example the well known BSIM4.6.4 from the University of California Berkeley. These types of compact models have proven very valuable within the microelectronics industry given their straight forward singled valued mathematical formulations that make modeling and simulation within very large scale integrated circuits fast reliable and accurate. Common CMOS transistors operate within various regions of operation cutoff ohmic and saturation. Similarly. the present invention provided a method for developing a memristor model that operates within three regions off nonlinear and on. Therefore the goal of the present invention is to develop a compact memristor model that describes the electrical behavior of memristor devices and it is simple and accurate to enable large scale device simulations.

All hardware memristor devices which were measured as the basis for development of the present invention modeling were fabricated and tested at Boise State University and the fabrication details have been described elsewhere 7 . The physical structure of the memristor devices characterized was composed of three thin films of Ag SnSe and Ge2Se3 sandwiched between tungsten metal contacts. All electrical DC measurements were performed with an Agilent B 1500A HP4145B semiconductor parameter analyzer and Micromanipulator 6200 microprobe station equipped with temperature controllable wafer chuck and tungsten probe W tips Micromanipulator size 7A at room temperature. The tested memristor devices were 180 nm in diameter with 80 um 80 um tungsten pads for electrical contact to the top and bottom electrodes. All of the electrical measurements performed and recorded see by the semiconductor parameter analyzer can be input to a computer over a standard data bus in real time or stored onto other recording media or removable memory device for further processing by specialized modeling software which prescribes the necessary computer executed steps. The specialized software will generate a model corresponding to the measured and recorded parameters of the particular memristor under test. Of course models corresponding to the recorded measured parameters can be either automatically or manually plotted see .

For nonlinear modeling if one considers the actual memristor regions of operation where the nonlinear behavior dominates below or above the threshold voltages 0.35 and 0.2 V respectively see prior art models see do not replicate measure hardware see for either p 1 and p 10 see . Given the lack of measured and model correlation for both linear and nonlinear memristor prior art models the present invention has developed an empirical memristor modeling method that can be employed to accurately capture the DC electrical Lissajous I V curve characteristic behavior of memristor devices.

Referring to one important characteristic of memristor devices is the fact that their present behavior is dependent on their past state. Therefore the present invention models electronic characteristic behavior as being dependent on the previous memristor state requiring the need for determining a set of initial conditions. For example R t T represents the state or the memristor device at an initial time T. Rand Rmust be determined see as they represent final states of the memristor device. Assuming that the memristor device initial state corresponds to R t 0 Rand that in time an input potential voltage greater than T see is present across the device and which is also a parameter requiring determination the present invention models the behavior of the memristor device as follows

On the other hand if an input potential voltage lower than Tis present across the Device the present invention models the behavior of the memristor device as follows 

Otherwise the state of the memristor device remains unchanged and therefore the present state of the memristor equals that of its previous resistance state the present invention sets R t R t t . It is important to highlight the diode like behavior exhibited by memristor devices driven by their internal highly nonlinear transport process. In fact a closer examination of equations 9 and 10 will reveal that the model produced by the present invention resembles that of semiconductor diode devices which provided the inspiration to develop the present invention s method for modeling memristors. Referring to describes the memristor hardware electrical characterization results to the model fit for the prior art linear memristor model and the memristor models produced by the present invention. From one can observe that the present invention s model is able to describe all regions of DC electrical operation of the memristor device including the high and low conductivity regions and the nonlinear regions . The present invention s model fitting parameters which achieve the model fit displayed in correspond to R 160 R 1200 T 0.2 T 0.35 K 5.e6 K 20 K 4e6 K 20 an input sinusoidal voltage of 0.5 V amplitude and 100 Hz frequency and the initial condition that the state of the memristor R. Referring to displays the present invention s time dependent model results versus the measured results for the memristor device hardware showing a good model to hardware correlation in the time domain inclusive of nonlinear voltage versus current regions see being depicted here in the corresponding regions . of a current versus time plot.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled m the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

