---

title: Grid-based precision aim system and method for disrupting suspect objects
abstract: A system and method for disrupting at least one component of a suspect object is provided. The system has a source for passing radiation through the suspect object, a grid board positionable adjacent the suspect object (the grid board having a plurality of grid areas, the radiation from the source passing through the grid board), a screen for receiving the radiation passing through the suspect object and generating at least one image, a weapon for deploying a discharge, and a targeting unit for displaying the image of the suspect object and aiming the weapon according to a disruption point on the displayed image and deploying the discharge into the suspect object to disable the suspect object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08746561&OS=08746561&RS=08746561
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08746561
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101223
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

Applicant has also filed U.S. Non Provisional Application No. 12 912 151 on Oct. 26 2010 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DISRUPTING SUSPECT OBJECTS and U.S. Non Provisional Application No. 12 568 774 on Sep. 29 2009 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DISRUPTING COMPONENTS OF EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.

The present invention relates to techniques for disrupting a suspect object. More particularly the present invention relates to techniques for investigating targeting disabling and or otherwise disrupting a suspect object such as an explosive device.

Suspect objects are items that potentially pose a significant threat to persons and or property. A suspect object may be for example a luggage box or other container that is suspected of containing dangerous materials e.g. explosives volatile materials toxins etc. that may cause injury and or damage. Techniques have been developed to detect suspect objects as described for example in U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0 025 280. It may be preferable to investigate the contents of the suspect object without touching the object. Techniques have been developed to position or image an object as described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 359 961 6 281 507 7 066 645 7 110 502 and Ser. No. 2008 0 112 541.

In cases where the suspect object is determined to pose a threat it is often necessary to de activate neutralize or otherwise disable the suspect object or one or more of its components to render the suspect object inoperable. Attempts have been made to disable explosive devices by deploying projectiles or substances into explosive devices as described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 046 055 4 169 403 4 779 511 4 957 027 5 210 368 5 515 767 6 298 763 6 644 166 and 7 228 778 or by disabling electrical components within the explosive device as described in U.S. patent application Nos. 4 062 112 2009 0 189 091 or 2008 0 254 738 .

Despite the development of techniques for identifying or disabling suspect objects there remains a need for advanced techniques for effectively disrupting suspect objects. It may be desirable to investigate the suspect object preferably without contacting the suspect object. Such investigation preferably provides a highly accurate view of the contents of the suspect object. It may be further desirable to disable the suspect object preferably from a distance. Such disablement is preferably accurately aimed at key components of the suspect object. Preferably such capabilities involve one or more of the following among others compact operability portability easy assembly and use transportability accuracy operation in difficult conditions simple operation disruption of select components preferably without affecting other components preventing suspect object and or component operation visually inspecting the explosive device and or its contents manual and or automatic operation etc.

Presently preferred embodiments of the invention are shown in the above identified figures and described in detail below.

As shown in the investigation unit includes a source a screen and a grid board . The source is positioned for passing radiation through the suspect object and creating images of the suspect object onto the screen e.g. X ray images . The source may be a conventional radiation source capable of emitting sufficient radiation through the suspect object to generate an image on screen . One or more sources may be positioned about the object for passing radiation therethrough to create the desired images. The source s may be mounted on a tripod at a desired height as shown or placed on the floor. An adjuster may be provided to adjust the position of the source on the tripod thereby adjusting the direction of a cone of radiation emitted therefrom. Preferably the source is positioned to optimize the passage of radiation through the object to enhance image generation therefrom. The screen may be a conventional imager capable of receiving the radiation from the source and generating an image therefrom. The screen may be supported behind the suspect object .

The grid board is positionable about the suspect object preferably between the suspect object and the source . The grid board is preferably an x ray transparent board positionable within an exposure path of the source . The grid board may be of a material such as plastic composite or other material which is sufficiently transparent to permit the passage of radiation therethrough. A support may be provided to support the grid board in position. The grid board defines a plurality of individual grid areas shown as squares that may be used for targeting. Each grid area may be separately identified and located relative to the screen as will be described further herein.

Markers or fiducials M M Mand Mare positioned about the grid board to identify locations in the generated images. These markers may be for example tungsten members positioned at known locations about the grid board . As radiation passes through the grid board the grid board is preferably invisible while the markers are visible on images generated on screen as will be described further herein. The marker s may comprise identifying information e.g. capital letters A B etc. built into each marker which show up as images of the letters A B etc. on screen .

The grid board and markers of the investigation unit preferably has known geometries about a grid board coordinate system centered at position Pat a fixed point on grid board . The position Pof the grid board of each of the grid areas on the grid board and position Pat a fixed point on source may be determined from the positions of the markers as will be described further herein. A vector Vis defined from the position Pof source through the object and to a grid point Pat a given grid area . One or more sources may be provided as needed to generate one or more vectors Vto define the geometry at a given grid area . The markers may be located in images on screen to define the geometry of the investigation unit . The geometry of the configuration may be used to determine positions of the components of the system and the suspect object .

As shown in the weapon unit has a weapon a laser and a discharge . Optionally once imaging is complete the source may be removed from tripod and the weapon may be installed on the tripod in place of the source . The weapon is supported on the tripod and adjuster and is positionable thereon for releasing the discharge to disable the suspect object typically after the desired images have been taken using the source . This alternate configuration allows the use of a single tripod in a single location for supporting the source and the weapon .

Since the weapon is positioned in the same location as the source a position of the weapon may be the same position Pof the source . Once the disruption point D and the grid area corresponding to the disruption point D is identified the weapon may be positioned on the tripod and aligned to the grid area using the laser . The laser may be positioned in the weapon and removed for firing. A discharge e.g. a bullet may be inserted into the weapon and the weapon may then be fired at the selected grid area and the discharge deployed therefrom. The weapon may be aligned with the grid board to aim the weapon such that the discharge may be deployed to a disruption point D in a selected grid on the suspect object as will be described further herein.

Referring still to the targeting unit is schematically depicted as being linked to the investigation unit and the weapon unit . A communication hub may be provided for communication between the investigation unit the weapon unit and or the targeting unit . The targeting unit includes a database a processor and controllers . The targeting unit may provide image acquisition image enhancement video tracking real time laser pose estimation system component locators image measurement display updates aiming instructions and other capabilities. A carrying case may optionally be provided for transporting one or more components.

Data received from the investigation unit weapon unit and or other sources e.g. historical data user inputs etc. may be stored in database . The processor may use the data to generate images perform calculations generate reports provide commands etc. Other devices such as power supplies may also be provided to enhance operation of the targeting unit .

The processor includes an investigation tool a targeting tool and an analysis tool . The investigation tool may provide images of the suspect object and its contents and the targeting tool may aim the weapon unit at a selected disruption point D of the suspect object . The analysis tool may be used alone or with the investigation tool and or the targeting tool to assist in performing various operations such as performing calculations generating reports generating commands and or providing feedback as will be described more fully herein. Commands generated by the processor may be used to activate controller s to operate the disruption system as will be described further herein.

The investigation tool may be used to compute the coordinates of the source grid board weapon and or the suspect object . These coordinates may then be related to the coordinates of the grid board and or individual grid areas thereof. The investigation tool may be used in conjunction with the analysis tool to define one or more disruption points D of the suspect object .

As shown in the targeting unit may also be linked to the weapon unit for aiming the weapon at the disruption point D of the suspect object . The targeting tool may compute geometries of the weapon unit to define a configuration for aiming the weapon at the disruption point D. The targeting tool receives information from the disruption system to determine positioning of the components of the investigation unit the contents of the suspect object and the disruption point D. The targeting tool may then be used to align the laser and weapon to the disruption point s D defined by the investigation tool . Preferably real time targeting instructions for aiming the weapon at the desired disruption point s D are provided by the targeting tool .

Controller s of the targeting unit may be linked to the investigation unit and the targeting unit for selective activation thereof. The controller may provide for example real time adjustment of the source screen grid board weapon laser and or other components as desired. Optionally some or all commands from the targeting unit or other sources may be automatically generated for automatic adjustment and or manual adjustments may be made by operators receiving instructions from the controller . The controller may be activated based on the outputs generated by the investigation tool targeting tool and or analysis tool . For example the weapon mount may be linked to controller to position the weapon in alignment with the disruption point D.

The targeting unit may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Embodiments may take the form of a computer program embodied in any medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. The embodiments may be provided as a computer program product or software that may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer system or other electronic device s to perform a process.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form such as software processing application readable by a machine such as a computer . The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Embodiments may further be embodied in an electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signal e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or wireline wireless or other communications medium. Further it should be appreciated that the embodiments may take the form of hand calculations and or operator comparisons. To this end the operator and or engineer s may receive manipulate catalog and store the data from the systems tools and or units in order to perform tasks depicted in the disruption systems described herein.

The targeting unit of may be used to receive information perform necessary calculations analyze information and or otherwise process the information to achieve the desired operation. The targeting unit is linked to the investigation tool for generating images of the suspect object such as those shown in and A B. The investigation tool preferably uses state of the art computer vision and position registration technologies to generate and or refine images from the data received from the investigation unit and or other sources . Preferably the investigation tool provides 2D images of the suspect object and 2D points therein as shown in .

The markers MA MC ML and MN on grid board are detected by the investigation unit and identified on the images as shown in . The location of each of the markers as well as other geometry of the investigation unit as described with respect to may be used to determine the position Pof the sources . As shown in a user may select screen regions corresponding to a given marker for identification. As shown in these figures screen regions R R Rand Rhave been selected.

Each of these screen regions may be enlarged zoomed in and shown in full screen images as shown in . The user may move a cursor to a location of the marker on the full screen image and click the screen location for a given screen point. The selected screen point for each marker may be correlated to known geometries on the grid board to identify locations. For example by identifying screen locations for each marker M M Mand M a correlation may be made between pixel locations on screen and the known physical location of each marker. One or more regions and corresponding markers may be selected. Once selected the markers may be used to identify the location of components of the suspect object and or components of the system .

As shown in markers M M Mand Mhave been selected and identified on screen image . With the markers identified on the screen image the user may then select a component on the suspect object to target. The user moves the cursor to a desired component displayed on display and selects an ID point on the image corresponding to the desired component in image . The investigation unit will use the known geometries of the markers to determine the location of the ID point on the suspect object .

The location of the ID point may be used to define the disruption point D on the suspect object and correlate to a grid area on the grid board as pictorially depicted in . The screen image may display the grid board and the selected grid area correlating to the selected disruption point D of the ID point on the image

Referring to A and B the weapon unit is co located with the coordinate system S of the source and therefore has the same coordinate system therewith. The geometry of the weapon unit may be determined from the known positions Pof the source which is also Pof the weapon . This information may be used to locate the weapon in three dimensional space and to aim the weapon at the disruption point D on the suspect object.

The laser may emit a laser point Palignable with the disruption point D at position P. The laser point Pis preferably visible on the grid board so that it may be moved to align with the disruption point D on screen as shown in . The laser may be manually aligned to a selected grid area on the grid board at position P. Once the laser is aligned such that Pis on disruption point D the weapon is aligned such that vector V is aligned to release discharge to hit the disruption point D. Once aligned the laser may be removed and a discharge inserted. The weapon may then be activated to deploy the discharge . Preferably weapon is aligned sufficiently to deploy the discharge into the suspect object at the discharge point D to disable the operation thereof. The weapon may be re aligned to one or more disruption points D.

FIGS. B and B show detailed views of portions of the weapon . The weapon may be a conventional weapon such as a PAN disrupter T disrupter FIGS. B B or other weapon capable of deploying a discharge into the suspect object to disable operation thereof. The weapon includes a firing shaft a weapon block and a disruptor sleeve . The weapon block is positionable on the weapon mount . The weapon block is positionable on the firing shaft with the disruptor sleeve therebetween. The sleeve is configured to absorb recoil of the weapon upon release of the discharge to prevent potential damage to the components of the weapon unit . Preferably the weapon block and tripod remain stationary during firing with the firing shaft moving within sleeve . A breech cap may be positioned at a non discharging end of the firing shaft . A muzzle protector or may be positioned on a discharge end of the firing shaft as shown in FIGS. B and B respectively.

The firing shaft may be hollow for deploying the discharge therefrom. The discharge may be a conventional projectile deployable by the weapon into the suspect object . In such cases the weapon may be a gun pressurized tube or other mechanism capable of deploying the discharge into the suspect object. Alternatively the discharge may be for example an electrical signal emitted by the weapon into the suspect object for disabling the electrical activation thereof.

As shown in laser is removably positioned on the firing shaft during alignment. The laser may be used to provide a laser line visible on grid for alignment with the disruption point D. The laser may be a conventional laser capable of displaying a red dot on the grid board to facilitate positioning. The laser may be used to align with selected grid areas of the grid board and position the laser relative to those features. The laser preferably is used to assist in positioning of the weapon unit relative to the grid board . Once aligned the laser may be removed and the discharge inserted for deployment.

Various features such as alignment features magnets or other devices may be provided to secure the components of the weapon unit in place to enhance precision and or repeatability.

The method may further involve processing data concerning the disruption system processing data from the investigation and or weapon units analyzing data from the investigation and or weapon units performing calibrations controlling the investigation and or weapon units and or selectively adjusting a position of the investigation and or weapon units. The steps may be performed in any order and repeated as desired.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that various modifications and changes may be made in the preferred and alternative embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. For example the disruption system described herein may have one or more components of the investigation weapon and or target units positionable about one or more suspect objects. One or more stands extenders mounts relay units or other devices may be provided to position various components of the disruption system about the suspect object. Preferably the devices are adjustable to permit selective positioning of the components. One or more disruption systems may be provided about one or more suspect objects. Preferably the components of the disruption system are portable adjustable and movable to provide various configurations as needed to conform to a given situation and to effectively disrupt the suspect object.

This description is intended for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of this invention should be determined only by the language of the claims that follow. The term comprising within the claims is intended to mean including at least such that the recited listing of elements in a claim are an open group. A an and other singular terms are intended to include the plural forms thereof unless specifically excluded.

