---

title: Electronic document provision to an online meeting
abstract: A system and method are presented for providing electronic documents to online meeting participants. The method schedules a first online meeting between network-connected computer devices. A meeting server establishes a repository for the first online meeting. The meeting server receives an electronically formatted document sent to a first communication address assigned to the first online meeting repository, and stores the document in the first online meeting repository. A first computer device is able to log into the meeting server and access the document from the first online meeting repository at a time prior to, during, or after the first online meeting. Likewise, the meeting server is able to store a document received prior to, during, or after the meeting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461834&OS=09461834&RS=09461834
owner: Sharp Laboratories of America, Inc.
number: 09461834
owner_city: Camas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100422
---
This invention generally relates to online and web conferencing meetings and more particularly to a means of requesting content in a live meeting from a non meeting participant and sharing a document for presentation in the online meeting.

Generally the problem being addressed is the sharing of an electronic document in an online meeting e.g. web conference when the user has neither an application to share the document via an application sharing mode or a web interface to upload the document for sharing e.g. web enabled phone or multifunctional peripheral MFP scan to email . There are a number of well known online meeting services that fail to adequately address this problem. These meeting services include Cisco WebEx Citrix GotoMeeting Microsoft LiveMeeting Adobe Connect IBM Lotus Sametime and DimDim.

This method does not provide a solution for importing a document into an existing scheduled meeting and does not provide a solution for importing a document into a live meeting by either a non participant or from a source that is not logged into the meeting service. The collaboration session is not a live simultaneous meeting. Instead the document is stored as a shared document at an online document repository for collaboration by multiple users.

Another method for email based collaboration is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 182 080 System method and computer program product for storage of a plurality of documents within a single file. In this method a file container is constructed of a plurality of files for collaboration. An email list of collaborators is constructed and the file container and email address list are sent to a collaboration server. The collaboration server constructs a first email message addressed to the first recipient. The message includes the file container and the recipient list minus the first recipient.

The first recipient after receiving the email message opens the message and edits the files in the file container. Upon completion i.e. close message or reply to collaboration server the collaboration server constructs a second email message addressed to the next recipient in the recipient list. The message includes the edited file container and the recipient list minus the current recipient. The process is repeated until there are no recipients left.

This method does not provide a solution for importing a document into an existing scheduled meeting and does not provide a solution for importing a document into a live meeting by either a non participant or from a source that is not logged into the meeting service. The collaboration session disclosed is not a live meeting. Instead it s an offline coordinated round robin editing of a document.

In another variation of email print the printer supports a plurality of email addresses where each email address is associated with a different print option. For example booklet myprinter.com and duplex myprinter.com may tell the printer to print in booklet or duplex mode respectively. These methods do not disclose a means of where to route a document in an email message or a means for importing a document into a scheduled or live meeting.

Another method related to document collaboration via email is scanning a document into a workflow where the scanned document image is sent to the workflow via email. In this case an email address is associated with a document workflow. The user scans a document on a scanner which supports sending the scanned image data via email. The user specifies the email address of the workflow as the destination for the scanned document image.

This method is limited to routing to a predetermined fixed source i.e. named workflow . It does not disclose a means to use information in the email to find a matching source that is temporary in nature e.g. a scheduled or live meeting . Neither does it disclose a means for importing a document into a scheduled or live meeting.

Thus the conventional online meeting services require Internet connectivity regardless of solution for sharing a document in an online meeting. That is a participating device must have web access to the Internet. However the Internet may not be available if the device is a mobile device lacking Internet capability or the meeting is based on an Internet service not enabled on the mobile device. Further there may be a lack of WiFi connectivity at the user s current location or the network transfer may be limited to email ftp MFP Network Scan .

Thus a solution is required for devices with some form of WAN LAN connectivity but lacking Internet connectivity and or web browser access.

A closely related issue is the problem of obtaining content after a meeting has started live from a user owner that is not actively participating in the meeting. For example a company may be having an online meeting whose participation is restricted to senior management. During the meeting there is a need to obtain hiring data from the HR department. The participants in the meeting would therefore desire a simple way to request the HR department directly import the content into the meeting without being a participant in the meeting.

While conventional online meeting services provide methods for the host to import content into a live meeting they all have limitations in importing from non host attendees and provide no means for importing content from non participants.

The Cisco WebEx meeting service allows a host to import content into a live meeting thought a variety of means. Presentations can be directly uploaded. For a limited number of formats e.g. PDF or PowerPoint the host or attendee can upload a document to the service. The service converts the document to the WebEx presentation format which may then be rendered for display by the service. A host or attendee may also import a document from their PC by printing it to a WebEx file uploading virtual printer. This virtual printer converts the document on the host s PC to a presentation format and uploads it to the meeting service. Alternately a host can preload a document of a limited number of formats which will be automatically launched and optionally time presented when the meeting starts. Finally the host and attendees may make online notes during the meeting.

The Microsoft Live Meeting service allows a host to import content into a live meeting thought a variety of means. Direct upload for presentation for a limited number of formats PDF or MS Office formats the host or attendee can upload a document to the service. The service converts the document to the Live Meeting presentation format which may then be rendered for display by the service. Print to Share a host or attendee may import a document from their PC by printing it to a Live Meeting file uploading virtual printer. This virtual printer converts the document on the host s PC to a presentation format and uploads it to the meeting service. The host may make online notes during the meeting. The Microsoft Live Meeting service does not support preloading content.

The DimDim meeting service allows a host to import content into a live meeting thought a variety of means. Direct upload for presentation for a limited number of formats PDF or PowerPoint the host or attendee can upload a document to the service. The service converts the document to the WebEx presentation format which may then be rendered for display by the service. The DimDim meeting service does not support preloading content or online notes.

The Adobe Connect meeting service allows a host to import content into a live meeting thought a variety of means. Direct upload for presentation for a limited number of formats e.g. PDF PowerPoint Flash the host or attendee can upload a document to the service. The host may make online notes during the meeting.

None of the aforementioned solutions did provide a means to request and import content during or before a live meeting from a non participant.

It would be advantageous if a predetermined or impromptu request can be made in a live meeting to a non meeting participant for the importation of content such as documents status summaries and responses.

It would be advantageous to integrate the imported content with the meeting content and categorize the content based on the reason for the request e.g. action items .

It would be further be advantageous if the request and importation occur asynchronous to the meeting such that the content can be received and imported between periods of the live meeting when the meeting is a continuous or otherwise recurring meeting.

Disclosed herein are a system and method that expands online meeting document sharing for non Internet browsing capable devices such as 1G mobile phones or multifunctional peripherals MFPs or where Internet access to the online meeting is blocked by a firewall who otherwise have email connectivity. In a conventional operating environment an online meeting is scheduled with a meeting service. The online meeting service may be enterprise hosted or hosted by a third party service. When the meeting is scheduled or thereafter one or more attendees are requested. Each attendee has an email address associated with them. A meeting request is then sent to the email address of each attendee. Each attendee receives the email message via an email client running on a computing device such as a PC laptop or mobile device. The computing device from which the user operates the email client can additionally store or access documents and send documents as attachments via email.

When scheduling a meeting the user performs typical tasks with scheduling an Outlook meeting including 1 setting time and location 2 inviting attendees 3 selecting a room resource and 4 sending invites to the attendees. The user may also preload content for presentation in the meeting as part of the scheduling task.

The system disclosed herein additionally permits a user to email a document into a live scheduled or completed multi user multi site online meeting for presentation and collaboration. The user does this by sending the document as an email attachment to an email address associated with the live scheduled or completed online meeting. Upon receipt of the document the online meeting service may convert the document to a presentation format store the document in a meeting repository send the document to one or more meeting attendees or present the document for application sharing either at the service or remote PC .

In one aspect the user sends the document to a temporary email address associated with the online meeting. For example when the meeting is scheduled the service assigns the meeting a meeting PIN to uniquely identify the meeting. In another embodiment the user sends the document to a predefined email address associated with the meeting service and identifies the meeting within the email such as in the subject or body. In another aspect the user sends the email attachment by replying back to the email invite message sent by the meeting service. The original email message sent by the service has coded in it a meeting identifier which the meeting service can parse out when the message is sent back as a reply.

In one aspect a meeting host presenter or other meeting participant with the authority makes a request for content from a non meeting participant. For example the participant selects a menu button from the online meeting UI e.g. desktop or browser application to select or enter a non meeting participant. In one case the user can browse and select from a predetermined list of non meeting participants. Alternately the participant may enter the electronic contact address e.g. email or IM of the non meeting participant. Once the non meeting participants have been selected the participant enters additional information on what content is being requested. The online meeting service then constructs an electronic message to each selected non meeting participant for the requested content and sends the message to each non meeting participant s electronic contact address. The request for content may occur prior to a meeting content is stored in a pre meeting repository during a meeting content is stored in a launch area or after the meeting content is added to available meeting documents . The content request may also be specific to a category or activity within the meeting and the content requesting email would be further augmented to indicate the category.

Accordingly a method is presented for providing electronic documents to online meeting participants. The method schedules a first online meeting between network connected computer devices. A meeting server establishes a repository for the first online meeting. The meeting server receives an electronically formatted document sent to a first communication address assigned to the first online meeting repository and stores the document in the first online meeting repository. A first computer device is able to log into the meeting server and access the document from the first online meeting repository at a time prior to during or after the first online meeting. Likewise the meeting server is able to store a document received prior to during or after the meeting.

Additional details of the above described method and an electronic document provision system for online meetings are provided below.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to an automated computing system entity such as hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software software stored on a computer readable medium or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

The meeting server may be enabled with an application e.g. a meeting service including a sequence of software instructions stored in a computer readable memory and executed by a processor. Since the manipulation of software instructions is well known in the art these details are not shown in order to simply the figure. The meeting service is typically an online Internet or server based Intranet meeting service hosted. Generally under both scenarios the meeting server has a web service interface and the meeting scheduler interacts with the meeting server via the web service interface. In other web based programming models the meeting server would implement a REST based API interface and the meeting scheduler would interact using the REST based API interface.

The meeting server and computer devices discussed below may employ a computer system with a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor coupled to the bus for processing information. The computer system may also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor. These memories may also be referred to as a computer readable medium. The execution of the sequences of instructions contained in a computer readable medium may cause a processor to perform some of the steps associated with position calculation. Alternately these functions or some of these functions may be performed in hardware. The practical implementation of such a computer system would be well known to one with skill in the art.

As used herein the term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The meeting server may temporarily assign the first communication address exclusively associated with the first online meeting. For example the meeting server may assign the address first online meeting meeting server.com for a two week prior to the actual meeting and let the address expire two weeks after the meeting. Alternately the meeting server may establish a permanent first communication address associated with a plurality of online meetings e.g. meetings meeting server.com and assign an identifier to the first online meeting. The identifier can be a meeting PIN the Internet. Protocol IP address of a computer device participating in the first online meeting a meeting title a name designated as the first online meeting host or a URL associated with the first online meeting to name a few examples.

The meeting server stores the document in the first online meeting repository . A network connected first computer device is able to log into the meeting server and access the document from the first online meeting repository at a time prior to during or after the first online meeting. Although the first online meeting is depicted as an entity separate from the network it should be understood that such a meeting would typically be enabled using WAN and or LAN connections between participants. An online meeting is also enabled as a sequence of software instructions stored in a computer readable memory and executed by a processor in at least one of the meeting participant computer devices.

In one aspect the first computer device accesses the document while participating in the first online meeting and presents the document into the first online meeting. Alternately any of the other meeting participants such as the second computer device or the third computer device are able to access the document and present it. The computer devices may be a device with Internet access capabilities such as PCs mobile phones or personal digital assistants PDAs to name a few possible examples.

In another aspect the second computer receives an invitation to the first online meeting with the first communication address coded into the invitation and sends the document to the first communication address when accepting the invitation. By coded it is meant that the user of the second computer device may not be able to see the address in the presentation of the request but the second computer device is able to detect the embedded address with instructions to send the document to the address.

In one aspect a fourth computer device not participating in the first online meeting receives a document request from the first computer device and sends the document to the first communication address. Again the document request can be received with the first communication address coded into the request. For example the fourth computer device may be a 1G mobile phone or printer MFP or a device whose Internet access to the meeting is blocked by a firewall.

In another aspect the meeting server establishes a plurality of categories associated with the first online meeting and subsequent to receiving the document associates the document with one of the first online meeting categories. Example categories and exemplary categorization methods are presented in detail below.

The meeting server may also accept a recurring first online meeting schedule comprising a first meeting segment and a second meeting segment and receives the document requested in response to a first meeting segment action item. In one aspect the meeting server schedules the second meeting segment or sends a request to the meeting organizer to schedule the second meeting segment in response to receiving the document .

In the exemplary operating environment an online meeting is scheduled with a meeting service. The online meeting service may be enterprise hosted or hosted by a third party service. When the meeting is scheduled or thereafter one or more attendees are requested. Each attendee has an email address associated with them. A meeting request is then sent to the email address of each attendee. Each attendee receives the email message via an email client running on a computing device such as a PC laptop or mobile device. The computing device from which the user operates the email client can additionally store or access documents and send documents as attachments via email.

The meeting request typically contains information on the meeting title agenda time date and a link to access the specific meeting. Note the later is typically done as an URL hosted by the service whereby the URL additionally identifies the meeting via a unique meeting PIN and identifies the user by a unique user PIN. Below is an example 

Each attendee receives the email message via an email client e.g. MS Outlook running on a computing device such as a PC laptop or mobile device.

Using the system of a document can be emailed into a live or scheduled multi user multi site online meeting for presentation and collaboration. The user does this by sending the document as an email attachment to an email address associated with the live or scheduled online meeting. Upon receipt of the document the online meeting service may convert the document to a presentation format store the document in a meeting repository send the document to one or more meeting attendees or present the document for application sharing either at the service or remote PC .

In one aspect the user sends the document to a temporary email address associated with the online meeting. For example when the meeting is scheduled the service assigns the meeting a meeting PIN to uniquely identify the meeting. The service would then create an email account for this meeting PIN such as 

In another aspect the user sends the document to a predefined email address associated with the meeting service and identifies the meeting within the email such as in the subject or body. The meeting may be identified through a variety of means such as a meeting PIN the IP address of the presenter meeting title or meeting host.

In another aspect the user sends the email attachment by replying back to the email invite message sent by the meeting service. The original email message sent by the service has coded in it a meeting identifier which the meeting service can parse out when the message is sent back as a reply. The system of provides a means to share a document from a device that has limited capability such as one that does not have web browser capabilities but has email capability or one that does not have access to the Internet but does have email access. The system also provides a means to share a document transmitted from a peripheral device which does not have Internet capability but has email capability e.g. MFP . The system provides a means to preload documents to share in a scheduled meeting using a third party calendar program.

In another exemplary operating environment an online meeting is scheduled with a meeting service. The online meeting service may be enterprise hosted or hosted by a third party service. When scheduling a meeting the user performs typical tasks with scheduling an Outlook meeting including 1 setting time and location 2 inviting attendees 3 selecting a room resource and 4 sending invites to the attendees. The user may also preload content for presentation in the meeting as part of the scheduling task.

Each invited attendee has an email address associated with them. A meeting request is then sent to the email address of each attendee. Each attendee receives the email message via an email client running on a computing device such as a PC laptop or mobile device. The computing device from which the user operates the email client can additionally store or access documents and send documents as attachments via email.

The host starts the online meeting at the scheduled time. Once started the attendee s join the meeting. Typically the email invite to the attendee s contains an URL which when clicked automatically joins them to the meeting. Other methods of sending invites to the attendees could include IM and SMS e.g. mobile testing .

Alternately the participant may enter the electronic contact address e.g. email or IM of the non meeting participant. Once the non meeting participants have been selected the participant enters additional information on what content is being requested. The online meeting service then constructs an electronic message to each selected non meeting participant for the requested content and sends the message to each non meeting participant s electronic contact address.

When the non meeting participant is ready to send the requested content to the meeting the non meeting participant responds to the email message and adds the content as an attachment s . The original email request may contain an embedded identifier in the message which uniquely identifies the online meeting for which the request is made for. Upon receipt of the response the online meeting service parses the response and extracts the content from attachments and the unique meeting ID e.g. from subject or body . The content is then added to the online meeting associated with the unique meeting ID.

In another aspect the content request may be specific to a category or activity within the meeting. For example the request might be specific to summary information status or statements. In this case the content requesting email would be further augmented to indicate the category. For example the embedded meeting ID may be appended with a textual string indicating the category associated with the content request. In another example each content requesting email has a unique identifier which is stored in a database along with a set of actions associated with the content request.

Upon receipt of a response to a content request the meeting service determines both the specific meeting and specific category from the embedded identifier. The content is then routed to the identified meeting and processed according to the category type. For example a status category may cause the content to be added to a spreadsheet showing the status of particular staff on a project.

In another aspect the meeting is part of a series or otherwise recurring meeting. Information from one meeting segment may be carried forward to the next or otherwise subsequent meeting segment. In preparation for the next or otherwise subsequent meeting a request may be made for content that will be reviewed or otherwise processed during this next subsequent meeting. In one example the content request is part of a cross meeting action item list. In this example when a meeting segment ends the meeting participants construct an action item list of actions that need should occur before the next subsequent meeting segment. In this case the embedded identifier in the email content request would identify the action item as well as the associated meeting. When a response is received to the content request the content is added to the specific action item and the action item status is updated. The host or meeting organizer can then query or be informed on the completion status of the action item list prior to the next subsequent meeting segment. An intelligent rescheduling process may also alter the time of the next subsequent meeting segment based on the completion status of the action item list and attendee availability.

Thus the system provides a means to request content during before after an online meeting from non meeting participants. The request and response for content is asynchronous to the meeting and does not pause or otherwise disrupt the flow of the meeting. An action item list may span across continuous meetings where individuals both meeting and non meeting participants can update between meeting segments.

As noted above a user can email one or more documents into a live scheduled or completed multi user multi site online meeting for presentation and collaboration. The user does this by sending the document s as an email attachment to an email address associated with the live scheduled or completed online meeting. The documents may be of any format which is compatible with the online meeting service. For example the format may be one that can be imported and presented by the meeting service e.g. MS PowerPoint and Adobe PDF formats are importable into WebEx and DimDim . The format may be one that can be loaded into a view edit application hosted by a designated presenter and the application view can be shared with the attendee e.g. Application Sharing in WebEx . The format can be that is able to distributed and loaded by each attendee into a distributed application whereby the document presentation editing can be synchronized across the plural attendees by the distributed application.

Upon receipt of the document the online meeting service may convert the document to a presentation format. For example the document can be converted from an offline format e.g. MS PowerPoint into an online presentation format e.g. Adobe Flash format using a direct conversion process e.g. WebEx importation of MS PowerPoint . The document can be converted from an offline format e.g. MS Word to a web publishing format e.g. HTML using a print application and associated printer driver. The document can be stored in an online document repository associated with the specific meeting e.g. Google Docs .

Any means may be used by the presenter attendee and online meeting service to determine from the email message the specific meeting into which the documents are to be loaded.

The identifier may be constructed as an email address. In this case the meeting service creates a temporary unique email address specific to the meeting. Typically the temporary email address is valid until the end of the meeting and possibly some predetermined duration afterwards such as for retrieving summary or history information on the meeting. In some cases the validity of the temporary email address may be extended past a first predetermined duration such as by an authorized request or additional payment. For example the email address may be 

In another method the user constructs a new email message to send to the online meeting service. The user attaches the documents to share to the email message. The user then sends the email message with the document attachments to the online meeting service. The method may use any means for the user to identify the specific meeting to load the documents into and for the meeting service to recognize the meeting specific identifier in the user s email message.

In another aspect the user specifies the meeting identifier as part of the subject line. The meeting identifier may be a meeting PIN assigned to the meeting which may have been obtained from the email invite message or other scheduled meeting notification e.g. online . The meeting identifier may be unique identifier assigned to the meeting s host such as a meeting service social name a communication address unique to the meeting s host e.g. IP address or the title of the meeting.

Another feature of the system is that the meeting service receives the email message with the documents to share as an attachment. The meeting service may receive the email messages by any means such as those means described above.

In one aspect the meeting service has an email client that reads email messages from an email server e.g. Microsoft Exchange Server associated with the email client e.g. POP3 client . The meeting service s email client automatically reads messages sent to the email addresses associated with the meeting service. For example the email client polls the email server for new messages on a periodic basis e.g. every 30 seconds .

When the email client reads a new email message the email client parses the message to determine the unique meeting ID such as specified in the above methods . If the meeting ID cannot be identified the email client passes the email message to an error handler or to another meeting service related workflow. If the meeting ID is identified the email client determines if the email message is valid for the service. This validation may include verifying that the meeting ID is associated with a valid meeting or determining that the email sender is authorized to send a document to the meeting. Otherwise verification determines if the meeting ID has been sent from an email address associated with the host or an attendee or otherwise an authorized user of the meeting account. Or a meeting specific password can be parsed and verified.

If the request is validated the meeting service then extracts the attached documents. Each document may additionally be verified to determine if the document format is supported by service the document size does not exceed some predetermine limit to the meeting or account holder for the meeting or the document content does not contain data not allowed by the meeting service e.g. illegal content spam etc .

If the validation tests fail the meeting service may additionally send an email reply back to the email message indicating that the document s were not accepted and the reason for non acceptance.

One example of parsing an email message can be demonstrated by using the open source code OpenPOP which can be configured to be a POP3 email client. The POP3 email client can be initiated as a background thread and configured to connect to POPClient.Connect an email server e.g. MS Exchange associated with the email account of the meeting service and log into the email account POPclient.Authenticate . The POP3 email client can then periodically query the email server for new messages n POPClient.GetMessageCount msg POPClient.GetMessage 

One example of identifying a scheduled completed or live meeting from the extracted information can be demonstrated using an API interface between the email client and then meeting scheduler and using the extracted information as parameters for a SQL database query where meeting information for scheduled completed or live meetings are stored. For example each meeting could have a row entry in an SQL database with a unique identifier such as a 128 bit GUID as a primary key. The row may contain other non primary key fields relating to the meeting which could be used to identify the meeting such as the organizer name meeting title meeting time meeting location IP address of the host PC when the meeting is live.

The extracted information could then be one or more of the non primary key values which are then passed via an API call GetMeetingGUID field1 value field2 value . . . to the meeting scheduler. A single API call could handle a variety of different field combinations either by function overloading C C or encoding the field with the field value 

The meeting scheduler can then use the field value parameters to make an SQL query to return all the rows that match the criteria. For example C .Net 3.5 

The meeting service may perform one or more actions on each document extracted from the meeting service. The determination of the actions to perform may be based on any reason such as predetermined actions document type e.g. conversion vs. application sharing meeting type settings specified in the scheduled meeting settings specified in host preferences actions specified in email message e.g. command keywords .

In another aspect a user of the meeting service makes a request for content from a non meeting participant. A non meeting participant is an individual or software application represented by an electronic communication address who is not an invited attendee of the meeting. In some cases request for content from a non meeting participant is restricted to the meeting organizer. In other cases the meeting presenter s and or attendee s can make the request. In other cases the request may be made as an automated process as a result of an activity event which occurred in the setup execution or completion of the online meeting such methods will be discussed in detail below .

The request for content may be made at anytime during the lifecycle of the meeting such as when the meeting is scheduled after the meeting is scheduled but before it starts during the meeting after the meeting has ended and the meeting is archived and between meeting segments in an asynchronous recurring meeting.

When a request for content is made to a non meeting participant the online meeting service sends the request to an electronic communication address associated with the non meeting participant. In one aspect the communication address is an email address. Alternate communication addresses include an Instant Message IM address or SMS address.

Below is an example code excerpt demonstrating an implementation of constructing the content request determining the communication address of the non meeting participant and sending the request to the non meeting participant 

Upon receipt of the request at the non meeting participant s communication address the non meeting participant can provide the content by replying to the electronic message e.g. email message . The non meeting participant may provide or identify the location of the content by attaching the content as a document electronic file to the electronic message specifying the content as a text description in the message body or providing a link e.g. URL to the content in the message body.

The process may also perform additional steps such as authenticating the sender validating the content as permissible decrypting the content or encrypting the content during storage compressing and or reducing the content translating language the content to another natural language or converting the content to another electronic data format e.g. MS Word to JPEG images .

Below is an example code excerpt demonstrating an implementation of processing a reply to a request for content determining the meeting ID extracting the content and storing it in a meeting folder associated with the meeting 

In one aspect the request for content is made prior to the start of the meeting. For example the requester e.g. host logs into e.g. username password a meeting management process for the online meeting service and authenticates themselves as a user of the meeting service. The meeting service then presents to the authenticated user a UI which shows all the meetings that the user is a participant host attendee presenter etc . For example the UI may be presented as a dropdown selection box in an HTML form.

The user then selects the meeting for which they want to request content for. For example the user may select a meeting entry from the drop down list of meetings and select the button associated with the submit input type for the HTML form. Once the submit button is selected control is passed to the web page specified in the action attribute of the form tag. Below is an example 

A web page called as the action would then display the meeting information for the specific meeting and additionally display one or more action forms. One action form would be to request content for the meeting from another user. When selected the user may be presented with a form in which the user inputs the email address or name from an Address Book of the other user and a message indicating what they are requesting. When the user selects the input button with the type attribute submit then the web page specified by the form s action attribute is called.

The called web page would then take the information posted in the form and pass it to a RequestContent function that is executed on the server side. The RequestContent function would then invoke the process described earlier. Below is an example 

In another embodiment a meeting participant makes a request for content from a non meeting participant during the online live meeting. In one aspect the participant is running a meeting application which may be an online application e.g. ran within a web browser an offline application e.g. desktop application or a combination of an online and offline application where the offline application acts as a bridge to the online application.

The Request Content menu may contain at least two input fields 1 person to make request to and 2 what is being requested. In the first field the participant identifies the non meeting participant to send the request to such as a pre known person selected from an Address Book which additionally contains an electronic communication address for the person for sending the request for content message. Otherwise there may be an input field for the participant to enter the electronic communication address e.g. email of the non meeting participant. In the second field the participant enters a textual description of the content they are requesting. Alternately the participant may select a predefined textual message from a list of messages or keywords associated with the predefined messages. When completed the participant selects a Send button to send the request to the non meeting participant. When selected the meeting application sends the entered information to the meeting service. The information may be sent by any means such as a Web Service call when the application is an offline desktop application or an HTTP post when the application is an online application.

The online meeting service constructs and sends the request for content message to the identified non meeting participant. The constructed message is addressed to the non meeting participant s electronic communication address with a textual description of the request. An embedded identifier uniquely identifies the meeting to which content is submitted. The message also gives an indication of whom and optionally their role is making the request.

When the non meeting participant receives the request they may send the requested content by including the content in a reply to the electronic message requesting the content as described earlier. When the meeting service receives the replied message containing the content the meeting service extracts from the message the content and the embedded meeting identifier as described earlier. Once the content is extracted and the meeting identified the meeting service provides the content to the specified live meeting such as storing it in a content repository specific to the meeting where it is immediately selectable for viewing editing or informing the participant of the content arrival and asking if participant would want to immediate view edit the content. Otherwise a copy of the content may be sent to some or all meeting participants.

In another aspect a meeting participant makes a request for content from a non meeting participant after an online meeting has completed. The meeting participant or other authorized individual makes the request via a meeting scheduling application. The authorized individual may make the request in the same manner as described prior to a meeting except that the user is selecting a completed meeting.

Once the user has completed submitting the information for the requested content the meeting service constructs and sends an electronic message to the non meeting participant requesting the content. The request may be made in the same manner as described in making a request prior to a meeting. When the non meeting participant receives the request they may send the requested content by including the content in a reply to the electronic message requesting the content as described earlier.

When the meeting service receives the replied message containing the content the meeting service extracts from the message the content and the embedded meeting identifier as described earlier. Once the content is extracted and the meeting identified the meeting service adds the content to the recorded or otherwise persistent archive for the meeting. In one case the recorded archive contains a link to a post meeting collection of documents. A user viewing the recorded archive has the option to select viewing content in the post meeting collection. Typically the post meeting content is stored on a file system and generally grouped under a single directory folder. The database or stored recording contains a link to the directory folder containing the post meeting content.

In an alternate aspect a request for content may be further augmented as a request to a specific category or topic. For example the request may be related to a specific topic on the agenda or to a general category of information such as the participant s status on the subject being discussed. In this case the request is specific to a topic in the agenda. The meeting service allows the meeting organizer to include separate and distinguishable topic items to the agenda. For example the scheduling process may involve an introductory statement an item by item entry of topics to discus or a conclusion goal of the meeting or what s next.

In one example the above mentioned function is implemented as a web page. The web page may contain a form for inputting the above. In a simple form the introductory and conclusion statements have a single input control each while the item by item may consist of a fixed number of input controls one per item. Below is an example HTML code 

When the participant makes a request for content they may also optionally specify a topic on the agenda list to which the request is specific. For example the UI for making the content request may additionally contain a selection box which is pre populated with the agenda topics. If the participant selects a topic from the selection box the request is specific to the topic otherwise the request is general to the meeting. If the content request is specific to an agenda topic the meeting service constructs and sends the content request to another or non meeting participant in the same manner as described earlier except the embedded meeting identifier additionally contains the topic identifier. For example the selected topic may be identified by a numerical indicator of its position in the agenda and then appended to the end of the embedded meeting ID and separated by a colon 

Once a meeting starts the content in the general part is readily available for selection viewing editing . As the meeting moves through the topics the content per topic is readily available during the discussion of the topic. Otherwise the content per topic is hidden or only accessible for preview.

In another case the request for content is specific to a general category which is predetermined in the meeting service and independent of any organizer entered topics. Examples of predetermined categories may include participant s status overall project status revenue monthly quarterly etc and expenses.

Like the by topic example in this example the participant making the request may optionally select a category for a menu item. If selected the category is appended to the embedded URL. Below are some examples of a category identifier appended to a meeting identifier 

When the meeting service receives a reply to a content request in addition to the actions taken described earlier the meeting service determines if the request contains an embedded category identifier. If not the content is handled as described earlier. Otherwise the content is stored in a sub repository specific to the category of the document repository specific to the meeting.

Once a meeting starts participants with the appropriate authority may select for preview a category from a menu selection displayed on the meeting application. When selected the content stored for the category is available for preview. Additionally a presenter with the appropriate authority may select for viewing editing a from a menu selection displayed on the meeting application. When selected the content stored for the category is available for presentation and or collaborative editing. After the meeting a recorded archive of the meeting may also be searchable by category. When a category is selected in a recorded archive the content stored in the category is available for review.

In another aspect a meeting consists of plural meeting segments. Each meeting segment has a start and finish point and may occur successively asynchronously e.g. overlapping or at different locations and or with different participants. For example a development project may consist of many types of meetings over its lifespan. A recurring set of product pre planning meetings may terminate with a milestone that kicks off a development phase. A recurring set of product planning meetings may occur during the development phase. A recurring set of product development meetings may terminate with a milestone that kicks of a general release preparation phase. A recurring set of product testing QA meetings may terminate with a milestone that with first product release. A recurring set of release candidate meetings that occur until the product is released.

Generally a predetermined set of information is carried across meeting segments in a set of recurring meetings. Also a predetermined set of information is exported from one set of recurring meetings to another. In this aspect one of the items exported across meetings in a recurring set of meetings is an action item list.

When the participant selects the option Add Task a menu may appear that contains the inputs Task Title Task Owner Description of the Task and Content required for completion of the task. The participant then fills in a title description and any required content for completing the task. Additionally a task owner is selected. The task owner assignee may be a meeting or non meeting participant and may include an automated computer process. The task owner may be selected from an Address Book or manually entered along with their electronic communication address as discussed earlier for selecting non meeting participants .

At the end of the meeting segment the online meeting service processes the action item list. Each action item is given a unique identifier. The online meeting service then constructs and sends an email message or other electronic communication per action item. The email message is addressed to the electronic address of the task owner. The body of the electronic message contains the task description and required content for completion.

The task owner can then respond to the action item status update request with the message body containing a response to the status of the action item list the message body containing a keyword indicating the completion status and attachments for any required content.

Upon receipt of the reply to the action item task email the online meeting service email client extracts the embedded meeting identifier e.g. 1234567890abcdefg and action item task identifier e.g. 098765tyu extracts the completion status keyword in the message body e.g. Completed extracts the remainder of the message body as the task status description and extracts the required content.

Once the above information is extracted the online meeting service updates the action item status for the specific action item meeting. The service locates the action item record in the database for the meeting where the action item ID is the primary key and the meeting ID is a secondary key linking the action item record to a specific meeting record. The meeting service updates the completion field of the action item record adds the textual description to the task status field and stores content in the document repository in a subfolder designated for action items. Links are included in the action item record to the stored required content.

In another aspect the requester of the content sets an importance level on receiving the content. Additionally the requestor may set a timeframe to receive the content. Alternately an automated process may set the importance level timeframe based for example on the category type.

The system may also send email reminders for the content to the non meeting participant. The frequency of the email reminders may be based on the importance level. For unimportant content no reminders may be sent. For important content a reminder may be sent on the day the content is required. For urgent content a reminder may be sent on the day it is required and 30 minutes before the content is required.

In another case the importance level may be used to determine how to handle the content if it arrives outside of the expected timeframe i.e. late . Unimportance content arriving after meeting may be added to the meeting archive. Important content arriving after the meeting may be added to the meeting archive and a notification sent to the meeting organizer. Urgent content arriving after the meeting may be added to the meeting archive and a Meet Now meeting may be initiated with the Organizer. A Meet Now notification can also be sent to meeting s previous attendees.

Step schedules a first online meeting between network connected computer devices. In Step a meeting server establishes a repository for the first online meeting. In Step the meeting server receives an electronically formatted document sent to a first communication address assigned to the first online meeting repository. As noted above the document may be received before during or after the first online meeting. Step stores the document in the first online meeting repository. In Step a first computer device logs into the meeting server and in Step the first computer device accesses the document from the first online meeting repository.

As noted above the document can be accessed at a time prior to during and after the first online meeting. In one aspect the first computer device accessing the document Step while participating in the first online meeting and in Step the first computer device presents the document into the first online meeting. Alternately a second computer device accessing the document while participating in the first online meeting and the second computer device presents the document into the first online meeting in Step .

In another aspect Step receives the document prior to beginning the first online meeting as follows. In Step a second computer device receives an invitation to the first online meeting with the first communication address coded into the invitation. In Step the second computer device sends the document to the first communication address when accepting the invitation. In one variation Step includes the first computer device sending a document request to a second computer device not participating in the first online meeting. This might be the case if the second computer device does not have access to the first online meeting. For example the second computer device may have email communication capabilities but not have Internet access or access to the first online meeting is blocked by a firewall.

For example in Step the first computer device sends the document request with the first communication address coded into the request and in step the second computer device sends the document to the first communication address when responding to the document request. In another variation the first computer device may send the document request of Step while participating in the first online meeting. In yet another variation Step includes sending a document request reminder to the second computer device if the document is not received within a predetermined period of time.

In another aspect the second computer device receives either a document request or an invitation to the first online meeting in Step and in Step sends the document to the first communication address with an electronically formatted note including comments related to the document. Step stores the document and the note with a link to the note and Step accesses the document and the note.

In one aspect receiving the document sent to the first communication address in Step includes the meeting server temporarily assigning the first communication address exclusively associated with the first online meeting. For example the first communication address may be a particular email address. Alternately the meeting server receives the document with the following substeps. In Step the meeting server establishes a permanent first communication e.g. email address associated with a plurality of online meetings. In Step the meeting server assigns an identifier to the first online meeting such as a meeting PIN the Internet Protocol IP address of a computer device participating in the first online meeting a meeting title a name designated as the first online meeting host or a URL associated with the first online meeting.

In one aspect establishing the repository for the first online meeting in Step includes the meeting server establishing a plurality of categories associated with the first online meeting. Then subsequent to receiving the document in Step the meeting server associates the document with one of the first online meeting categories in Step . Step may also include the meeting server performing an operation on a document request returned with the received document such as parsing a document request for keywords associated with categories or recognizing an embedded category identifier in the document request.

In another aspect scheduling the first online meeting in Step may include scheduling a recurring first online meeting comprising a first meeting segment and a second meeting segment. Then receiving the document sent to the first communication address in step includes receiving a document requested in response to a first meeting segment action item. In a related aspect Step may schedule the second meeting segment in response to receiving the document.

A system and method have been presented for provisioning electronic documents to an online meeting. Examples of particular communication formats and organization structures have been used to illustrate the invention. However the invention is not limited to just these examples. Other variations and embodiments of the invention will occur to those skilled in the art.

