---

title: Method and system for authenticating online transactions
abstract: The present invention generally relates to authenticating online transactions, and more specifically, to method and system for determining a potentially fraudulent online transaction request based on a risk parameter associated with a user in a networking platform such as, a social networking platform. The method comprises receiving an online transaction request from a user. Thereafter, determining the risk parameter of the user based on one or more profile parameters associated with the user or one or more peer users associated with the user in the community. Based on the risk parameter of the user the online transaction request of the user is authenticated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09070146&OS=09070146&RS=09070146
owner: Playspan Inc.
number: 09070146
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100204
---
The present invention generally relates to authenticating online transactions and more specifically to a method and system for determining a potentially fraudulent online transaction request based on profile parameters associated with a user and one or more of user s associations in a networking platform such as a social networking platform.

Generally a current trend in companies offering social networking application over the internet is to create networking platforms that allow third party entities to develop application on those networking platforms. In this manner the companies offering social networking application over the internet utilize diversity and skills of many third party entities to create applications that benefit users of the networking platform and enhance the value of the social networking application as a whole. These applications created by the third party entities are software applications performing a certain task within an environment and structure of the networking platform. The applications include a software utility a user entertainment application a game a communication tool a monitoring agent and many others. Example of popular and prominent companies offering social networking application over the internet may include but not limited to Facebook MySpace Bebo Hi5 and Orkut . Some examples of popular applications that reside on networking platform offered by Facebook may include but not limited to Scratch and Win by Backstage Technologies Texas Hold em Poker by Zynga and Armies by FrozenBear . More often than not these networking platforms allow these applications to leverage the information hosted by the networking platform. The information includes user data networking platform data and others.

The monetization methods adopted by the third party entities include subscription fees advertising sponsorship direct payments payment for offers and many others. For an example the third party entity may charge a small amount of subscription fee from the users for using their application. In another example the third party entity may charge the users on a pay per use basis i.e. the users pay a fee every time the users uses the applications. In another example the third party entity may charge the user for virtual goods i.e. digital items that the users can utilize within the third party application. An example of such a digital item may be a type of sword in a gaming application that a user purchases. This sword may bestow additional skills powers and abilities to the user within the gaming application that are not otherwise available to the users. Another example of digital items may include but not limited to a self expression item a decorative item such as a clothing for an avatar to wear in a gaming application a decoration or a property that an avatar may own in the gaming application. Therefore there exists a need for a system to enable the users to make payment for these applications.

Further the users accessing these applications may commit fraud and thus the online transaction request may be a fraudulent transaction. For example fraud may take a form of a credit card chargeback a reversal of payment through a payment provider or a default of a check or funds. In an example a user may commit a fraud by accessing and playing a paid game and thereafter requesting a refund pretending a misuse of their credit card by malicious users for purchasing the paid game. In another instance a user may commit a fraud by deliberately using stolen illegitimate or hacked data pertaining to credit cards or interne banking with the intent of profiting from the fraud. Therefore there is a need for a method and system that enables safe online transaction between the companies offering social networking platform the third party applications and the users.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and are symbolic and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions or number of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention.

As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the present invention which can be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of the present invention.

The terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically. The terms program software application and the like as used herein are defined as a sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system. A program computer program or software application may include a subroutine a function a procedure an object method an object implementation an executable application an applet a servlet a source code an object code a shared library dynamic load library and or other sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system.

Before describing in detail embodiments that are in accordance with the present invention it should be observed that the embodiments reside primarily in combinations of method steps and apparatus components related to method and system for authenticating online transactions. Accordingly the apparatus components and method steps have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.

In this document relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention described herein may be comprised of one or more conventional transaction clients and unique stored program instructions that control the one or more transaction clients to implement in conjunction with certain non transaction client circuits some most or all of the functions of a method for transaction authenticating system. The non transaction client circuits may include but not limited to a radio receiver a radio transmitter signal drivers clock circuits power source circuits user input devices computer processors computers servers databases and cloud computing devices. As such these functions may be interpreted as steps of methods for authenticating online transactions. Alternatively some or all functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the two approaches could be used. Thus methods and means for these functions have been described herein. Further it is expected that one of ordinary skill notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by for example available time current technology and economic considerations when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions and programs and ICs with minimal experimentation.

Generally speaking pursuant to various embodiments the present invention provides transaction authenticating system. The method includes receiving an online transaction request from a user. Thereafter a risk parameter of the user is determined based on one or more profile parameters associated with one or more of the user and a peer user associated with the user in a community. Subsequently the online transaction request is authenticated at least in part based on the risk parameter associated with the user.

Communication network may include for example but are not limited to Internet Wide Area Network WAN Local Area Network LAN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Broadband network Wireless Interoperability Microwave Access WiMAX communication network 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems UMTS Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB network terrestrial digital TV radio and short range radio. Users may use one or more computing devices not shown in the for sending the transaction request to online merchant . Examples of a computing device may include but not limited to a cell phone a laptop a computer an e book a Personal Digital Assistant PDA or any other wireless or wired device capable of connecting to online merchant over the communication network .

Upon receiving the online transaction request from users online merchant may verify whether the online transaction request is a potentially fraudulent or a genuine online transaction request. Based on this verification process online merchant may deny or accept the online transaction request received from user .

At step an online transaction request is received from a user. For example online merchant receives a request for one or more transactions from users . Thereafter a risk parameter associated with the user is determined based on one or more profile parameters associated with the user at step . In an instance online merchant analyzes a history of transaction data pertaining to all the transaction requests from users to identify correlations between profile parameters and a likelihood of the users committing fraud. Thereafter this correlation may be used for determining risk parameters associated with users . The profile parameters may be obtained from one or more networking platforms where users have an account.

A profile parameter of the one or more profile parameters may be associated with the user or a peer user associated with the user in a community such as a social networking community. The peer user may include but not limited to friends colleagues and relatives. The profile parameter may include but not limited to an activity age an association membership a book a self declared preference a comment a current or former employer a current or former job position a city a club membership a degree major a degree minor an education level family members fan pages a gender a geographic location a group membership a hobby a hometown an interest a job title a marital status a music a movie an occupation a number of community connections a number of friends a number of recommendations from the community connections a number of photos photos political views religions views a page membership a refund score a relationship status a sport and a television show.

The risk parameter may be a numerical value indicating a level of trustworthiness associated with the user. However it will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the risk parameter may be indicated in any other form. For example if a correlation is identified in transaction data that suggests higher education levels are indicative of trustworthy purchases with very low rates of default users may have one hundred associations and all the associations are educated with at least a Bachelors degree or above. In this case a potential risk of fraud associated with users may be low. Thus it may be concluded that it is unlikely that users may not commit any fraud while performing an online transaction with online merchant .

In an embodiment of the invention the risk parameter may be determined by the online merchant. For example online merchant may determine the risk parameter based on the one or more profile parameters. In this case online merchant may communicate with a networking platform such as a social networking platform associated with users over communication network in order to obtain the one or more profile parameters. Alternatively a networking platform may determine a risk parameter associated with the user beforehand using the one or more profile parameters associated with the user. In this case the networking platform may send the risk parameter of the user to the online merchant upon receiving a request from the online merchant.

The networking platform may determine risk parameters of all the users having an account with the networking platform beforehand. The networking platform may store the risk parameters of all the users in a database. The database may be integrated within the networking platform. Alternatively the database may be external to the networking platform. The networking platform may update the database on a periodic basis. Thereafter the networking platform may permit the online merchant to access the database. The online merchant may be authenticated by the networking platform before granting access to the database.

While determining the risk parameter associated with the user the genuineness of a profile of the user may be determined. The genuineness of a user profile indicates whether the user profile is real or fake. Often users create fake profiles within a networking platform such as a social networking platform with the intentions to commit fraud. Therefore the data associated with such user profiles is not legitimate or complete as compared to real or genuine user profiles. These fake profiles often may not have data or may have less data or incomplete data preferences. In addition these fake profiles may not have friends or may have very less number of friends. In such a scenario more weight may be assigned to a particular profile parameter as compared to other profile parameters while determining the genuineness of the user profile and the risk parameter. For example a profile parameter such as number of friends may be assigned more weight as genuine users invest a considerable amount of time in establishing their profiles real friends and their data preferences. In an instance a user may have a huge number of friends and most of the friends may have committed fraud at some point of time. In this case the odds of the user committing fraud may be high. Conversely if most of the user s friends have a history of legitimate transactions then the odds of the user being trustworthy may be high. Therefore the user s social network is an indication of the user s peer group and these social networks often behave in similar manners.

In another example a data related to usage of a social networking platform or any application in the social networking application by the user may be used to determine the genuineness of the profile and the risk parameter associated with the user. The usage data may include but not limited to a date of an account creation frequency of the account access last login date and time frequency of access of a gaming application and a level of play inside the gaming application. Thus if the user frequently accesses his account on a periodic basis then the user is less likely to commit a fraud. Further a user frequently engaging himself with the gaming application for a longer period is also less likely to commit a fraud.

In an embodiment of the invention one or more criteria may be employed in determining the risk parameter of the user based on the one or more profile parameters. The one or more criteria may be employed by the networking platform the online merchant or any other third party evaluators. For example in a scenario the one or more criteria may include but not limited to sub dividing a profile parameter at different levels assigning weight to each sub divided level of the profile parameter comparing a profile parameter of a user with the sub divided level of the profile parameter assigning a weight to a profile parameter of the user based on comparison collating the weights of the profile parameters and averaging the weight of all the profile parameters.

For example a profile parameter such as education may be sub divided at the following levels a Post Doctoral degree a Master s degree a Bachelor s degree an Undergraduate degree and below Undergraduate degree. Thereafter a weight may be assigned to individual sub divided level of the profile parameter education. The weight may be assigned on a scale of 1 to 10. For example a Post Doctoral degree may be assigned a weight of 10 while a Doctoral degree may be assigned a weight of 9. Similarly a Master s degree may be assigned a weight of 7 a Bachelor s degree may be assigned a weight of 6 a Undergraduate degree may be assigned a weight of 5 and below Undergraduate may be assigned a weight of 0.

In another example a profile parameter such as marital status may be sub divided at the following levels married single i.e. never married separated divorced unknown i.e. user may have declined to reveal the marital status . Thereafter a weight may be assigned to individual sub divided level of the profile parameter the marital status. The weight may be assigned on a scale of 1 to 10. For example married may be assigned a weight of 10 while a single i.e. never married may be assigned a weight of 8. Similarly a separated user may be assigned a weight of 6 a divorced may be assigned a weight of 4 and an unknown i.e. user may have declined to reveal the marital status may be assigned a weight of 0.

In another instance a profile parameter such as a geographic location may be sub divided at the following levels a geographic location a geographic location a geographic location and a geographic location . The geographic location may have reported zero crime rates the geographic location may have lower crime rates the geographic location may have moderate crime rates whereas the geographic location may have higher crime rates. Thereafter a weight may be assigned to these geographic locations. The weight may be assigned on a scale of 1 to 10. For example the geographic location may be assigned a weight of 10 while the geographic location may be assigned a weight of 8. Similarly the geographic location may be assigned a weight of 4 whereas the geographic location may be assigned a weight of 0. It will also be apparent to person skilled in the art that the one or more profile parameters may be assigned weights in any other manner other than as described in the above examples.

The process of determining the risk parameter of the user based on the profile parameters using the one or more criteria is now explained by way of an example. For example user is educated with a Doctoral degree is married and resides in a geographic location that falls under the category of the geographic location . Whereas user is educated below undergraduate degree is divorced and resides in a geographic location that falls under the category of the geographic location . The profile parameters of user and user are compared with the sub divided levels of the profile parameters. Thereafter based on comparison the profile parameters of user and are assigned weights. In this scenario the cumulative weight of the profile parameters of user is 29 whereas for user is 4. It may be determined that the risk parameter of user is lower whereas for user is higher. Therefore it may be determined that user is more likely to commit fraud while performing online transactions.

In another scenario a profile parameter such as a refund score may be used to determine the risk parameter of the user. The refund score may be determined based on a refund statistics of the user. The refund statistics is associated with refunding of one of the real goods the virtual goods the service and the currency to the online merchant. For example a refund statistics indicate the value of currency purchased against the value of currency returned to the online merchant. Alternatively the refund statistics may indicate a probability of the user returning goods obtained from the online merchant if the user does not require the goods. A lower refund score may denote that user is trustworthy.

For example user may request a purchase of a virtual currency in exchange for a real currency worth 10 where as user may request a purchase of a virtual currency in exchange for a real currency worth 50. However user may have a history of refunding 90 of the virtual currency purchased from online merchant whereas in the past user may have never requested a refund from the online merchant. In such a scenario it may be determined that user have a high refund score whereas the user have a zero refund score. In this scenario the risk parameter of the user is high whereas for user it is low. Therefore it is deemed that user is less trustworthy based on the risk parameter of user .

Once the risk parameter of the user is determined the online transaction request of the user is authenticated based at least in part of the risk parameter at step . The user is then partially or fully allowed or denied the transaction with the online merchant based on this authentication process. Alternatively the user may be allowed a particular level of transaction with the online merchant based on the risk parameter associated with the user. This is explained in detail in conjunction with .

As depicted in once the risk parameter of the user is obtained the risk parameter is compared with one or more predefined risk score levels at step . A predefined risk score level indicates a level of risk associated with the user. In an embodiment of the invention the online merchant compares the risk parameter of the user with the one or more predefined risk score levels. In a scenario the one or more predefined risk score levels may be defined by the online merchant. During the comparison process the online merchant identifies that the risk parameter falls within a predefined risk score level of the one or more predefined risk score levels.

Alternatively the one or more predefined risk score levels may be defined by the networking platform. In this case the networking platform may identify whether the risk parameter fall within a predefined score level of the one or more predefined risk score levels. Thereafter the networking platform communicates the predefined risk score level associated with the risk parameter to the online merchant.

Each predefined risk score level of the one or more predefined risk score levels may have restrictions and privileges associated with that level. These restrictions and privileges not only indicate certain transaction constraints but also indicate the level of transaction authorization trustworthiness between the user and online merchant. The restrictions and privileges associated with a predefined risk score level may be defined by the online merchant. Alternatively the restrictions and privileges associated with the predefined risk score level may be defined by the networking platform such as a social networking platform.

For example one or more risk score levels include risk score level risk score level and risk score level . For the risk score level online merchant may not entertain any online transaction request from user . Whereas for the risk score level online merchant may limit the maximum amount of currency that can be transacted by users to online merchant as 10. Further for the risk score level online merchant may specify the maximum amount of currency that can be transacted by users to online merchant should not exceed 100.

Based on the predefined risk score level of the risk parameter at step the online merchant determines whether the online transaction request is a potentially fraudulent online transaction request. Thereafter the online merchant may allow or deny the user from transacting with the online merchant.

For example users having an account with one or more networking platforms requests for an online transaction with online merchant . It may so happen that the user may have a risk parameter of 15. Online merchant compares the risk parameter of users with five predefined risk score levels. Thus the five predefined risk score levels include a level a level a level a level and a level . The predefined risk score levels such as level level level level and level correspond to risk parameter value ranges such as 1 20 21 40 41 60 61 80 and 81 100 respectively. Online merchant determines that users falls under the category of risk score level . Thereafter online merchant checks restrictions and privileges associated with the risk score level and subsequently denies the online transaction request of the users . In this manner the online merchant is able to determine the potentially fraudulent users beforehand thereby averting the potential business risk associated with transaction.

The user may send an online payment transaction request to a third party payment provider. The online payment transaction request may include but not limited to buying selling transferring returning and refunding of a currency. The currency may be one of a real currency and a virtual currency. In a scenario the third party payment provider may enable the user to exchange a virtual currency for a real currency. For this the user may access a third party payment gateway for transferring the real currency to the third party payment provider. Examples of the third party payment gateway may include but not limited to VISA Master or Maestro . Thereafter the third party payment provider may provide an amount of virtual currency equivalent to an amount of real currency received through the third party payment gateway to the user.

In an embodiment of the invention in addition to having an account with the networking platform the user may have an account with the third party payment provider. The third party payment provider may enable the user to access the account. The user may access the account to access the account details. The account details may include but not limited to balance information and log information. Examples of the log information may include but not limited to a transaction log and a login log.

In this embodiment when the user exchanges a virtual currency for a real currency with the third party payment provider an amount of virtual currency equivalent to an amount of real currency received through the third party payment gateway is deposited into the account of the user.

Upon receiving the online transaction request from user the third party payment provider may determine a risk parameter associated with user at step . The risk parameter of user may be determined based on one or more profile parameters associated with the user. The third party payment provider may obtain the one or more profile parameters from the networking platform. The one or more profile parameters may be associated with the user or one or more associations of the user in the networking platform. The process of determining the risk parameter from the one or more profile parameters is explained in detail in conjunction with .

In a scenario the third party payment provider may use a profile parameter associated such as a refund score of the user to determine the risk parameter of the user. The third party payment provider may employ the process of determining the risk parameter from refund score explained in detail in conjunction with . Thereafter at step the third party payment provider may authenticate the online payment transaction request of the user based at least in part on the risk parameter associated with user.

Thereafter the networking platform communicates the one or more profile parameters associated with the user to the third party payment provider at step . The one or more profile parameters may be transferred by the networking platform upon receiving a request from the third party payment provider. The third party payment provider may send such a request upon receiving the online payment transaction request from the user.

Based on the predefined risk score level of the risk parameter at step the third party payment provider determines whether the online payment transaction request is a potentially fraudulent online payment transaction request. Thereafter the third party payment provider may allow or deny the user from transacting with the third party payment provider.

Turning now to which illustrates a system for authenticating online transaction requests in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown in system includes a processor and a memory . Processor interacts with memory for authenticating one or more online transaction requests from a user. In an embodiment of the invention the user may request an online transaction with the online merchant. The user may have an account with networking platform. In the networking platform the user may have one or more peer users associated with the user. The user and the one or more peer users may have one or more profiles associated with their account with the networking platform. The profiles may have one or more profile parameters associated with the profiles. These profile parameters may be stored in memory .

Processor receives the online transaction request from the user. The online transaction request is explained in detail in conjunction with . Upon receiving the online transaction request processor communicates with memory for accessing the one or more profile parameters stored therein. In a scenario processor communicates with the networking platform for accessing the one or more profile parameters. In this case memory may be integrated within the networking platform. Once processor obtains the one or more profile parameters processor processes the one or more profile parameters in order to determine the risk parameter of the user. The process of determining the risk parameter of the user is described in detail in conjunction with . The risk parameter indicates a level of trustworthiness associated with the user.

In an embodiment of the invention processor may determine a refund score based on a refund statistics associated with one the user and a peer user associated with the user in the community. The refund statistics is associated with refunding of the goods services and currency to the online merchant by the user or other users associated with the user. Thus the user and each user associated with the user may have a corresponding refund score. The refund score may be a profile parameter of the one or more profile parameters stored in memory . In an embodiment of the invention the refund score may be stored as a profile parameter in the networking platform. Thereafter processor may determine the risk parameter of the user based on the refund score. The process of determining the risk parameter based on the refund score is explained in detail in conjunction with .

Processor compares the risk parameter of the user with one or more predefined risk score levels. The processes of comparing the risk parameter with one or more predefined risk score levels is explained in detail in conjunction with . The user is then categorized based on the risk score level of the risk parameter. In an embodiment of the invention the data associated with the predefined risk score levels may be stored in memory . Upon comparison processor determines whether the online transaction request from the user is a potentially fraudulent request based on the risk parameter of the user. Thereafter processor authenticates the online transaction request from the user.

After authenticating the online transaction request from the user processor authorizes the online transaction request. The authorization of the online transaction request is performed based on a set of transaction constraints associated with the authenticated online transaction request. The set of transaction constraints may include but not limited to restrictions and privileges associated with the risk score level described earlier in the disclosure. These set of transaction constraints indicate a level of trustworthiness of transaction authorized to user. Based on risk score level category of the user and subsequent restrictions and privileges associated with that risk score level processor authorizes the online transaction request. This is explained in detail in conjunction with .

Turning now to a block diagram showing authentication of an online transaction request in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention. Environment includes a networking platform and users . Users such as a user and a user may use one or more computing devices not shown in for connecting to networking platform over a communication network not shown in .

One or more computing devices enable users to connect to networking platform through the communication network. The computing device communicates with the communication network through various technologies such as Universal Serial Bus USB Port Global System for Mobile communication GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wide Area Network WAN Local Area Network LAN Wireless Interoperability Microwave Access WiMAX Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems UMTS or General Packet Radio Service GPRS .

Networking platform enables interactive or non interactive communication with users . Networking platform interfaces with the communication network for communicating with users . Networking platform interfaces with communication network by using one or more communication protocols. Examples of the one or more communication protocols include but are not limited to network protocols such as Internet protocol IP transport protocols such as transmission control protocol TCP and user datagram protocol UDP and application protocols such as session initiation protocol SIP H.323 real time transport protocol RTP and real time streaming protocol RTSP .

Environment further includes one or more applications such as an application and an application . One or more applications may be developed by third party entities. Third party entities may include but not limited to a company and an organization. Networking platform may allow one or more applications developed by the third party entities to be deployed on networking platform . Networking platform may be for example but not limited to a software platform a hardware platform or a combination of the software platform and the hardware platform. One or more applications are software applications and may include but not limited to a virtual good a digital item an entertainment a game or a media.

Environment further includes a third party payment provider . Third party payment provider may include but not limited to a company and an organization. Third party payment provider may be integrated with networking platform . Third party payment provider facilitates a transaction between networking platform users and third party entities.

During operation networking platform may allow users to access one or more applications . For instance user may be allowed to access a software application i.e. a digital item that user may utilize. An example of such a digital item may be a type of sword in a gaming software application that user purchases. The sword confers user with additional skills powers and abilities inside of the gaming software application that are not otherwise available to other users. Further examples of digital items may include but not limited to a self expression items a decorative items such as clothing for an avatar to wear in the gaming software application a decorations or a property that an avatar may own in the gaming software application.

Subsequently the third party entities may charge users a fee towards services offered to users . The third party entities may have the sole discretion to charge the fee for the services offered to users . In a scenario the third party entities may charge a onetime subscription fee from users for accessing one or more applications hosted on networking platform . Alternatively the third party entities may charge users on a pay per use basis i.e. users needs to pay a fee every time users accesses one or more applications . Thus to access one or more applications hosted on networking platform users may send an online transaction request to the third party entities.

In order to facilitate the online transaction between users and the third party entities networking platform may allow third party payment provider to integrate within networking platform . More specifically users may send the online transaction request such as a payment request to the third party entities for accessing one or more applications through third party payment provider . Users may pay the third party entities by transferring a desired amount of currency to the third party entities. The currency may be one or more of a virtual currency a real currency or a combination of both. Third party payment provider authenticates the online transaction request and thereafter allows or denies the online transaction request of user . The process of authenticating the online transaction request is explained in detail in conjunction with and .

For example user may access application developed by a third party entity by paying the required fee. The required fee may be paid by user in the form of a virtual currency or a real currency. In this case user may request third party payment provider to transfer a required amount of virtual currency to third party entity for accessing application . Whereas to make a payment using the real currency user may transfer the required amount of real currency to the third party entity through a third party payment gateway.

In an embodiment of the invention networking platform users and the third party entities may have an account with third party payment provider . Account details of these accounts may be stored in database . Networking platform users and the third party entities may access their accounts in third party payment provider using API . Users may send online transaction request to access one or more applications developed by the third party entities. Users may connect to third party payment provider using API to send such an online transaction request. In response to receiving the online transaction request the third party entities may request fee from users . Thereafter users may request third party payment provider to transfer a certain amount of currency corresponding to the required fee to the third party entities. Payment processor receives the request from the user. Thereafter payment processor checks database to gather details associated with accounts of users . These details may include but not limited to name balance transaction log login history and risk parameters. Payment processor then processes or declines the currency transfer request of users based on one or more details of the accounts of users such as a risk score level associated with users 

Networking platform facilitates the online transaction between users and the third party entities. More specifically users may send the online transaction request such as a payment request to the third party entities for accessing applications through networking platform . Users may pay the third party entities by transferring a desired amount of currency to the third party entities. The currency may be one or more of a virtual currency a real currency or a combination of both. Networking platform authenticates the online transaction request and thereafter allows or denies the online transaction request of users . The process of authenticating the online transaction request is explained in detail in conjunction with and .

For example user may access application developed by a third party entity by paying the required fee. The required fee may be paid by user in the form of a virtual currency or a real currency. In this case user may request networking platform to transfer a required amount of virtual currency to the third party entity for accessing application . Whereas to make a payment using the real currency user may transfer the required amount of real currency to the third party entity through a third party payment gateway. Examples of the third party payment gateway may include but not limited to VISA Master or Maestro .

Various embodiments of the present invention provide method and systems for authentication online transactions. More specifically the present invention provide method and systems for determining a potentially fraudulent online transaction request based on risk parameters associated with a user in a networking platform. The method and system as disclosed herein uses one or more profile parameters associated with a user or one or more peers users associated with the user in the networking platform in determining the risk parameter.

Those skilled in the art will realize that the above recognized advantages and other advantages described herein are merely exemplary and are not meant to be a complete rendering of all of the advantages of the various embodiments of the present invention.

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments of the present invention have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The present invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

