---

title: Method and apparatus for portable self-contained node computer
abstract: A portable self-contained node apparatus establishes a connection to a host apparatus having one or more peripheral devices connected directly thereto. The node apparatus is configured to view the one or more peripheral devices while being unaware of the host apparatus, and to act as a master device interacting directly with the one or more peripheral devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09274815&OS=09274815&RS=09274815
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09274815
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100326
---
This application relates generally to computing devices and more particularly to portable node computers.

Computing devices such as personal computers laptops mobile telephones etc. have differing capabilities. For example computers are often configured to run one particular operating system such as Microsoft Windows or Mac OS. Mobile phones often have various optional features. It would be desirable to have a way of expanding the capabilities of a computing device.

In one aspect of the disclosure a portable computing apparatus comprises a processing system comprising a first operating system is configured to establish a connection to a host computing device wherein the host apparatus is configured to present itself to the node apparatus as one or more peripheral devices and wherein the node apparatus acts as a master device interacting directly with the one or more peripheral devices.

In another aspect of the disclosure an apparatus comprises means establishing a connection to a host computing device wherein the host apparatus is configured to present itself to the node apparatus as one or more peripheral devices and wherein the node apparatus acts as a master device interacting directly with the one or more peripheral devices.

In another aspect of the disclosure a method of computing using a node apparatus comprises establishing a connection to a host apparatus wherein the host apparatus is configured to present itself to the node apparatus as one or more peripheral devices and wherein the node apparatus acts as a master device interacting directly with the one or more peripheral devices.

In another aspect of the disclosure a host apparatus comprises a processing system comprising a first operating system wherein the processing system is configured to establish a connection to one or more node apparatuses and to provide virtual access to one or more peripheral devices to the one or more node apparatuses wherein the node apparatus acts as a master device interacting directly with one or more peripheral devices.

Various aspects of apparatuses and methods and the environments in which they operate will be described below. The apparatuses and methods however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the various configurations presented throughout this disclosure. Rather the various aspects of these apparatuses and methods are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the present invention to those skilled in the art. As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate various details may be presented for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the apparatuses and methods however various configurations of these apparatuses and steps of the methods may be implemented without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the various concepts presented throughout this disclosure.

Various aspects of apparatuses and methods will now be presented with reference to a communications system. As depicted in a communication system may comprise one or more node apparatuses connected to a host apparatus . Host apparatus may be connected to a network via known wired or wireless connectivity protocols.

Host apparatus may have associated therewith one or more peripheral devices . These peripheral devices may include for example a monitor display keyboard mouse printer a hard disk drive a network card and or other peripheral devices. Node apparatuses may access peripheral devices via host apparatus . That is host apparatus may present its peripheral devices to node apparatuses as though the peripheral devices are directly connected to the node apparatus . Accordingly the node apparatus acts as a master device when interacting with the peripherals. The node apparatus may not be aware of the host apparatus or any other node apparatuses connected to the host. Host apparatus may be for example a personal computer server cellular phone personal digital assistant portable gaming device monitor television mobile phone digital camera and or any other electronic device. The node apparatuses and host apparatus may be connected using any communications protocol such as for example USB Ethernet etc.

Each node apparatus may be a small self contained computing device. For example the node apparatus may be a USB fob a DIMM a compact flash card and or any other small self contained computing device. Node apparatuses may receive power from host apparatus and may also rely on the network connection and peripheral devices of host apparatus .

The processing system may be implemented using software hardware or a combination of both. By way of example the processor may be implemented with one or more or any combination of microprocessors digital signal processors DSP application specific integrated circuits ASIC microcontrollers field programmable gate arrays FPGA or other programmable logic state machines discrete gates transistor logic discrete hardware components or some other processing entity designed to perform the various functions presented throughout this disclosure. Those skilled in the art will recognize how best to implement the described functionality for the processing system depending on the particular application and the overall design constraints imposed on the overall system.

Software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions data or any combination thereof whether referred to as software firmware middleware microcode hardware description language or otherwise. Computer readable medium may include by way of example RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The computer readable medium may be embodied in a computer product. The computer product may comprise packaging materials.

In the conceptual illustration presented in the computer readable medium is shown as part of the processing system separate from the processor . However as those skilled in the art will readily appreciate the computer readable medium or any portion thereof may be external to the processing system . By way of example the computer readable medium may include a transmission line a carrier wave modulated by data and or a computer product separate from the host apparatus all which may be accessed by the processor through an interface not shown . Alternatively or in addition to the computer readable medium or any portion thereof may be integrated into the processor such as the case may be with cache and or general register files.

Transceiver may provide a transmitting and or a receiving function. The transmitting function modulates a carrier with data for transmission over the wireless medium and the receiving function demodulates a carrier received over the wireless medium to recover data. Transceiver may also provide various other functions such as RF front end processing analog digital conversion timing and frequency estimation channel estimation modulation coding scheme MCS etc.

The processor provides general processing functions including the execution of software stored on the computer readable medium . The software includes instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processing system to perform the various functions presented throughout this disclosure.

The functions and methods described herein may be implemented by various modules in the wireless device. As used in this disclosure the term modules is intended to refer to either hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. By way of example a module may be a process an object an executable a thread of execution a program an application a routine a subroutine a block of code or instructions or any other software executed by the processor or by another processing device. In this example these modules may reside in the computer readable medium which represents a single storage device multiple storage devices or other media. By way of example a module may be loaded into RAM from a larger storage device prior to execution. During execution the processor may load the module or any portion thereof into cache to increase access speed. One or more cache lines may then be loaded into a general register file for execution by the processor . When referring to the functionality of a module in software applications it will be understood that such functionality may be implemented by the processor when executing the module or any portion thereof. Computer readable medium may include for example a peripheral visualization module . This module may be configured to enable a node apparatus to establish a connection to host and to access any peripheral devices associated with host . For video for example the output of a node apparatus may appear as a window on a monitor associated with host apparatus . For networking host apparatus may act as a router for a node apparatus. Peripheral visualization module may also provide shared access to the host s clipboard and or other inter node communication services.

In some implementations the host apparatus may be a simple mobile telephone having only basic functionality. A node apparatus may be configured having stored thereon a mobile telephone operating system and one or more mobile phone applications. The node apparatus may be used to extend the functionality of the host apparatus.

As depicted in a plurality of nodes is connected to a host . Network connectivity and power may be provided to nodes by host . Each node has a processing system . As described above processing system may include one or more processors and a computer readable medium. Similarly host comprises a processing system . The functions of the plurality of modules associated with each of nodes and host may be executed by the respective processors and may reside in the respective computer readable mediums.

Network booting module may use the network connection provided by host to perform a network booting operation. Nodes and host may be configured as a distributed processing system. Host may include a distributed processing module which dispatches processing jobs to each node . Task processing module processes the assigned jobs.

In some configurations node apparatuses may be configured as micro computers. Each node apparatus may operate a particular operating system which may be different from that of the host device. This enables a single host device such as a personal computer to operate using different operating systems. For example a personal computer using the Windows operating system may have connected thereto a first node apparatus running Linux and a second node apparatus running Mac OS. A user of the personal computer can use all three operating systems on one personal computer.

Peripheral visualization module as described above with respect to enables a node apparatus to establish a connection to a host apparatus and to access the peripheral devices associated with the host apparatus. While only a single node apparatus is shown in multiple node apparatuses may be provided. The node apparatus may be unaware of the host device or other connected nodes. As such different operating systems may be used without compatibility restrictions on the hardware or software platforms of the host device.

Operating system module provides a pre configured operating system. The operating system may be for example Windows Linux Mac Unix and or any other operating system. In addition to operating as a general purpose computer as described in relation to a node apparatus may be configured as an application distribution execution and copy protection device. That is the node may be dedicated to a specific application or suite of applications. Application processing module may be provided to execute the application or suite of applications. The node may be a self contained micro computer distinct from the operating system of the host device or may rely on specific application programming interfaces APIs of the host device. A software vendor may sell applications pre installed on a node apparatus. The applications may run directly from the node apparatus when connected to a host device. This allows a user to easily transport all necessary programs and have access to those programs from any computing device. Some applications may require large amounts of data. For example financial management programs such as Quicken or Microsoft Money store large amounts of financial data. A node apparatus may be configured to encrypt and digitally sign the data and store the data in an on line data storage service.

Node apparatus may also have associated therewith a security profile module . This module may be used to set access permission for the node apparatus. For example the security profile module may indicate whether node apparatus has access to any of files or storage components of host apparatus . The security profile module may partition the node into different security domains depending on the type of process being performed by the device. For example accessing certain websites may not allow the node apparatus to access any of the host s files or directories. Security selection module included in host may be configured to detect the security profile associated with a connect node and to provide access to resources such as the file system based on the security profile.

In some implementations one or more nodes may be connected to a host and the host and node s operate in a distributed manner. As depicted at a node device may perform a network booting operation via a network connection provided by the host apparatus. As depicted at the node s may then perform one or more tasks assigned by the host device. The host device may dispatch processing jobs to the node s via the network connection.

A node device may be configured as a micro computer without any peripherals. As depicted at upon establishing a connection to a host device the node device may view the host device as one or more peripherals directly connected to the node. For example the node device may interact with a monitor connected to the host device as if the monitor were directly connected to the node. The node device may be configured with an operating system and the operating system may be different from that of a host device to which the node is connected. As depicted at the node device may execute a first operating system. The operating system may be executed in a window presented by the host device. The node device may view the window as being an actual monitor to which it is directly connected.

In some implementations a node device may be configured to run a particular application or suite of applications. Thus as depicted at the node device may execute the application or suite of applications. The node device accesses and interacts with peripheral devices associated with the host apparatus as though directly connected to the peripheral devices. Thus depending upon the application the node device when executing the application may access a window presented by the monitor a keyboard connected to the host device a mouse the host s file system etc.

According to some aspects of the invention a large amount of data may be generated when executing the application or suite of applications. As depicted at the node apparatus may encrypt and digitally sign data generated during the execution of the application or suite of applications. As depicted at the encrypted and digitally signed data may be stored at a remote storage device such as for example an online accessible storage device.

Based on the determined security profile the host device may determine which one or more peripheral devices the node is allowed virtual access to as depicted at . For example a node configured only for use with an intranet may be allowed to access the file system associated with the host. However a node device used to access hacking websites or other potentially dangerous content may be prohibited from accessing the file system.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

