---

title: Matching a usage history to a new cloud
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for identifying usage histories and end users that may benefit from being redeployed to a new cloud-based network. In particular, a new cloud can receive usage histories corresponding to end user usage in a respective set of other pre-existing clouds. In embodiments, the new cloud can determine whether the new cloud provides sufficient resources to properly host each end user recorded in the usage histories. Further, the new cloud can determine whether there is a cost benefit or other advantage for a user to move to the new cloud. In embodiments, a deployment recommendation may be sent to an administrator of the cloud associated with the desirable usage history.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08713147&OS=08713147&RS=08713147
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08713147
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101124
---
The present teachings relate to systems and methods for identifying usage histories for populating new clouds and more particularly to platforms and techniques for securing cloud users that can benefit from moving to a newly available cloud.

Cloud computing environments utilize shared resources software and information that can be provided for use by end users. For example a service level agreement SLA can be entered into between a vendor such as an independent software vendor ISV and a cloud network provider whereby the cloud network provider agrees to commit an amount of resources associated with virtual machines in the cloud network for use by end users during operation of software products and applications of the vendor. In return the cloud network provider can charge the vendor a specified rate in proportion to the amount of committed resources. Pricing may vary based on the resources used and based on the particular cloud hosting the resources among other things.

The cloud network provider provides or maintains an amount of resources in the cloud network such as server uptime persistent storage software application instantiation network performance cloud storage support response time and other elements. The operation or utilization of the resources by the end user s generates a usage history associated with the cloud network that details consumption amounts and patterns the amount charged for resource consumption and other metrics.

A user of cloud resources such as an ISV or other end user may prefer to minimize their cost of using the cloud resources. There may be several ways to do this including minimizing the price paid for high volume often used resources reducing the amount of overcapacity being paid for entering into a SLA or subscription agreement that provides discounts for bundling specified packages or configurations of resources extending the time of a subscription agreement in exchange for a discount finding discounted rates for off peak usage of specific resources using cheaper resources in place of expensive resources etc. It is typically the case however that a cloud user is unaware of the resource advantages pricing advantages and discount advantages among others that are offered or available from other clouds and particularly from new clouds that have come into existence since the user starting using its current cloud.

Therefore it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for matching a usage history of a user with the resource capabilities and pricing capabilities of a newly available cloud. In particular it may be desirable to provide systems and methods that notify cloud users who can upgrade their resource usage and or reduce their costs by moving to a newly available cloud and facilitate a move from the user s current cloud to the new cloud.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for beneficial placement of users into newly available clouds. In particular embodiments relate to platforms and techniques for analyzing usage histories in order to identify cloud users that can improve maximize and or optimize their resource usage and or cost efficiency by utilizing a new cloud instead of the cloud on which they are currently deployed. The new cloud may have a specified set of new resources and new capabilities including new pricing capabilities that are available to be utilized by for example end users. For example the new cloud may have software resources offered in a Software as a Service SaaS model and various hardware resources offered on a capacity basis. The new cloud may price usage of its various resources in a manner that differs from the pricing employed by existing clouds.

A user of an existing cloud may be motivated to reduce the cost of its current cloud resource usage gain the use of additional cloud resources for the same price or otherwise benefit from a change to the resources and or pricing provided by the user s current cloud deployment. For example a user simply may want to reduce the price it pays for cloud resource usage by 10 while maintaining its current capabilities. This is a difficult goal for a user to achieve however because a user cannot easily identify and analyze the resources and pricing available from other clouds. In particular a user typically will have no knowledge whatsoever of a new cloud that recently came into existence including no knowledge of the new cloud s resources and pricing structure.

According to embodiments a deployment component may collect a set of usage histories containing resource usage consumption data and or cost pricing data for an end user s of an existing cloud network s . The deployment component may determine or identify a usage history ies that would benefit from being run on the resources in the new cloud and or benefit from the pricing structure of the new cloud. This determination or identification may be made for example through running simulations applying models and or other analysis of the usage histories as applied to the resources and pricing associated with the new cloud. In embodiments the deployment component may generate a deployment recommendation or offer for the user s or entity ies whose usage histories indicate a benefit in switching to the new cloud versus staying deployed on its current cloud. In some embodiments the recommendation or offer may be presented via an administrator of the new cloud. In some embodiments the administrator of the new cloud may design the new cloud s resources and pricing in a manner that makes deployment to the new cloud attractive or beneficial to users of existing clouds including designs that target users having specific resource usage and or cost characteristics.

Embodiments as described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can refer to a cloud based network comprising a collection of resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As used herein a user or an end user can refer to a person customer subscriber corporation organization or other entity accessing files and or devices storing the files in the cloud. In embodiments the end user can operate or manage computer software or hardware that can access files and or devices storing the files in the cloud based network. Further as used herein an administrator of a cloud can refer to a person owner corporation organization or other entity having authoritative power to initialize oversee or otherwise manage the operation of a cloud.

As used herein the resources of a cloud can refer to software and or hardware such as for example applications programs servers device drivers storage such as hard drives virtual memory databases random access memory RAM and other memory processors multimedia cards and the like in the cloud. The resources can be accessed by users or by software or applications independent from or associated with resources of the cloud. In embodiments vendors such as ISVs can supply software resources for use with other resources in a cloud. Resources of the cloud can further refer to any communications resources such as ports channels or bandwidth provided to a virtual machine or other machine or process in the cloud. Resources can likewise include services such as Web based services deployed in the cloud for example security or identity management services and or other types of services.

As used herein optimize can be a general term that can refer to one of the best available options. In other words an optimized configuration need not represent the best possible configuration but instead can mean a preferred or desirable configuration that is among the better of the possible configurations. Further the term optimize can also mean maximize enhance improve or other term related to a providing a benefit that was not previously present especially with respect to performance and cost. Still further as used herein a simulation can refer to a projection model analysis assessment breakdown evaluation and other terms that can refer to any type of analysis of data.

A new cloud may employ technology and technique advances e.g. improved hardware and software such that new cloud offers a new set of resources and or a new set of capabilities and or a new set of pricing options in comparison to existing clouds.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the new cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the new cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine that the user desires to invoke for its intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the new cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day a quarter or a year or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on an on demand task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user desires to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their purposes or specify a predefined set of resources marketed as a certain configuration of virtual machine such as a standard configuration high memory configuration or high CPU configuration. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others. In some embodiments the user s request for resources on the new cloud may be for the same resources that the user was using on their former cloud before migrating to the new cloud . In some embodiments the user s request for resources may be generated using the user s usage history from their former cloud.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or for other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resources have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more of the set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the new cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the new cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the new cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select groups of servers in the set of resource servers that match or closely approximate the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set of resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in the set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory amounts of storage communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers shown in . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. In other embodiments system may calculate the number types and configuration of virtual machines that could potentially be instantiated when needed and keep track of the potential virtual machine data without actually instantiating any of the virtual machines in the new cloud before each one is needed. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user according to the pricing policies of new cloud . In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has migrated to new cloud and launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the network via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in a new cloud or . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or within a short period of time on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or almost constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given new cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a new cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main new cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the new cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first new cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud which may be a new cloud or an existing cloud. Further the cloud management system of the first new cloud can interface with the cloud management system of the second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In embodiments the administrator can be any person owner corporation organization or other entity having authoritative power to initialize oversee or otherwise manage the operation of a target cloud . In embodiments the administrator can manage the delivery or provisioning of software applications or other software hardware or other products or services such as products and services of one or more ISVs not shown in figures to end users accessing the new cloud . In embodiments the end users can access the set of instantiated virtual machines located in the new cloud . It should be appreciated that the administrator can enter into one or more service agreements with vendors or other entities to provide resources to end users in one or multiple clouds and or across multiple products and or product lines.

The deployment component can receive a set of usage histories from the set of existing clouds via the one or more networks . In embodiments each of the set of usage histories can comprise respective end user data regarding utilization of resources within the set of existing clouds along with pricing or cost data for the utilization. A usage history may contain captured cost or billing data along with hardware storage software and other resource consumption information and patterns for users of existing cloud on an individual and or group basis. For example as shown in existing cloud A can have an associated usage history existing cloud B can have an associated user history and so on. In embodiments the set of usage histories can comprise data related to the operation consumption and pricing of any of the resources within the set of existing clouds . For example the data can comprise any processing consumption storage execution pricing cost subscription or transfer data or any other data or metrics related to the operation or billing of any hardware software or other resources within the set of existing clouds in relation to the end users.

In some embodiments the deployment component can simulate model or otherwise analyze each of the set of usage histories with respect to resources within the new cloud such as on the set of instantiated virtual machines . For example the deployment component can compare any processing power utilization data in a received usage history data to the processing power available on a set of instantiated or potentially instantiated virtual machines . For further example the deployment component can compare any file storage utilization data in a received usage history data to the data storage available on a set of instantiated or potentially instantiated virtual machines . For yet further example the deployment component can compare any file transfer utilization data in a received usage history data to the data transfer capability on the set of instantiated or potentially instantiated virtual machines . This comparison analysis may yield a determination as to whether a new cloud offers resources sufficient to host a user on the new cloud according to the user s resource usage history. It should be appreciated that in other embodiments deployment component may use other methods to analyze usage history data with respect to the feasibility and benefits of hosting a similar quantity and type of resource usage on the new cloud .

In addition to resources deployment component may perform other analyses including comparing the cost pricing data in a received usage history data to the cost pricing structure associated with new cloud . This analysis may be done on a general basis such as with respect to an overall subscription price or with respect to the pricing of each specific resource e.g. processing power file storage data transfer etc. . The choice may depend on the billing options offered by the new cloud and the existing cloud .

In embodiments the deployment component can simulate model or otherwise analyze the billing or cost data in each of the set of usage histories with respect to billing or pricing offered in new cloud . For example the deployment component can compare the subscription price paid by a user for a specified set of resources on an existing cloud e.g. 240.00 per year for a reserved instance of one virtual machine providing 1.7 GB memory one virtual core 160 GB storage and 3 MB s I O bandwidth with the subscription pricing offered by the new cloud for a compatible set of resources e.g. 240.00 per year for a reserved instance of one virtual machine providing 2.0 GB memory one virtual core 250 GB storage and 3 MB s I O bandwidth . For another example the deployment component may compare a usage history s on demand pricing of a Linux high memory VM instance resource usage e.g. 0.50 per hour with a new cloud s pricing of Linux high memory VM instance usage e.g. 0.34 per hour . For yet another example the deployment component may compare a usage history s data transfer resources pricing e.g. 0.15 per GB of data transfer up to 10 terabytes per month and 0.11 per GB thereafter with the data transfer resource pricing offered by the new cloud e.g. 0.15 per GB up to 10 terabytes per month and 0.08 per GB thereafter .

In some embodiments discrete pricing comparisons may be analyzed in combination with a user s usage patterns to determine the overall cost of using the existing cloud versus migrating to a new cloud . For example a usage history analysis may show that a user periodically exceeds its prepaid capacity for a certain resource on an existing cloud and thus purchases on demand resource capacity on existing cloud at relatively expensive on demand prices to handle the excess. The analysis may further show that an available level of prepaid capacity of the same resource on the new cloud may be enough to handle the excess without resorting to on demand purchasing. It should be appreciated that any pricing or subscription data or other cost metrics within the usage histories can be applied and analyzed with respect to the resources and pricing of the new cloud . It should also be appreciated that in other embodiments deployment component may use other methods to analyze usage history data with respect to the feasibility and benefits of hosting a similar quantity and type of resource usage on the new cloud .

As an output the pricing comparison analysis may yield a determination as to whether a new cloud offers an improved or optimized option for a resource or set of resources in comparison to the current deployment on an existing cloud . For example the pricing comparison analysis may indicate that new cloud offers the same or a closely comparable set of resources at a lower cost in which case it would benefit a user to migrate from their existing cloud to new cloud . For another example the pricing comparison analysis may indicate that new cloud offers a better set of resources e.g. faster processor more storage etc. at the same cost in which case it would improve the user s services and experience to redeploy to the new cloud .

In embodiments the deployment component can notify the administrator of the usage history ies that it has identified that may benefit from the capabilities and or pricing available from the new cloud . In embodiments the administrator can be notified of any of the results of the analyses performed by deployment component in any way and via any data communication. Further in embodiments the deployment component can generate or provide a deployment recommendation or offer to an administrator owner or other user associated with any of the set of existing clouds . For example if the resources of the new cloud more optimally fulfill the requirements e.g. provide the same resources at a cheaper price indicated in usage history associated with existing cloud A of the set of clouds then the administrator can contact an administrator of cloud A or the user of cloud A associated with usage history in an effort to redeploy the associated user from cloud A to the new cloud . It should be appreciated that the administrator or other entity can contact an administrator or a user associated with any of the set of existing clouds or other existing clouds in any way with any type of information or offer.

Additional pricing data may be extracted from analysis of a usage history . For example by adding up the costs over four quarters of the year 60 per quarter a deployment component may determine that the pricing for a reserved basic virtual machine on an existing cloud is 240 per year. For another example referring to row in a deployment component may determine that the cost of one hour of on demand hi CPU virtual machine time is 0.50 per hour 50 divided by 100 hrs. .

As noted above deployment component may analyze a usage history for example as shown in with respect to resource pricing data for example as shown in to determine whether there are resource and or cost advantages for a user to redeploy from an old cloud to a new cloud . For example with reference to deployment component may calculate the total aggregate annual cost for reserved usage of a basic virtual machine for user as 260 60 per quarter of plus 20 to use 80 gigabytes of on demand storage during quarter of when the storage capacity included with the basic virtual machine was not enough to handle User s data storage needs. Depending on the resources used and or prepaid resource capacity exceeded during a specific time period e.g. one year other costs incurred during the time period may be aggregated to calculate the total aggregate cost. Returning to the example deployment component may analyze this 260 cost with respect to the cost of resources from the new cloud that provide at least equivalent capacity to User . In one embodiment deployment component starts the analysis by identifying resources offered by new cloud that are at least equal in capacity to the resources presently being utilized by a user. In this example User is using the reserved capacity of a basic virtual machine for one year . Deployment component may determine from usage history or from some other data source that a basic virtual machine from existing cloud is a defined set of resources consisting of 1.7 GB memory one virtual core 160 GB storage and 3 MB s I O bandwidth. Deployment component may then use this information to find an at least as good virtual machine offered by new cloud . In this example a small standard virtual machine row available from new cloud is a defined set of resources consisting of 2.0 GB memory one virtual core 250 GB storage and 3 MB s I O bandwidth. Large standard virtual machine row available from new cloud provides additional memory capacity four cores double the storage capacity and additional I O bandwidth. Thus deployment component may determine that in the arena of resource capacity either of small standard reserved virtual machine row or large standard virtual machine row may be used to advantageously replace the reserved basic virtual machine because both of them provide as much or more capacity for each resource that make up the virtual machines memory processing cores storage and I O bandwidth . Moreover either of the small standard virtual machine or the large standard virtual machine from new cloud would eliminate the need to purchase 80 additional gigabytes of on demand storage in quarter row because they both include at least 250 gigabytes of storage which is 90 gigabytes more storage than is provided by the basic virtual machine of existing cloud .

In some embodiments deployment component also analyzes cost and pricing in determining whether it is advantageous for a user to redeploy to a new cloud . Continuing the previous example deployment component may compare the pricing of small standard reserved virtual machine 240 per year row and the pricing of large standard virtual machine 910 per year row to the price User is paying for the reserved basic virtual machine which is 240 per year plus 20 in quarter for additional on demand storage for a total of 260 per year. Because a large standard virtual machine costs significantly more than User s current deployment 910 vs. 260 deployment component may not recommend that User redeploy to new cloud employing the large standard virtual machine resource set. On the other hand because the small standard virtual machine row costs 240 and eliminates the need to purchase on demand storage row deployment component may determine that it would be advantageous for User to redeploy to new cloud on the small standard virtual machine because the small standard virtual machine supplies resource capacity that is greater than User s current capacity at a lower price when the eliminated need to purchase additional on demand storage in quarter is factored in. Moreover if User should need storage beyond 250 gigabytes on demand storage is less expensive in new cloud row compared to existing cloud row .

The deployment component may perform a similar analysis for User column . For example deployment component may determine that the small hi CPU on demand virtual machine row provides a set of resources that is equivalent and that the large hi CPU on demand virtual machine row provides a set of resources that is superior to the set of resources provided by the on demand hi CPU virtual machine e.g. row of existing cloud . Continuing the analysis with respect to pricing deployment engine may not recommend redeployment of User to new cloud because there is no benefit to User . In this case the large hi CPU on demand virtual machine row of new cloud is significantly more expensive than User s current deployment 0.68 per hour versus 0.50 per hour. And the small hi CPU on demand virtual machine row costs the same 0.50 per hour without providing any extra resource capacity that User needs.

Processor can also communicate with computer readable storage medium and the optimization module to execute control logic identify usage histories that would benefit from redeployment to a new cloud as described herein provide and transmit redeployment notifications and recommendations and control the operation of virtual machines and other resources in new cloud . Other configurations of cloud management system associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

In an analysis of each the set of usage histories with respect to the resources in the new cloud is performed. The analysis may be performed using simulation projections modeling comparison evaluations or the like. In embodiments the processing and or consumption metrics as reported in the usage histories that occurred in the other existing clouds can be applied to and analyzed with respect to at least one of the resources of the new cloud to determine whether the resource s of the new cloud are sufficient to provide the capacity indicated by the processing and or consumption metrics. If the new cloud can provide the resources needed by a given usage history then the usage history may be hostable by the new cloud. In some embodiments process may also keep track of resource sets provided by the new cloud that exceed the needs of a usage history.

In process analyzes each hostable usage history in a pricing context of the new cloud. This analysis may be performed using simulation projection modeling comparison evaluations or the like. In embodiments the pricing and or cost metrics as reported in the usage histories that occurred in the other existing clouds can be applied to and analyzed with respect to at least one of the pricing structures of the new cloud to determine whether the pricing of the new cloud provides an advantage or benefit e.g. a lower price compared to the costs in the existing cloud.

In a usage history ies that would benefit from moving to the new cloud can be selected. In embodiments the new cloud would benefit a usage history if the new cloud could provide the same or superior resource capacity as indicated in the usage history for a lower or no higher a price. Further in embodiments there can be multiple usage histories that were selected as potentially benefiting from moving from their existing clouds to the new cloud.

In an administrator of a cloud e.g. the new cloud or an existing cloud can be notified of the one or more usage histories that may benefit by redeploying to the new cloud.

In a deployment recommendation or offer can be provided to for example an administrator or entity associated with the existing cloud that hosts an end user associated with a selected usage history. In embodiments the deployment recommendation can comprise an offer to the administrator or to the end user directly to redeploy to the new cloud. Further in embodiments the offer can be directed to multiple administrators or end users associated with multiple clouds having user histories that indicate it would be advantageous to migrate to the new cloud. Still further in embodiments the administrators can be any user or owner associated with the clouds or anyone who has decision making authority regarding the managing of cloud providers.

In some embodiments the deployment recommendation may contain information informing a user or administrator specifying the advantages and or improvements to be gained by moving the user s deployment to the new cloud.

Process ends at . One of ordinary skill will recognize that stages may be reordered added to deleted from or modified within process without departing from the scope of the invention. For example may be deleted from process within the scope of the invention. For another example may be replaced by an operation that automatically redeploys the user s that would benefit to the new cloud. In this embodiment process may redeploy a user if the benefit s exceeded a predetermined threshold such as a 20 increase in resource capacity with no increase in cost or the same resource capacity with a reduction in cost.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described which operate using one deployment component and associated cloud management system in embodiments one or more of deployment component and associated cloud management system and or other servers data stores and or other logic or resources can be used. Furthermore resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

