---

title: Genetic algorithm enhancement of radar system survivability
abstract: A process for enhancing radar system survivability against a threat includes the construction of multiple computational radar function chromosomes with each of the chromosomes having values for geometric configuration and operational parameters for at least one radar station emitter and at least one decoy. A genetic algorithm analysis is performed on a computer including a crossover operator and a mutation operator to determine a fitness value for multiple chromosomes against the threat. By configuring and operating the radar system based on a survivability value for the fitness value of the genetic algorithm analysis, radar system survivability against a threat is enhanced. A radar system employing genetic algorithm analysis is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08217826&OS=08217826&RS=08217826
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08217826
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101005
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates to improving radar survival against a threat and in particular to the use of a genetic algorithm to rapidly converge on radar configurations and operational parameters to improve survivability.

Air and missile defense radar systems provide early warning as to both battlefield and theater threats. A well designed air and missile defense radar system provides sufficient advance warning for ground personnel to take evasive actions interceptor aircraft or missile assets can be vectored towards the threat or electronic jamming devices employed. Owing to the effectiveness of air and missile defense radar systems against an aggressor conventional air attack doctrine includes an anti radiation missile ARM attack component to blind a defender as to an airborne threat and create air and or missile attack corridors. Even in instances where a defender retains air superiority the threat of ARM attack persists owing to growing prevalence of mobile ground fired ARM and drones deploying ARMs.

A problem with defending an air and missile radar defense system against a potential threat is the complexity of the problem. To model a radar defense system and its perceived performance against an ARM threat involves approximately 200 interdependent variables resulting in a stochastic computation that is so complex that to analyze all the valid combinations involves millions of computational runs. As a result even with high speed computational resources radar system operational optimization in the face of an evolving threat is currently so slow as to effectively be intractable. Genetic algorithms have been shown effective in optimizing peak to side lobe ratio radar ambiguity functions. T. Bucciarelli et al. Proceedings of the 8Intl. Conf. on Signal Processing Applns and Tech. Miller Freeman Vol. 2 pages 1862 1866 1997 . Genetic analysis has also been used in the identification and design of optimal teams of sensors to detect enemy radars using genetic analysis. Yilmaz et al. Evolving Sensor Suites for Enemy Radar Detection . However these past efforts have not addressed issues related to improving radar defense system survivability against ARMs.

Currently radar emitting beacon decoys are used to enhance radar survivability by presenting radar signal clutter to deceive an ARM. Typically a decoy emits operational radar like signals so as to distract or confuse an ARM. However the geometric configuration of a decoy or group of decoys in a radar system is complex. Likewise the operational conditions of a radar and the related decoys to blunt a given ARM threat is a complex problem that may evolve in real time based on the threat scenario.

Thus there exists a need to enhance configurational and operational parameters of a defense radar system against an ARM threat. There further exists a need to calculate configurational and operational parameters in an efficient way with resort to genetic analysis to maximize a fitness function for a given set of configurational and operational parameters using a survival of the fittest approach. Genetic algorithms are not known to have previously been applied to the problem of enhancing radar system survival against ARM threat.

A process for enhancing radar system survivability against a threat includes the construction of multiple computational radar function chromosomes with each of the chromosomes having values for geometric configuration and operational parameters for at least one radar station emitter and at least one decoy. A genetic algorithm analysis is performed on a computer including a crossover operator and a mutation operator to determine a fitness value for multiple chromosomes against the threat. By configuring and operating the radar system based on a survivability value for the fitness value of the genetic algorithm analysis radar system survivability against a threat is enhanced. A radar system employing genetic algorithm analysis is also provided.

The present invention has utility in providing a process for enhancing radar systems against an anti radiation missile ARM threat. A novel genetic algorithm is used with a simulation of survivability for a given chromosome to obtain configurational and operational parameters with enhanced survivability. Previous approaches have used decoys that mimic radar where survivability of the radar then depended on the location and mimicked behavior of each decoy. However the complexity of these systems is so large that a full analysis of the problem has previously been intractable.

An inventive hybrid genetic algorithm is provided that allows optimization of the operational states locations and number of radars and decoys used to enhance survivability of a radar station to an evolving threat.

In a representative example a novel hybrid genetic algorithm is designed to allow optimization of the survivability of at least one radar station emitter and at least one decoy against an anti radiation missile ARM attack. The algorithm provides configurational and operational parameters of the radar and decoy s . Optionally the number of decoys and decoy configuration relative to the actual radar station emitter is provided for design of a new station. Alternatively a decoy number decoy configurational position operational functions or combinations thereof are fixed to provide an enhanced survival chromosome for a deployed radar system. This ability to rapidly compute a chromosome of radar system parameters allows for evolution in system operation in a timeframe sufficient to counter a new threat as it develops or storage in a digital library of survivability values for a given threat. The configurations and operational parameters are determined by a novel genetic algorithm and a specialized scoring system provides feedback to the genetic algorithm as to the fitness value performance of any given chromosome of radar system configuration and operational parameters to propagate a new generation of chromosomes with operator usage to improve chromosome fitness. By way of example the flight fuse point of an ARM and survivability characteristics of a radar station emitter and decoy s are stochastically simulated to score the fitness of a tested chromosomal solution.

The results of the genetic analysis are used to propagate genes having fitness in subsequent generations of solution chromosomes to enhance the survivability of a radar and decoy s against the threat. By scoring chromosomes against different evolutionary pressures different survival enhancing chromosomes are obtained against various threats illustratively including survivability against various threat scenarios such as a ripple fired multiple missile attack survivability against a missile attack as a function of missile launch parameters and survivability against a plurality of missiles fired from various locations and commando launched ARM attack proximal to the radar system. Thus when a threat evolves a chromosome adapted to have a protective fitness value is implemented from a library of chromosomes each optimized under different evolutionary threat pressures.

As used herein a chromosome is defined as a function c x where i equals 1 . . . N where N is the dimension of the population of possible solutions x is the configurational and operational parameters of the radar system and illustratively includes values for radar emitting element failure percent decoy number decoy radiating power decoy blink and decoy activation time. Each of the configurational and operational parameter values in a chromosome is described herein synonymously as a gene.

According to the present invention an initial population of chromosomes having certain genes each individually fixed or bounded by a given range based on real world operation is scored individually to provide a fitness value against a user input threat. The bounding of values is critical to obtaining useful fitness values for radar system operation. As a counter example optimal survivability against ARM threat converges to the system being inactivated permanently. While a radar station with no operation is a valid theoretical solution in practice allowing a chromosome to converge to this solution without a radar active range is of no practical value. Chromosomes having a fitness that enhances survivability against the threat better than the fitness of other chromosomes are propagated preferentially into the next generation of chromosomes with the process repeated to iteratively evolve chromosomes with survivability against a given threat. To facilitate rapid evolution of a fitness value for a radar station configuration operational parameter chromosome genetic operators are applied during the course of the evolutionary genetic algorithm analysis to facilitate offspring inheritance of genes enhancing overall fitness. Genetic operators used in an inventive genetic algorithm analysis include a crossover operator C that binds chromosomes to generate new individuals. An example of a single homogeneous crossover operator function for a two chromosome case is provided in Formula I that leaves the progeny chromosomes of equal length as the parent chromosomes.

Another operator used to impart diversity to a chromosome population during fitness evolution is a mutation operator M. The mutation operator functions to place a given gene with a different value from within a range for the given gene or change a gene condition for example to exchange on for off . A stochastic mutation operator according to the present invention is fixed to allow real world values for a given gene. The mutation operator is applied with a user supplied probability P. Preferably the mutation operator probability is applied as a function of the rate of change in fitness value between succeeding generations of iterative chromosomes.

Iterative generations incorporate parent fitness values using the parent roulette wheel method in which the area of a circle corresponding to a probability of 1 the wedge area of the circle encompassed by a particular chromosome being proportional to the fitness value of that chromosome and as such a greater likelihood of contribution to the next generation of chromosomes. The parent roulette wheel method retains population size between generations. In addition to the stochastic operator of crossover which is a subset of recombinatorial stochastic operators a small probability random mutation is introduced.

Additional operators that are optionally applied to a population to facilitate convergence to a survivability fitness value optionally include an inversion operator that swaps gene values in a single chromosome around an inversion plane a clone operator that copies a chromosome without any change and effectively doubles the area in the roulette wheel a zap mutation that changes the value of a gene or part of a chromosome to another value and a creep mutation that changes the value of a gene by plus or minus one unit.

Through the use of an inventive genetic algorithm tailored to complexities of radar system survivability an inventive genetic algorithm provides rapid convergence to survivability fitness value chromosomes even though the underlying search space of radar system survivability variables is not completely understood. As a result an inventive genetic algorithm provides superior conversion to other search techniques or calculus based techniques such as Fibonacci sets and sorting enumerative techniques such as dynamic programming depth first searching DFS and breadth first searching BFS and other guided random search techniques inclusive of simulated annealing and random walk extrema optimization.

The fundamental basis for genetic algorithm analysis according to the present invention is found in the aforementioned references. A scoring system uniquely detailed herein tests chromosome fitness with distinct criteria unique to a radar system survivability simulation.

A novel genetic algorithm is developed to interact with the radar simulation to optimize survivability. Each chromosome included configuration and parameter setting genes. The simulation is used to create a score based on the miss distance from the radar and the decoys. The score is then used as a measure of the fitness of the chromosome the term fitness value being analogous to survival of the fittest in evolutionary genetics. The score in turn is used to provide an area proportional to a chromosome fitness for use in a roulette wheel selection of chromosomes for propagation into the next iterative generation. A fitness value is protective when the fitness value achieves at least survival of the radar itself and preferably components decoys against a given threat.

Special chromosomes are used including genes that are the features and behaviors of the radar and decoys. Further special operators were used to ensure feasibility of the performance of the genetic algorithm.

The crossover operator employed multipoint homogeneous match crossovers. Table 2 below illustrates a representative example.

The mutation operator employed a restricted allele set mutation operator for a gene. The mutation operator selects from a finite set of values to replace a current value within the gene. Table 3 below illustrates a representative example.

Preferably the chromosome reproduction scheme between generations differs from the classical roulette wheel fitness proportionate reproduction through also including an elitist strategy that retains the best performing chromosome unchanged in the progeny generation.

In a conventional genetic algorithm the relative frequency of operator application remains fixed. Typical conventional frequencies include 75 crossover and 10 mutation. In any generation 75 of the chromosomes are selected for crossover and 10 are selected for mutation. According to the present invention the frequency operator application is preferably adapted based on the rate of improvement in the measurement of fitness value between chromosome generations. Preferably if the rate of improvement slows the proportion of chromosomes selected for mutation is increased. More preferably the frequency of crossover operations also decreases as the rate of fitness improvement slows.

In examples of the present invention a hybrid reproduction scheme is used. This scheme allocates additional trial through chromosomes with higher fitnesses. The number of additional trials may for example be proportionate to the measured fitness. The best found chromosomes from each generation were retained an elitist strategy. This approach allows efficient exploration of a search space and exploits high performance information by retaining the best chromosome. A novel objective function and scoring mechanism was created for the hybrid genetic algorithm. The objective function and scoring mechanism connects the missile simulation to the genetic algorithm by providing performance feedback to the genetic algorithm. The objective function algorithm takes into account the missed distance between the missile and the radar and or decoys while minimizing the number of decoys. The missile simulation was a stochastic simulation and a statistically significant number of replications were used to evaluate the performance of each chromosome. Control programs were created to collect and analyze the results. These were used by the genetic algorithm to conduct an evolutionary based search for optimized survivability of the radar and decoys.

Hence the approach used in this example used a number of novel features. The genes used included the configuration and parameter value for the radar and decoys. A homogenous match multipoint crossover operator was used in which chromosomes with similar or homogeneous characteristics for example an equal number of decoys were selected for multipoint crossover. This is the swapping of alleles from parent chromosomes to create children chromosomes. A novel mutation operator a restricted set allele mutation operator was used. As radar parameters were limited to specific values the mutation operator recognized alleles and randomly drew a new value from a set of feasible values.

The reproduction scheme included an elitist strategy. This included fitness proportionate reproduction and retention of best performing chromosomes. The combination of both methods is rarely used.

The operator frequency use was a further novel approach. The rate of improvement in the objective function was tracked and this information was used to modify the percentage of crossover and mutation. For example when the rate of improvement decreased the percentage of crossover was decreased and correspondingly the percentage of mutation was increased.

To illustrate an inventive process the threat scenario of is used to construct a fitness test based on a set of input values as to characteristics of ARM detection time ARM operational classification and ARM initial guidance. Preferably this threat data reflects actual experimental inputs to provide an ARM simulation. While the scenario depicted in represents a prototypical threat it is appreciated that multiple threat scenarios are optionally modeled in an inventive genetic algorithm analysis to afford a library of radar system operational parameters assuming a fixed decoy configuration relative to a radar emitter station so that any number of possible threats as detected and classified is used to select fit radar system operational chromosomes. Threat scenarios beyond that depicted in include multiple ARM launches inclusive of possible variations in launch distance location and classification.

A given ARM simulation is used as the selective pressure in the inventive genetic analysis process based on the total number of emitter radar station hits the number of decoy hits by an ARM and nearest miss distance NMD . For a given chromosome the number of decoys in operation is either fixed at a constant value or allowed to evolve for the purpose of optimization in the building of a new radar station. A genetic algorithm running score methodology according to the present invention to score the fitness value of a given chromosome was a summation of radar hits decoy hits near miss distance and optionally the number of decoys used with each value preferably weighted by a coefficient. Exemplary of these scoring coefficients are 1 000 times the number of emitter radar station hits 100 times the number of decoy hits 10 times the number of decoys used and a unitary coefficient for near miss distance. It is appreciated that the selection of weighting coefficients directly affects the selection pressures on a given set of configurational and operational parameters for a radar system. The scoring scheme allows modification based on known priorities such as relative value and or cost of radars and decoys. Blast effect simulation includes assumptions and preferably experimental or intelligence data as to fragmentation damage over pressure damage and other results associated with an ARM impact so as to provide realistic selection pressures on the evolution of configurational and operational chromosomes for a radar station.

A simulation was developed to determine survivability of the radar and decoy for a given impact point. Raw data was generated by high fidelity radar simulations using actual data when available. Data is converted into time packets allowing pulse to pulse characteristics such as time width frequency and beam position to be simulated. Various files are generated for specific operational scenarios. The data allowed creation of synchronous decoy pulses.

A full simulation can include more than 200 interdependent variables. However even a subset of genes shown in the following tables provides enhanced system survivability while identifying low import variables that are readily dropped from the analysis to accrue computational speed of fitness value evolution. Hence other non inventive optimization approaches configurations of radars and decoys are not analytically determined but are positioned using expert opinion. However this approach is inefficient and the inventive process efficiently finds an optimum radar system configuration based on a single threat scenario or a weighted likelihood of possible threats.

By creating distinctly separated tiered values for the subgroups the subgroups may be tiered by level of importance and or cost. In the latter example the radars are considered far more valuable than that of the decoys. The relative values given to radar hits and decoy hits can be adjusted according to the relative cost and or value accorded each and adjusted as relative values are changed by cost durability ARM development and other illustrative external data.

A preliminary analysis is performed in which radar emitter features and decoy features are genetic at specific values in each starting chromosome. The radar ARM simulation used is preferably stochastic and multiple accorded simulations are used to estimate the fitness of each chromosome. A statistical analysis of over 70 000 ARM simulations indicated that decoys are essential to radar survivability. Without a decoy radar survivability is 5.1 per threat. In contrast with 3 decoys survivability increased to 98 per . One decoy led to survivability of 47 per threat. However the combinatorial nature of the problem precludes a complete analysis of the parameter space and thus the improvement yielded by the inventive genetic algorithm.

In the following terms are used based to test various system operation parameters. Low ARM Signature Surveillance LASS is a waveform pattern of operation that a radar optionally employs. Notches refer to single features of low field strength within the radar pattern generated by a special algorithm within the radar emission control logic. Async refers to a flag variable which indicates that the decoy s pulses are asynchronous to the radar pulses. Decoy radiated pulse or DRP is a variable that holds the value in Watts of a decoy s radiated power. Blink Mode refers to a radiation mode in which intermittent radiation is emitted by decoys. Synchronous pulse radiation intensity or SPRI refers to a radiation emitting mode held constant during a decoy s radiative time in seconds when turned ON. Asynchronous delay time or ADT refers to a radiation mode in which intermittent radiation is emitted which holds the decoy s pulse constant with a delay times in seconds.

Hence embodiments of the present invention include a highly customized genetic algorithm to optimize radar survivability. Associated software code was developed for the genetic algorithm and is believed to be the first time a genetic algorithm is linked to an anti radiation missile simulation.

Patent documents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

