---

title: Auxiliary power unit fire enclosure
abstract: A fire enclosure for an auxiliary power unit having a hot zone formed by a gas turbine comprises an annular fire enclosure body, an axial expansion joint and a radial expansion joint. The annular fire enclosure body is configured to encapsulate the hot zone. The fire enclosure includes a first end and a second end. The axial expansion joint is connected to the first end. The radial expansion joint is connected to the second end.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08631637&OS=08631637&RS=08631637
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 08631637
owner_city: Windsor Locks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100730
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. N00019 06 0081 and Sub Contract No. 4500019224 awarded by the United States Navy.

The present invention is directed to auxiliary power units having fire enclosures. More particularly the invention relates to connecting joints for mounting fire enclosures to the auxiliary power unit.

Auxiliary power units APUs comprise gas turbine engines that operate to provide various power inputs to aircraft such as helicopters when the main propulsion engines are not operating such as during ground operations or during the event of an outage during flight. APUs can additionally provide supplemental power to that generated during main engine operations. APUs typically comprise gas turbine engines having a compressor and a turbine between which a combustor burns fuel. Through a gearbox the turbine provides mechanical input to an electrical generator while compressed air bled from the compressor is used to supply various environmental control systems.

APUs are typically located within the outer skin of the fuselage of the aircraft. Thus it is desirable to encapsulate hot sections of the APU to provide a fire break where fuel is present. Conventional practice such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 526 921 to Williams et al. involves rigidly bolting a fire enclosure to various fixed positions on the APU. Temperature variations that arise during different operating cycles of the APU produce thermal expansions of various APU components that alter the distances between the fixed positions. Thermal growth of the APU thus induces strain into the fire enclosure. The ability of the fire enclosure to tolerate deflection or bending is limited because the fire enclosure is not a structural component designed to absorb loading. There is therefore a need for alleviating strain in APU fire enclosures.

The present invention is directed to a fire enclosure for an auxiliary power unit having a hot zone formed by a gas turbine. The fire enclosure comprises an annular fire enclosure body an axial expansion joint and a radial expansion joint. The annular fire enclosure body is configured to encapsulate the hot zone. The fire enclosure includes a first end and a second end. The axial expansion joint is connected to the first end. The radial expansion joint is connected to the second end.

Fire enclosure and the other engine casing components are connected by a plurality of joints that provide structural integrity to APU while also permitting some of the cases to translate to absorb stresses generated during operation of APU . Exhaust case connects with turbine case at first joint . Compressor case connects with combustor case at second joint . Combustor case connects with exhaust case at third joint . Fire enclosure connects with compressor case through forward support ring and fourth joint . Exhaust case connects with fire enclosure through aft support ring and fifth joint . Fourth joint and fifth joint comprise expansion joints that permit fire enclosure to deflect deform or otherwise absorb thermal stresses generated by the operation of APU . Fire enclosure provides a fire wall or fire break between the hot section of APU and the surrounding environment.

Compressor case comprises an annular body for housing compressor wheel and compressor blades . Compressor case has a converging inlet between outer and inner walls that comprise a passageway for conducting inlet air Athrough compressor section . Combustor case comprises a single walled annular body having a generally cylindrical side wall portion and a radially converging end portion that houses combustor liner . The side wall portion generally traverses the axial length of combustor liner while the radially converging portion generally traverses the radial extent of combustor liner . Combustor case directs airflow from compressor case into combustor liner .

Turbine case comprises an annular body for housing turbine wheel . Turbine case has a diverging inlet between outer and inner walls that comprise a passageway for conducting compressed inlet air Athrough turbine section . Turbine case connects to the outlet of combustor liner such that combustor liner is encapsulated between compressor case combustor case turbine case and exhaust case . Turbine case directs airflow from combustor section to exhaust case . Exhaust case comprises a cylindrical body having a generally straight upstream section and a slightly diverging downstream section. Exhaust case extends into combustor section and traverses the axial length of combustor liner . Exhaust case directs exhaust air Afrom turbine section out of APU .

Fire enclosure is jointed to APU radially outward of combustor case . Fire enclosure comprises a generally annular or cylindrical body that includes various shapes to facilitate joining to forward support ring and aft support ring and to accommodate incorporation of other features such as eductor inlet which includes E Seal and drain assembly . Forward support ring is joined to fire enclosure through fourth joint which as is discussed in detail with respect to comprises an axial expansion joint. Aft support ring is joined to fire enclosure through sixth joint which in the embodiment shown comprises a bolted connection using a threaded fastener although other connections may be used. Aft support ring is joined to exhaust case through fifth joint which as is discussed in detail with respect to comprises a radial expansion joint.

In various embodiments compressor case and turbine case comprise bodies that have been manufactured i.e. cast and machined. In various embodiments combustor case and exhaust case comprise thin sheet like bodies that have been shaped and formed. Compressor case turbine case combustor case and exhaust case are formed of various metal alloys such as stainless steel aluminum or titanium Likewise forward support ring and aft support ring are formed of various metals such as stainless steel sheet metal. Fire enclosure comprises a thin sheet like structure that is shaped and formed. In various embodiments fire enclosure is also made from various metal alloys as previously listed. However in order to reduce the weight of APU fire enclosure is made from composite materials such as a carbon fiber or fiber reinforced plastic composite in other embodiments.

Inlet air Ais drawn into APU by operation of compressor section . Inlet air Acontinues through compressor section to combustor case . Inside combustor case compressed inlet air Aenters combustor liner which is connected to the inlet of turbine case at seventh joint . Fuel is injected into liner through fuel nozzles not shown and ignited by an igniter not shown to carry out a combustion process to generate high energy gases for turbine section . The high energy gases flow to turbine section where they are expanded and useful work is extracted by turbine section .

Compressor section and turbine section are co axially connected by shaft . As exhaust air Apasses through turbine section turbine wheel rotates shaft through blades . Compressor wheel is also coupled to turbine wheel such that compressor blades rotate to provide compressed air to combustor section for carrying out the combustion process in combination with the fuel provided by the fuel nozzles. Shaft extends from turbine wheel through compressor wheel and bearings .

Operation of combustor section produces heat. Temperatures within combustor section far exceed approximately 1 000 degrees Fahrenheit 538 Celsius . Temperatures outside of combustor liner reach well above approximately 400 degrees Fahrenheit 204 Celsius due to combustor section and temperatures generated by compression of air in compress section . Combustor section therefore comprises a hot zone within APU where temperatures are above the flash point of fuel used in combustor section . In order to reduce the potential for hazard the hot zone is encapsulated within fire enclosure . In particular fire enclosure fourth joint and fifth joint prevent escape of fire from within combustor section while permitting fire enclosure to deflect and translate within APU .

Fire enclosure compressor case combustor case exhaust case forward support ring and aft support ring are joined by first joint through fifth joint . Compressor case combustor case and exhaust case form a flow path for inlet air Aand exhaust air A. Second joint and third joint comprise rigid joints that provide stationary connection points for compressor case combustor case and exhaust case . Fire enclosure forward support ring and aft support ring form a flow path into which ambient air Aflows. Ambient air Aenters fire enclosure through eductor inlet which includes E seal . Fire enclosure is supported by expansion joints comprising fourth joint and fifth joint .

The combustion of air and fuel within combustor liner and compression of air within compressor section builds up heat and produces flames within APU . The flames are contained by combustor case and exhaust case while the heat can conduct through combustor case and exhaust case . Due to the close proximity to liner and heat generated by compressed air flow combustor case does not keep the temperatures outside of APU below the flashpoint of fuel used in combustor section . Fire enclosure provides a layer of containment to flames generated by fuel vapors which contact the exterior surface of combustor case or exhaust case and heat to ensure safe operation of APU under all conditions. In particular fire enclosure provides a flame proof heat zone within APU to prevent the spread of heat and flames. Fire enclosure is supported within APU by connection to compressor case combustor case and exhaust case which along with forward support ring and aft support ring provide structural stability to fire enclosure .

E seal of eductor inlet connects to a duct within the aircraft to which APU is mounted. The duct extends to an inlet opening within the aircraft skin to allow ambient air Ainto fire enclosure . Exhaust air Adraws ambient air Athrough fire enclosure . Within APU ambient air Acools combustor case . Ambient air Aalso cools the exhaust plume produced by exhaust air Aoutside of APU .

Compressor case combustor case exhaust case and combustor liner are attached within APU at first joint second joint third joint and seventh joint . First joint comprises an axial expansion joint between exhaust case and combustor case . Seventh joint comprises an axial expansion joint between turbine case and combustor liner . In one embodiment first joint and seventh joint comprise tongue and groove or bird mouth seal joints. Second joint comprises a rigid connection between radially outward facing flanges on compressor case and combustor case . For example a plurality of spaced apart threaded fasteners are inserted through openings within the flanges and secured with nuts or any other suitable means. Third joint comprises a fixed connection between adjacent flat segments of combustor case and exhaust case . For example a weld or braze seam is positioned along the flat segments around the entire circumference of exhaust case . Second joint and third joint therefore comprises fixed points within APU .

Heat within APU causes compressor case combustor case and exhaust case to expand during operation. Expansion of theses cases causes the fixed position of second joint and third joint to change relative position within APU . For example the radial distance between third joint and second joint increases as combustor case expands. Likewise for example the axial distance between second joint and third joint increases as exhaust case expands. The shape of fire enclosure is distorted by displacement of combustor case and exhaust case . Additionally cooling provided by ambient air Afrom eductor inlet produces a temperature gradient across fire enclosure that further contributes to distortion of the shape of fire enclosure . Furthermore ambient air Afrom eductor inlet reduces the temperatures to which fire enclosure is exposed such that materials having lower threshold limits to heat can be used. Fire enclosure is in various embodiments comprised of a composite material that has lower coefficient of thermal expansion than the metals comprising combustor case and exhaust case and as such does not expand commensurately with such components. Thus thin construction and different thermal expansion rates reduce the ability of fire enclosure to withstand thermal and mechanical stresses.

Fourth joint and fifth joint provide degrees of freedom for movement of fire enclosure . Particularly fourth joint comprises an axial expansion joint to provide freedom of movement of fire enclosure in the axial direction and fifth joint comprises a radial expansion joint to provide freedom of movement of fire enclosure in the radial direction. The ability of fourth joint and fifth joint to absorb displacement of combustor case and exhaust case reduces the strain induced in fire enclosure and preserves the stability of fire enclosure . This helps permit fire enclosure to be made from lighter and more brittle material.

Forward support ring extends radially from second joint . Forward support ring comprises an annular disk having an inner diameter end and an outer diameter end. Forward support ring includes a bore at its inner diameter end through which fastener extends. The outer diameter end of forward support ring is joined with slot . Slot extends axially from an aft facing surface of forward support ring . Slot comprises an upper wall and a lower wall that form a three hundred sixty degree slot around forward support ring . The forward ends of the upper and lower walls are bent radially inward such that slot can be welded or otherwise fastened to forward support ring at joint . The aft ends of the upper and lower walls are flared away from each other to form a funneled or conical inlet that facilitates reception of flange of fire enclosure . Flange includes pad which may be a ring of plastic or silicone that facilitates sliding of flange into slot . Slot slightly deflects to accept flange such that a tight seal is formed at fourth joint . Pad also assists in forming an air tight seal. Fourth joint comprises a bird mouth type or tongue and groove type seal.

Fourth joint allows forward support ring to be axially displaced from fire enclosure as for example combustor case grows in axial length from thermal expansion. The length of slot is sized to produce a flame quenching or flame arresting channel. For example the length of the horizontal portions of the walls of slot between the forward bent ends and the aft flared ends is approximately seven times the space between the upper and lower walls when flange and pad are inserted into slot . Such a configuration ensures that any flames entering slot from within enclosure are smothered or extinguished before being able to escape slot outside of enclosure . Second joint comprises a metal to metal seal such that flame is also prevented from passing through second joint . As such fire enclosure and forward support ring maintain a fire safe enclosure around the hot zone of APU while also allowing fire enclosure to be axially displaced within APU .

Bushing and pin form a metal to metal contact that prevents flame from exhaust case from passing through. In the embodiment shown pin comprises a hollow member having an internal passageway that connects atmospheric conditions outside fire enclosure with the interior of exhaust case . In various embodiments of the invention pin may comprise a solid body to prevent flames from passing through fifth joint . As such fire enclosure and aft support ring maintain a fire safe enclosure around the hot zone of APU while also allowing fire enclosure to be radially displaced within APU .

As discussed fire enclosure produces a flame proof enclosure surrounding the hot zone of APU . The axial expansion joint of fourth joint and the radial expansion joint of fifth joint permit fire enclosure to deflect and change position within APU reducing stresses incurred during operation of APU . Expansion joints and maintain the flame proof qualities of fire enclosure by providing flame quenching joints or flame proof joints that prevent flames from escaping enclosure . Expansion joints and allow fire enclosure to be mounted in close proximity to APU thereby reducing the footprint of fire enclosure . Smaller fire enclosures have the advantage of directly being lighter and cheaper. However the small size of fire enclosure also reduces the size weight and expense of fire extinguishing equipment such as Halon bottles and spraying systems that is typically included within fire enclosures to ultimately eliminate fire hazards should they arise.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

