---

title: Methods of treating a diabetic embryopathy
abstract: Maternal diabetes can lead to a developmental malformation of an embryo. A developmental malformation caused by maternal diabetes is commonly referred to as a diabetic embryopathy. There is currently no effective treatment for reducing or inhibiting a diabetic embryopathy. To this end, the present invention is drawn to novel methods of treating a diabetic embryopathy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08828924&OS=08828924&RS=08828924
owner: University of Maryland, Baltimore
number: 08828924
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100513
---
This invention was made with government support under the Grant Number HD043489 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to the study of congenital malformation. More specifically the present invention relates to methods of treating a diabetic embryopathy.

Each year in the United States more than 150 000 babies are born with a major congenital malformation. This problem is worse in offspring of women who have poorly controlled type 1 or 2 diabetes during pregnancy 6 10 of these babies are born with a major congenital malformation. Based on the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey conducted during 1988 1994 1.1 of women 20 39 years of age have type 1 or 2 diabetes and the incidence of diabetes among women of childbearing age has been increasing over the past four decades. It is projected that the number of women of childbearing age with type 2 diabetes will double by 2010 suggesting that without intervention approximately 8 000 babies will be born each year in the United States with a congenital malformation secondary to type 1 or 2 diabetes.

Human observational studies have demonstrated a strong link between the extent of a mother s glycemic control and the incidence of congenital malformations in her offspring. The putative teratogenic effects of hyperglycemia are supported by studies that demonstrate a reduction in the incidence of birth defects following clinical intervention targeted at achieving euglycemia. When euglycemia is successfully maintained periconceptionally and during the first trimester the prevalence of malformations is reduced to a level comparable to that of the general population. However even with excellent compliance and clinical care euglycemia may be difficult to achieve and maintain. In addition it is possible that organogenesis can be affected by short periods of hyperglycemia that are not reflected in the averaged values of glycosylated hemoglobin levels which are used to monitor glucose levels. A further obstacle is that most women with diabetes do not seek pre pregnancy care and most have unplanned pregnancies. Hence a very important goal for public health is to develop and implement accessible and affordable intervention strategies to diminish the occurrence of these anomalies.

Both clinical cases and animal studies have clearly demonstrated that the main characteristics of maternal hyperglycemia associated defects are abnormal organogenesis and underdevelopment. The organ systems most commonly affected include the central nervous cardiovascular gastrointestinal craniofacial genitourinary and skeletal systems. Because the heart and the neural tube develop early during embryogenesis a higher incidence of malformations is often seen in these two organs. In the central nervous system abnormalities can be categorized as underdevelopment of the midbrain and hindbrain and failure of the neural tube to close at both anterior rostral and posterior caudal ends of the neural axis. The failure of posterior neural tube closure results in spina bifida a common birth defect seen in newborns.

Considering the need in the art for compositions and methods for treating a diabetic embryopathy it is desirable to define an optimal intervention strategy for treating a diabetic embryopathy. The present invention fulfils this long felt need and desire in the art.

The invention relates to methods of treating a diabetic embryopathy. By way of example the invention relates to methods for treating a diabetic embryopathy comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a modulator of an activity of a polypeptide involved in cell signaling that is altered during maternal diabetes and or participates in the pathology of a diabetic embryopathy.

The invention also relates to methods of treating diabetic embryopathy that include administering to a mammal in need thereof at least one agent that modulates the activity of at least one polypeptide selected from the group consisting of apoptosis signal regulating kinase 1 ASK1 c Jun N terminal kinases JNK extracellular signal regulated kinase ERK such as ERK1 and ERK2 and Akt.

In certain embodiments the invention is drawn to a method of treating a diabetic embryopathy consisting of consisting essentially of or comprising administering an agent that modulates the activity of the polypeptide apoptosis signal regulating kinase 1 ASK1 . In other embodiments an agent that modulates the activity of ASK1 decreases the activity of ASK1.

In certain embodiments the invention is drawn to a method of treating a diabetic embryopathy consisting of consisting essentially of or comprising administering an agent that modulates the activity of the polypeptide c Jun N terminal kinases JNK . In other embodiments an agent that modulates the activity of JNK decreases the activity of JNK. In further other embodiments JNK is JNK1 JNK2 or JNK3. In even further other embodiments JNK is JNK1 or JNK2.

In certain embodiments the invention is drawn to a method of treating a diabetic embryopathy consisting of consisting essentially of or comprising administering an agent that modulates the activity of the polypeptide extracellular signal regulated kinase ERK . In other embodiments an agent that modulates the activity of ERK increases the activity of ERK. In example embodiments ERK is ERK1 or ERK2.

In certain embodiments the invention is drawn to a method of treating a diabetic embryopathy consisting of consisting essentially of or comprising administering an agent that modulates the activity of a polypeptide of the Akt family. In other embodiments an agent that modulates the activity of a polypeptide of the Akt family increases the activity of a polypeptide of the Akt family. In further embodiments a polypeptide of the Akt family is Akt1 Akt2 and Akt3.

Example embodiments also include methods that include administering to a mammal in need thereof at least one agent that modulates the activity of at least one polypeptide selected from the group consisting of ASK JNK ERK and Akt and providing or administering a multi nutrient supplement regimen to the mammal.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention are described herein which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any conception and specific embodiment disclosed herein may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth herein. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that any description figure example etc. is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is by no means intended to define the limits the invention.

Unless otherwise noted technical terms are used according to conventional usage. Definitions of common terms in molecular biology may be found for example in Benjamin Lewin Genes VII published by Oxford University Press 2000 ISBN 019879276X Kendrew et al. eds. The Encyclopedia of Molecular Biology published by Blackwell Publishers 1994 ISBN 0632021829 and Robert A. Meyers ed. Molecular Biology and Biotechnology a Comprehensive Desk Reference published by Wiley John Sons Inc. 1995 ISBN 0471186341 and other similar technical references.

As used herein a or an may mean one or more. As used herein when used in conjunction with the word comprising the words a or an may mean one or more than one. As used herein another may mean at least a second or more. Furthermore unless otherwise required by context singular terms include pluralities and plural terms include the singular.

As used herein about refers to a numeric value including for example whole numbers fractions and percentages whether or not explicitly indicated. The term about generally refers to a range of numerical values e.g. 5 10 of the recited value that one of ordinary skill in the art would consider equivalent to the recited value e.g. having the same function or result . In some instances the term about may include numerical values that are rounded to the nearest significant figure.

As used herein the term agent is a molecular entity including for example a small molecule especially small organic molecules that satisfy the constraints of Lipinski s Rules Lipinski C. A. et al. 1997 Experimental And Computational Approaches To Estimate Solubility And Permeability In Drug Discovery And Development Settings Adv. Drug Del. Rev 23 3 25 Lipinski C. A. et al. 2001 Experimental And Computational Approaches To Estimate Solubility And Permeability In Drug Discovery And Development Settings Adv. Drug Del. Rev. 46 3 26 Oprea T. I. et al. 2001 Is There A Difference Between Leads And Drugs A Historical Perspective J. Chem. Inf. Comput. Sci. 41 1308 1315 Amp K. et al. 1999 A Knowledge Based Approach in Designing Combinatorial or Medicinal Chemistry Libraries for Drug Discovery J. Combin. Chem. 1 55 68 a nucleic acid e.g. an oligonucleotide and in particular a siRNA a shRNA an expression cassette an antisense DNA an antisense RNA etc. protein peptide antibody antisense drug or other biomolecule that is naturally made synthetically made or semi synthetically made and is used alone or in combination with other therapies or methods to treat a diabetic embryopathy. In particular aspects of invention an agent is a small molecule that modulates the activity of ASK1 JNK ERK such as ERK1 or ERK2 or Akt and is useful for treating a diabetic embryopathy each of which may be used alone or in conjunction with one another in any combination of the agents described herein.

As used herein a diabetic embryopathy and all its forms and tenses including for example diabetes induced embryopathy and diabetes associated embryopathy refer to a myriad of pathological abnormalities anomalies or malformations including for example a congenital malformation resulting from maternal diabetes during gestation.

As used herein modulator or modulate and all their forms and tenses including for example modulation modulating and modulated refer to an agent that acts or the act itself to alter adjust or keep in proper measure or proportion a cellular event including for example cell signaling and cell function . For example a modulator of an activity of a polypeptide involved in cell signaling includes altering adjusting or keeping in proper measure the activity of the polypeptide such that cell signaling and cell function is normal and proper i.e. there is a lack of cell pathology or dysfunction .

As used herein treat and all its forms and tenses including for example treating treated and treatment refer to therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative treatment i.e. reducing inhibiting or preventing for a subject in need thereof. A method of treating a diabetic embryopathy includes for example reducing or inhibiting the severity or occurrence of a diabetic embryopathy. A subject in need thereof includes a subject already with a pathological condition of the invention including for example a diabetic embryopathy as well as a subject in which a pathological condition of the invention is to be prevented. Subjects may include for example mammals and in particular may include humans. By way of example mammals in need of treatment may include human females who are or may become pregnant. By way of further example mammals in need of treatment may be human females who are or may become pregnant in which the female has Type I Type II and or Type III diabetes in which case the female may be more likely than non diabetic females to have an embryo with a diabetic embryopathy. Thus by way of example the mammal in need of the agent or in need of treatment for diabetic embryopathy may include the adult pregnant mammal and the mammals being treated may include the adult and or the embryo or fetus being carried or who will be carried by the adult.

Convincing evidence from clinical and experimental studies demonstrate that diabetes related hyperglycemia leads to sustained generation of reactive oxygen species ROS and depletion of antioxidant defense that can result in intracellular oxidative stress due to an imbalance in intracellular reduction oxidation redox homeostasis. Under normal physiological conditions oxygen free radicals including hydroxyl radicals superoxide anions singlet oxygen and hydrogen peroxide H2O2 are produced during cellular energy metabolism in subcellular organelles including for example mitochondria. ROS mediated intracellular signal transduction regulates a wide range of cell functions including proliferation differentiation and migration. However under pathological conditions excess reactive oxygen species can oxidize proteins lipids and DNA causing cell dysfunction cell injury and even cell death.

Methods are provided herein that include administering to a mammal in need thereof for example for the treatment of diabetic embryopathy a modulator of an activity of a polypeptide involved in cell signaling that is altered during maternal diabetes or participates in the pathology of a diabetic embryopathy.

Example methods provided herein include administering to a mammal in need thereof at least one agent that modulates the activity of at least one polypeptide selected from the group consisting of apoptosis signal regulating kinase 1 ASK1 c Jun N terminal kinases JNK extracellular signal regulated kinase ERK and Akt. As discussed further below example agents may include at least one agent that decreases the activity of at least one polypeptide selected from the group consisting of ERK ASK1 JNK and a polypeptide of the Akt family.

Further example agents may include at least one agent that increases the activity of at least one polypeptide selected from the group consisting of ERK ASK1 JNK and a polypeptide of the Akt family.

Protein kinases are known signaling intermediates to mediate oxidative stress induced apoptosis. Among the kinases c Jun N terminal kinases JNKs are prominent ones that mediate oxidative stress induced apoptosis in variety of cellular systems. The specific molecular targets of JNK include for example transcription factor AP 1 and non transcription factors such as for example Bcl 2 family members A. Minden and M. Karin Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1333 1997 pp. F85 F104 A. Lin Bioessays 25 2003 pp. 17 24 . Substantial genetic and pharmacological data provide strong support to indicate that JNKs serve as important pro apoptotic factors in cells undergoing oxidative stress Tournier et al. Science 288 2000 pp. 870 874 Tobiume et al. J. Cell Physiol. 191 2002 pp. 95 104 Li et al. Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 29 2003 pp. 779 783 . Mitochondria are a site of action for JNK in apoptosis and the pro apoptotic activity of JNK can be mediated by regulation of Bcl 2 family members. In maternal diabetes JNK1 2 activation in the embryos and yolk sacs correlates with an increase in Bax expression and excessive apoptosis leading to embryonic dysmorphogenesis Reece et al. J. Matern. Fetal Neonatal Med. 11 2002 pp. 249 253 . In addition with antioxidant supplementation the activation of JNK is blocked in the embryos and yolk sacs from diabetic rats resulting in the prevention of diabetic embryopathy Reece et al. Am. J. Obstet. Gynecol. 194 2006 pp. 580 585 . An increase in ROS production in the presence of oxidative stress specifically phosphorylates and thus activates ASK1 an upstream kinase of MAPKs MAP kinase kinase kinase . This cascade of phosphorylation activation in turn activates SEK1 Jun kinase kinase and ultimately results in JNK activation Tobiume et al. EMBO Rep. 2 2001 pp. 222 228 . Considering this one aspect of the invention is the discovery and use of an agent that decreases the activity of ASK1 and or JNK including for example JNK1 and JNK2 to treat a diabetic embryopathy.

In certain aspects of the invention drawn to an agent that modulates the activity of ASK1 modulation of ASK1 comprises decreasing the activity of ASK1. In further certain aspects modulation of ASK1 consists of decreasing the activity of ASK1. In other further certain aspects the agent that modulates the activity of ASK1 is effective for treating a diabetic embryopathy. In certain aspects an agent that modulates the activity of ASK1 includes for example thioredoxin and other ASK1 inhibitors US Patent Application Publication No. 20070167386 thioredoxin reductase caspase activated DNase CAD inhibitor that interacts with ASK1 CIIA Cho et al. J. Cell Biol. 2003 Oct. 13 163 1 71 81 glutathione S transferase mu J. Biol. Chem. Vol. 276 Issue 16 12749 12755 and an antagonist anti ASK1 antibody.

In certain aspects of the invention drawn to an agent that modulates the activity of JNK modulation of JNK comprises decreasing the activity of JNK. In further certain aspects modulation of JNK consists of decreasing the activity of JNK. In other further certain aspects the agent that modulates the activity of JNK is effective for treating a diabetic embryopathy. In certain aspects an agent that modulates the activity of JNK includes for example SP600125 anthra 1 9cd pyrazol 6 2H one US Patent Application Publication No. 20090054438 JNK interacting protein 1 JIP1 Harding et al. Journal Of Biological Chemistry 2001 276 7 4531 4534 an antagonist anti JNK antibody 4 chloro N 3 4 hexylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylphenyl benzamide 4 chloro N 4 4 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl amino 1 piperidin yl sulfonyl phenylbenzamide 4 chloro N 4 4 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylphenyl benzamide 4 chloro N 4 4 hexylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylbenzyl benzamide 4 chloro N 4 4 hexylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylphenyl benzamide 4 chloro N 3 4 hexylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylbenzyl benzamide 4 chloro N 3 4 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl amino 1 piperidinyl sulfonyl benzylbenzamide 4 chloro N 3 4 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonyl benzyl benzamide 4 chloro N 4 4 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylbenzyl benzamide 4 chloro N 3 3 hexylamino 1 pyrrolidinyl sulfonylphenyl benzamide 4 chloro N 4 4 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl amino 1 piperidinyl sulfonyl benzylbenzamide 4 chloro N 3 3 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylamino 1 pyr rolidinyl sulfonylphenyl benzamide N 4 4 butylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylbenzyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihy dro 3 pyridinecarboxamide 4 chloro N 4 3 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl amino 1 pyrrolidinyl sulfonyl phenylbenzamide 4 chloro N 4 3 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylamino 1 pyrrolidinyl sulfonyl phenylbenzamide 4 chloro N 3 4 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl amino 1 piperidinyl sulfonyl phenylbenzamide 4 chloro N 3 4 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl anilino 1 piperidinyl sulfonyl phenylbenzamide 4 chloro N 4 3 hexylamino 1 pyrrolidinyl sulfonylphenyl benzamide 4 chloro N 4 4 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl anilino 1 piper idinyl sulfonyl benzylbenzamide 4 chloro N 4 3 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylamino 1 pyr rolidinyl sulfonylphenyl benzamide N 3 4 anilino 1 piperidinyl sulfonyl phenyl 4 chlorobenzamide 4 chloro N 3 4 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylphenyl benzamide 4 chloro N 4 3 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylamino 1 pyr rolidinyl sulfonylphenyl benzamide 4 chloro N 3 4 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl anilino 1 piperidinyl sulfonyl benzylbenzamide 4 chloro N 4 4 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl anilino 1 piperidinyl sulfonyl phenylbenzamide 4 chloro N 3 3 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl amino 1 pyrrolidinyl sulfonyl benzylbenzamide 4 chloro N 4 3 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylamino 1 pyr rolidinyl sulfonylbenzyl benzamide N 4 4 hexylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylbenzyl 2 hydroxynicotinamide N 3 4 hexylamino 1 piperidinyl sulfonylbenzyl 2 hydro xynicotinamide 2 hydroxy N 3 4 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl anilino 1 piperid inyl sulfonyl benzylnicotinamide 2 hydroxy N 4 4 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl anilino 1 piperid inyl sulfonyl benzylnicotinamide and other JNK inhibitors US Patent Application Publication No. 20080255222 CC105 B. Bennett et al. Curr. Opin. Pharmacol. 2003 3 420 25 a compound of Formula I Formula II compound 152 compound 153 and other JNK inhibitors US Patent Application Publication No. 20080033022 a benzazole a benzothiazole derivative 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 6 dimethoxy 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 1H imidazol 5 yl ethyl amino 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 1 piperazinyl 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 benzyl 1 piperidinyl 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 methyl 1 piperazinyl 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 morpholinyl 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 methylamino 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1 piperazinyl 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 4 benzyloxy 1 piperidinyl 4 pyrimidinylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 hydroxy 1 piperidinyl 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 dimethylamino ethyl amino 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 dimethylamino 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 methoxyethyl amino 4 pyrimidinylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 hydroxyethyl amino 4 pyrimidinylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 propylamino 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 3 1H imidazol 1 yl propyl amino 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 1 pyrrolidinyl 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 phenylethyl amino 4 pyrimidinylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 2 pyridinyl ethyl amino 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 pyridinylmethyl amino 4 pyrimidinylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 4 1H 1 2 3 benzotriazol 1 yl 1 piperidinyl 4 pyrimidinylacetonitr ile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 4 2 pyrazinyl 1 piperazinyl 4 pyrimidinylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 4 2 pyrimidinyl 1 piperazinyl 4 pyrimidinylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 3 pyridinyl ethyl amino 4 pyrimidinyl aceto nitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 5 bromo 2 2 dimethylamino ethyl amino 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 morpholin 4 ylethyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl anilinopiperidin 1 yl pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 3 2 oxopyrrolidin 1 yl propyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 methyl 3 methylamino propyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 3 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl propyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 3 morpholin 4 ylpropyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 1 methyl 1H imidazol 4 yl ethyl aminopyrimi din 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 1H indol 3 yl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 4 hydroxyphenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile tert butyl 4 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl cyano methyl pyrimidin 2 ylamino acetate2 3 aminopropyl amino pyrimidin 4 yl 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl acetonitrile2 2 aminoethyl amino pyrimidin 4 yl 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl acetonitr ile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 3 dimethylamino propyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 piperidin 1 ylethyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 1 methyl 1H imidazol 5 yl ethyl aminopyrimi din 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 benzylamino pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile isopropyl 3 4 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl cyano methyl pyrimidin 2 ylamino propanoate 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 3 hydroxypropyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 pyridin 3 ylmethyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 pyridin 4 ylmethyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile tert butyl 4 2 4 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl cyano methyl pyrimidin 2 ylamino ethyl phenylcarbamate 2 2 4 aminophenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 3 methoxyphenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 2 fluorophenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethylam ino pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 hydroxy 2 phenylethyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 3 trifluoromethyl pyridin 2 yl aminoethyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 3 chlorophenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 3 4 dichlorophenyl ethyl aminopyr imidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 4 methylphenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 3 fluorophenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 4 phenoxyphenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 2 phenoxyphenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 4 bromophenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 4 fluorophenyl ethyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 1 1 biphenyl 4 ylethyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 4 hydroxy oxido amino phenylethyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 1H 1 2 4 triazol 1 yl ethyl aminopyrimi din 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 3 1H pyrazol 1 yl propyl aminopyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 4 2 4 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl cyano methyl pyrimidin 2 ylamino ethyl benzenesulfonamide2 2 pyridin 3 ylethyl amino pyrimidin 4 yl 5 trifluoromethyl 1 3 be nzothiazol 2 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 1H tetraazol 5 ylmethyl amino pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 4 pyridin 3 ylbenzyl oxy pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 pyridin 4 ylmethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 pyridin 2 ylmethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 3 pyridin 2 ylpropoxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 4 methoxybenzyl oxy pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 pyridin 3 ylmethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 1 1 biphenyl 3 ylmethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl aceto nitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 3 4 5 trimethoxybenzyl oxy pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 3 4 dichlorobenzyl oxy pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 3 dimethylamino methyl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 1 oxidopyridin 3 yl methoxy pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 morpholin 4 ylmethyl benzyl oxypyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl2 4 pyridin 2 ylbenzyl oxy pyrimidin 4 ylacetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 piperidin 1 ylmethyl benzyl oxypyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 methoxyphenoxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 butoxyphenoxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 2 4 4 acetylpiperazin 1 yl phenoxy pyrimidin 4 yl 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl acetonitrile 2 4 methoxyphenoxy pyrimidin 4 yl 5 trifluoromethyl 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl acetonitrile N 2 4 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl cyano methyl pyrimidin 2 ylamino ethyl 4 chlorobenzamide 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 methoxy 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl methyl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 4 benzyl piperazin 1 yl methyl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 piperazin 1 ylmethyl benzyl oxypyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 4 4 formylpiperazin 1 yl methyl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 2 4 4 acetylpiperazin 1 yl methyl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl acetonitrile 3H Benzothiazol 2 ylidene 2 4 4 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 ylmethyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 4 4 4 3H Benzothiazol 2 ylidene cyano methyl pyrimidin 2 yloxymethyl benzyl piperazine 1 carboxylic acid methyl ester 2 4 4 4 3H Benzothiazol 2 ylidene cyano methyl pyrimidin 2 yloxyme thyl benzyl piperazin 1 yl acetamide 2 4 4 2 Amino acetyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl 3H benzothiazol 2 ylidene acetonitrile 4 4 4 3H Benzothiazol 2 ylidene cyano methyl pyrimidin 2 yloxymeth yl benzyl piperazin 1 yl acetic acid methyl ester 3H Benzothiazol 2 ylidene 2 4 4 2 methoxy ethyl piperazin 1 ylmeth yl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 4 4 4 3H Benzothiazol 2 ylidene cyano methyl pyrimidin 2 yloxymethyl benzyl piperazine 1 carboxylic acid dimethylamide 3H Benzothiazol 2 ylidene 2 4 4 ethyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile 3H Benzothiazol 2 ylidene 2 4 4 2 hydroxy ethyl piperazin 1 ylmeth yl benzyloxy pyrimidin 4 yl acetonitrile and other JNK inhibitors US Patent Application Publication No. 20080039377 Compounds 1 to 142 and other dihydroquinone and dihydronaphthridine inhibitors of JNK US Patent Application Publication No. 20080287458 AS601245 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 2 2 3 pyridinyl ethyl amino 4 pyrimidinyl acetonitrile J Pharmacol Exp Ther 2004 310 25 32 and JNK inhibitor III J Biol Chem 2003 278 40213 23 .

In addition to the possible involvement of ASK1 and JNK it is also contemplated that extracellular signal regulated kinase ERK Akt and signalling pathways related thereto are involved in diabetic embryopathy. ERK Akt and signalling pathways related thereto are involved in pathways that can act to prevent cells from undergoing apoptotic cell death which is an antagonistic effect when compared to JNK and ASK1 as described above. Considering this one aspect of the present invention is the discovery and use of an agent that modulates e.g. increases the activity of ERK including for example ERK1 and ERK2 and or Akt to treat a diabetic embryopathy.

In certain aspects of the invention drawn to an agent that modulates the activity of ERK modulation of ERK comprises increasing the activity of ERK. In further certain aspects modulation of ERK includes increasing the activity of ERK. In other further certain aspects the agent that modulates the activity of ERK is effective for treating a diabetic embryopathy. In certain aspects an ERK modulator includes for example epidermal growth factor EGF an agonist anti ERK antibody biliverdin reductase Lerner Marmarosh et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2008 May 13 105 19 6870 5 urea Yang et al. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 277 F176 F185 1999 phorbol myristate acetate PMA Kim et al. BMC Cancer 2009 9 27 and FGF 2 Kalluri et al. European Journal of Neuroscience Volume 25 4 February 2007p 1041 1048 .

In certain aspects of the invention drawn to an agent that modulates the activity of Akt modulation of Akt comprises increasing the activity of Akt. In further certain aspects modulation of Akt consists of increasing the activity of Akt. In other further certain aspects the agent that modulates the activity of Akt is effective for treating a diabetic embryopathy. In certain aspects an Akt modulator includes for example Ro 31 8220 Hemstr m et al. Int J Cancer. 2006 Sep. 1 119 5 1028 38 IGF 1 Hsu et al. Endocrine Related Cancer 14 3 655 667 bis 1 oxy 2 pyridinethiolato oxovanadium IV and other vanadium compounds Bhuiyan et al. Expert Opinion on Therapeutic Targets October 2008 Vol. 12 No. 10 Pages 1217 1227 pervanadate and platelet derived growth factor Bozinovski et al. Analytical Biochemistry 2002 305 32 39 L alpha Phosphatidyl inositol 3 4 5 tris phosphate Tang et al. Invest. Opthalmol. Vis. Sci. 43 E Abstract 772 carboxy terminal modulator protein CTMP Franke T. F. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol Oct. 3 2007 . doi 10.1152 ajpcell.00451.2007 stem cell factor SCF and heregulin Hines et al. Breast Cancer Research and Treatment 58 1 10 1999 insulin Cenni et al. J. Proteome Res. 2008 7 11 4727 4735 brain derived neurotrophic factor BDNF Nakazawa et al. Invest Opthalmol V is Sci 2004 45 E Abstract 872 hepatocyte growth factor Elghazi et al. Diabetes Obesity and Metabolism 9 Suppl. 2 2007 147 157 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 phenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzof uran 5 yl isoindoline 5 6 dichloro 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 phenyl 2 3 dih ydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 5 6 dimethoxy 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 phenyl 2 3 di hydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methylphenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 5 6 dichloro 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methylpheny 1 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 5 6 dimethoxy 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methylphen yl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 2 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 5 6 dichloro 2 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 2 3 4 isopropylphenyl 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 5 6 dichloro 2 3 4 isopropylphenyl 2 2 4 6 7 penta methyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 5 6 dimethoxy 2 3 4 isopropylphenyl 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 6 3 4 isopropylphenyl 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 2 3 di hydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl 6 7 dihydro 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 f isoindole 2 3 4 isopropylphenyl 2 4 6 7 tetramethyl 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 6 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methylphenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl 6H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 f isoindole 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 6 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 phenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzo furan 5 yl 6 7 dihydro 5H 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 f isoindole 5 6 dimethoxy 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methylphenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 5 6 dimethoxy 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methyl lphenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline 5 6 dimethoxy 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methyl lphenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline hydrochloride 5 6 dimethoxy 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methylphenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline hydrochloride 5 6 dimethoxy 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methyl lphenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline hydrobromide 5 6 dimethoxy 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methyl lphenyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl isoindoline hydrobromide 5 6 dimethoxy 2 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl 3 4 methylphe nyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuran 5 yl 2H isoindole and other compounds of Formula I US Patent Application Publication No. 20050148650 and an agonist anti Akt antibody.

In certain aspects of the invention drawn to a diabetic embryopathy or treating a diabetic embryopathy a diabetic embryopathy includes for example a central nervous system CNS abnormality anomaly or malformation including for example neural tube defect nencephaly holoprosencephaly hydrocephalus absent corpus callosum Arnold Chiari anomaly schizencephaly microcephaly macrocephaly agenesis of olfactory tracts intracranial lipoma facial nerve palsy calcified falx cerebi abnormal undergrowth or overgrowth of the brain postnatal developmental delay a cardiovascular abnormality anomaly or malformation including for example complex transposition of the great vessels single ventricle or atria hypoplastic left heart tricuspid atresia tetralogy of fallot ventricular septal defect atrial septal defect double outflow right ventricle pulmonary atresia coarctation of the aorta subaortic stenosis right aortic arch tricuspid regurgitation cleft mitral valve symmetric hypertrophy of interventricular septum hypertrophic cardiomyopathy a gastrointestinal abnormality anomaly or malformation including for example situs inversus pyloric stenosis duodenal atresia small bowel atresias small left colon microcolon syndrome rectal atresia anal atresia imperforate anus meckel diverticulum diaphragmatic hernia omphalo enteric cyst fistula a genitourinary abnormality anomaly or malformation including for example renal agenesis cystic kidneys ectopic kidney hydronephrosis ureteral duplication ureterocele ambiguous genitalia hypospadias micropenis cryptorchidism uterine agenesis hypoplastic vagina a skeletal abnormality anomaly or malformation including for example hand anomalies or limb reduction defects e.g. radial clubbing bifid thumbs hypoplastic absent thumb radial hypoplasia polysyndactyl contractures costovertebral anomalies e.g. fused cervical vertebrae hemivertebrae torticolis bifid fused ribs hip dislocation femoral hypoplasia caudal regression e.g. agenesis of sacrum and lumbar spine hypoplasia of the lower extremities phocomelia craniosynostosis a facial abnormality anomaly or malformation including for example hemifacial microsomia oculoauriculovertebral anomalies macrostomia lateral facial cleft cleft lip palate micrognathia branchial cleft cyst frontonasal dysplasia choanal atresia short nose nasal milia fat pad across nose facial skin tags an eye abnormality anomaly or malformation including for example lens opacity cataracts microophthalmia optic nerve hypoplasia colobomas of iris or chorioretina anterior chamber dysgenesis epibulbar dermoid oculolipoma laterally displaced inner canthi tear duct obstruction an ear abnormality anomaly or malformation including for example microtia sensorineural conductive hearing loss preauricular tags anotia atretic ear canal or a skin abnormality anomaly or malformation including for example aplasia cutis cutaneous vascular dysplasia .

In certain aspects of the invention drawn to a diabetic embryopathy or treating a diabetic embryopathy an agent described herein can be used in combination with another agent described herein or another method of treating a diabetic embryopathy. Another method of treating a diabetic embryopathy includes for example a multi nutrient supplement regimen U.S. Pat. No. 7 438 933 .

Thus example methods of treating a diabetic embryopathy provided herein may include administering to a mammal in need thereof at least one agent that modulates the activity of at least one polypeptide selected from the group consisting of ASK JNK ERK and Akt and at least one other agent. Example methods of treating a diabetic embryopathy also include administering to a mammal in need thereof at least one agent that modulates the activity of at least one polypeptide selected from the group consisting of ASK JNK ERK and Akt and providing or administering a multi nutrient supplement regimen to the mammal.

In certain aspects of the invention drawn to administering an agent of the invention routes of administration and dosage are known or can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. Described below are for illustrative purposes only routes of administration and dosages. The illustration specifically teaches administration of an agent that modulates JNK. However one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that the below description and teachings not only apply to an agent that modulates JNK but also to any other agent of the invention that modulates the activity of for example ASK1 ERK and Akt.

Methods of administering an agent that modulates JNK and optionally a second agent include but are not limited to parenteral administration e.g. intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intravenous and subcutaneous epidural and mucosal e.g. intranasal rectal vaginal sublingual buccal or oral routes . In a specific embodiment the agent that modulates JNK and optionally a second agent are administered intramuscularly intravenously or subcutaneously. The agent that modulates JNK and optionally a second agent can also be administered by infusion or bolus injection and can be administered together with another agent or method of treating a diabetic embryopathy. Administration can be local or systemic. The agent that modulates JNK and optionally a second agent and their physiologically acceptable salts and solvates can also be administered by inhalation or insufflation either through the mouth or the nose . In one embodiment local or systemic parenteral administration is used.

In specific embodiments it can be desirable to administer the agent that modulates JNK locally to the area in need of treatment. This can be achieved for example and not by way of limitation by local infusion during surgery topical application e.g. in conjunction with a wound dressing after surgery by injection by means of a catheter by means of a suppository or by means of an implant said implant being of a porous non porous or gelatinous material including membranes such as sialastic membranes or fibers.

Pulmonary administration can also be employed e.g. by use of an inhaler or nebulizer and formulation with an aerosolizing agent or via perfusion in a fluorocarbon or synthetic pulmonary surfactant. In certain embodiments the agent that modulates JNK can be formulated as a suppository with traditional binders and vehicles such as triglycerides.

In another embodiment the agent that modulates JNK can be delivered in a vesicle in particular a liposome see Langer 1990 Science 249 1527 1533 Treat et al. in Liposomes in the Therapy of Infectious Disease and Cancer Lopez Berestein and Fidler eds. Liss New York pp. 353 365 1989 Lopez Berestein ibid. pp. 317 327 see generally ibid. .

In yet another embodiment the agent that modulates JNK can be delivered in a controlled release system. In one embodiment a pump can be used see Langer supra Sefton 1987 CRC Crit. Ref. Biomed. Eng. 14 201 Buchwald et al. 1980 Surgery 88 507 Saudek et al. 1989 N. Engl. J. Med. 321 574 . In another embodiment polymeric materials can be used see Medical Applications of Controlled Release Langer and Wise eds. CRC Pres. Boca Raton Fla. 1974 Controlled Drug Bioavailability Drug Product Design and Performance Smolen and Ball eds. Wiley N.Y. 1984 Ranger and Peppas 1983 J. Macromol. Sci. Rev. Macromol. Chem. 23 61 see also Levy et al. 1985 Science 228 190 During et al. 1989 Ann Neurol. 25 351 Howard et al. 1989 J. Neurosurg. 71 105 . In yet another embodiment a controlled release system can be placed in proximity of the target of the agent that modulates JNK e.g. the liver thus requiring only a fraction of the systemic dose see e.g. Goodson in Medical Applications of Controlled Release supra vol. 2 pp. 115 138 1984 . Other controlled release systems discussed in the review by Langer Science 1990 249 1527 1533 can be used.

The amount of the agent that modulates JNK that is effective in the treatment prevention or management of a diabetic embryopathy can be determined by standard research techniques. For example the dosage of the agent that modulates JNK that will be effective in the treatment a diabetic embryopathy can be determined by administering the agent that modulates JNK in an animal model e.g. the animal models known to those skilled in the art . In addition in vitro assays can optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges.

Selection of a particular effective dose can be determined e.g. via clinical trials by a skilled artisan based upon the consideration of several factors which will be known to one skilled in the art. Such factors include the disease to be treated or prevented the symptoms involved the patient s body mass the patient s immune status and other factors known by the skilled artisan.

The precise dose to be employed in the formulation will also depend on the route of administration and the seriousness and nature of the diabetic embryopathy which should be decided according to the judgment of the practitioner and each patient s circumstances. Effective doses can be extrapolated from dose response curves derived from in vitro or animal model test systems.

The dose of agent that modulates JNK to be administered to a patient such as a human is rather widely variable and can be subject to independent judgment. It is often practical to administer the daily dose of an agent that modulates JNK at various hours of the day. However in any given case the amount of an agent that modulates JNK administered will depend on such factors as the solubility of the active component the formulation used patient condition such as weight and or the route of administration.

The general range of effective amounts of an agent that modulates JNK alone or in combination with a second agent are from about 0.001 mg day to about 1000 mg day from about 0.001 mg day to 750 mg day from about 0.001 mg day to 500 mg day 0.001 mg day to 250 mg day from about 0.001 mg day to 100 mg day from about 0.001 mg day to 75 mg day from about 0.001 mg day to 50 mg day from about 0.001 mg day to 25 mg day from about 0.001 mg day to 10 mg day from about 0.001 mg day to 1 mg day. Of course it is often practical to administer the daily dose of an agent of the invention in portions at various hours of the day. However in any given case the amount of an agent of the invention administered will depend on such factors as the solubility of the active component the formulation used subject condition such as weight and or the route of administration.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain particular embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the appended claims is not to be limited to the specific embodiments described.

In order to study maternal diabetes associated embryopathy an animal model has been generated in which for example streptozotocin STZ is used to induce diabetes in female rats. Glucose levels are controlled by reintroducing insulin in the form of a removable implanted pellet. This type of animal model which has been widely used has a number of advantages over spontaneous diabetic animal models. First glucose levels can be controlled by changing the amount of insulin introduced. Second diabetes can be induced at desired developmental stages by removing the insulin pellet at the appropriate time. Similar models have also been used by other researchers in this field with similar reported outcomes.

To induce diabetes 8 week old Sprague Dawley female rats are injected with 65 mg kg of streptozotocin via the tail vein. Blood glucose levels are monitored daily by tail vein puncture using a lancet using a PRESTIGE SMART blood glucose meter Home Diagnostics Fort Lauderdale Fla. . Once a level of hyperglycemia indicative of diabetes 250 mg dl is achieved a sustained release insulin pellet is inserted subcutaneously. When glucose levels are restored to normal 80 150 mg dl and are stable for at least three continuous days matings can be set up with male rats of the same strain. Day zero of pregnancy is established by identifying spermatozoa in vaginal smears. At designated developmental stages insulin pellets are withdrawn to generate hyperglycemia in the pregnant rats. A group of control rats continue to receive insulin during the course of the experiment. Glucose levels and maternal weight are continuously monitored during the pregnancy. Since it has already been shown that there is no difference in embryonic development between streptozotocin insulin treated and non streptozotocin treated animals the streptozotocin insulin treated groups are used as an equivalent of non diabetic control. At the end of the experiment rats are euthanized and embryos dissected out of the uterus for examination and analysis. At least four pregnant rats are included in each group from which 40 60 embryos can be obtained for examination. For each type of study replicate experiments are carried out.

The embryos are characterized morphologically in terms of growth and structural abnormality. Embryonic growth can be determined by the size of embryo including head rump length and body weight. Structural abnormality includes agenesis hypoplasia incomplete neural tube closure microcephaly cardiac defects and incorrect body curvature. Specimens are also sectioned and examined at the histological level. Attention is given to the organs that have been documented to be negatively affected by hyperglycemia.

While an in vivo diabetic animal model provides important information about morphological and molecular changes during development it may be difficult to treat the embryos in utero with an agent of the invention. To delineate the roles of factors in hyperglycemia associated embryonic malformation a whole embryo culture system can be used in which the embryos are exposed to different glucose concentrations. It has been validated that this type of whole embryo culture mimics in vivo development of an embryo under maternal diabetes. In this culture system the embryos are treated with an agent of the invention that modulates the activity of specific factors and components of signaling pathways. A whole embryo culture system modified from the roller bottle system has been routinely used. This culture system allows embryos from stages E8.5 to E12.5 to develop normally in vitro for 48 72 hours with controlled oxygen levels that mimic conditions in utero. Therefore it is a useful reliable and manipulatable system for studying early embryogenesis and organogenesis.

Embryos at different stages of gestation are dissected out of uterus with the yolk sacs intact. The embryos are then cultured in rat serum five embryos bottle at 38 C. with rotation at 30 revolutions per minute. Glucose is added to the cultures to generate euglycemic 80 150 mg dl and various hyperglycemic 300 mg dl 600 mg dl 950 mg dl conditions. Embryos are treated with an agent of the invention under hyperglycemic and control conditions for 24 72 hours. At the end of culture embryos are collected for morphological and histological examination and biochemical analyses. At least 10 embryos are included in each group.

The maternal diabetic animal model and embryo culture described above provide useful systems for investigating the effects of hyperglycemia on embryogenesis and the mechanisms by which hyperglycemia causes developmental malformations. To delineate the molecular mechanisms in depth a cell culture system is used to test various hypotheses at cellular and molecular levels. For example NIH 3T3 fibroblasts which are derived from murine embryonic cells are suitable for delineating the molecular mechanisms of hyperglycemia induced embryopathy. 3T3 cells can be purchased from American Type Culture Collection ATCC Manassas Va. and maintained in conditions recommended by ATCC. For each experiment cells are plated and grown to desired density before treatment. After treatment cells are harvested at different time points for cellular and molecular analyses. Primary embryonic cells from the tissues affected by hyperglycemia can also be examined to investigate if there are cell type specific effects.

To investigate the effects of maternal hyperglycemia on embryonic malformations the inventors employed a rat model that induces diabetes by streptozotocin STZ as described above. Subcutaneously implanted insulin pellets maintained euglycemia at the time of mating. On day 4 of pregnancy the insulin pellets were removed and the developing embryos were exposed to hyperglycemia during organogenesis days 9 12 . To maintain a euglycemic control insulin pellets were retained in the body during the entire experimental course. On day 12 rats were euthanized embryos were dissected out of the uteri for examination and each embryo s yolk sac was collected for biochemical and molecular analyses.

After removal from the dams embryos were examined under a dissecting microscope and assessed for morphological malformations in a number of categories to determine the effects of maternal hyperglycemia. Embryos were classified as normal if examination revealed correct body flexure both anterior and posterior neural pole closure and grossly normal heart. Embryos were classified as malformed if they showed evidence of neural tube defects NTDs or other malformations including cardiac abnormalities incorrect body curvature reverse tail flexion and microcephaly. The results demonstrate that malformation rates as assessed by morphological defects in the diabetic rats are more than 6 fold higher than that in non diabetic control rats or in euglycemic control rats whose insulin pellets were left in place.

To further demonstrate that hyperglycemia plays a role in increased malformation rates in the embryos an in vitro embryo culture model was used in which experimental conditions can be precisely controlled. Embryos at E10 were cultured in control medium consisting of 80 vol vol rat serum in which glucose concentration was 150 mg dl. Embryos were treated with various concentrations of glucose. After 24 hours of culture control embryos developed normally into E11 like embryos. However embryos treated with high concentrations of glucose 300 mg dl 600 mg dl and 950 mg dl exhibited abnormalities of the neural tube heart pericardium and body flexion. These phenotypes are similar to those seen in in vivo models of diabetes indicating that hyperglycemia directly affects embryonic development in vitro in a manner corresponding to that seen in vivo. These experiments demonstrate that high concentrations of glucose have teratogenic effects on embryos and whole embryo culture provides a powerful experimental system to test various aspects of hyperglycemic effects on embryonic development.

Experiments were conducted to study potential changes in the levels of phosphorylated MAPKs resulting from maternal hyperglycemia. While there are many MAPKs the following studies focus on two families the ERKs ERK 1 and 2 and JNKs JNK 1 and 2 for two primary reasons. First several lines of evidence indicate that ERK and JNK are involved in cell survival and cell death. Second these factors have also been associated with diabetic complications and with development of embryos and cells under hyperglycemic conditions. The roles of ERK 1 and 2 and JNK 1 and 2 in diabetic embryopathy however have not been extensively studied.

The active forms of ERK and JNK are phosphorylated so their activation in yolk sac tissues is assessed by Western blot detection of the corresponding phosphoproteins. The levels of phosphorylated Raf 1 which activates ERKs and Akt which is an antiapototic protein were also assessed by western blot. Yolk sac tissues were isolated protein was extracted and analyzed using Western blotting with antibodies specific for phosphorylated ERK 1 and 2 p ERK1 2 JNK 1 and 2 p JNK1 2 RAF 1 and Akt . Levels of p ERK1 2 Raf 1 and Akt were dramatically decreased in yolk sac cells of malformed embryos as compared to those of normal embryos from diabetic or non diabetic mothers control groups C and D . In contrast p JNK1 2 was significantly increased in the yolk sac cells of malformed embryos from diabetic rats as compared to those from the two control groups . These findings suggest that maternal diabetes alters activation of ERK and JNK kinases and supports that hyperglycemia induced diabetic embryopathies are associated with changes in stress activated MAPK signaling pathways.

To determine the role of ASK1 in diabetic embryopathy phopho ASK1 pASK1 levels were evaluated in the neural tube of embryos taken from experiment subjects. The neural tube was dissected from normally developed E11 embryos from non diabetic mice NC or diabetic mice NDM and from malformed E11 embryos from diabetic mice MDM . pASK1 levels were increased in neural tubes of malformed embryos from MDM mice compared to levels in neural tubes of NC and NDM mice . Increased levels of pASK1 correlated with increased levels of pJNK1 2 in MDM groups compared to those in NC and NDM groups suggesting that ASK1 mediates hyperglycemia induced JNK1 2 activation.

To further confirm that maternal hyperglycemia activates ASK1 immunoprecipitation was used to determine the interaction between ASK1 and TRX 1. TRX 1 is an endogenous suppressor of ASK1 and is constantly associated with non active ASK1 at normal physiological states. Upon oxidative stress ROS oxidizes TRX 1 which subsequently dissociates from ASK1 leading to ASK1 phosphorylation. ASK1 protein complexes were immunoprecipitated in lysates of E9 embryos from NC and DM mice using a specific ASK1 antibody. Subsequently levels of TRX1 were determined in ASK1 immunoprecipitates by immunoblotting. TRX 1 levels in DM ASK1 immunoprecipitates were significantly lower than those in NC ASK1 immunoprecipitates demonstrating that maternal hyperglycemia induces disassociation of ASK1 TRX 1 complexes leading to ASK1 activation . E9 embryos were used because hyperglycemia equivalently imposes adverse effects on every E9 embryos a critical time point of neurulation occurring at E8 E10 before morphologically manifested in NTDs at E10 onwards.

Since JNK1 2 activation involves the induction of diabetic embryopathy and ASK1 leads to JNK1 2 activation it is contemplated that ASK1 activation is responsible for maternal diabetes induced NTDs i.e. diabetic embryopathy . To determine if ASK1 deficiency in ASK1 knock out JNKS1KO mice abrogates diabetic embryopathy E11 embryos were isolated from NC DM and diabetic ASK1KO DM ASK1KO and examined for NTDs. In eleven DM ASK1KO diabetic mice with total recovery of 68 embryos average malformation rate was 2.81 and this malformation rate were significantly lower than that in embryos from DM mice 27.4 while it was no significant difference when compared to the NC group Table 1 . Similar resorption rates were observed among the three groups thus eliminating the possibility that the reduction of malformation rates in the DM ASK1KO mice is due to the increase in embryo resorption. These data provide strong evidence that ASK1 is critically involved in the induction of diabetic embryopathy.

An agent of the invention including for example an agent that modulates ASK1 activity JNK activity ERK activity and Akt activity is evaluated for its ability treat a diabetic embryopathy by using an experimental model described herein or one known by one of ordinary skill in the art. Briefly starting from day 1 of pregnancy diabetic rats are administered an agent of the invention whereas non diabetic rats are not administered an agent of the invention. At E12 embryos are dissected out of uteri and evaluated for neural tube defects NTDs which is used as a measure of malformation rates i.e. a measure of diabetic embryopathy .

Non human primates are closely related to humans with respect to physiology and pathophysiology. It is well accepted that the use of non human primates in research and the result obtained therefrom can have a high correlation and applicability to humans. Considering this the inventors of the present invention use non human primates to determine the effectiveness of an agent of the invention to treat a diabetic embryopathy. The general scheme of using a non human primate is discussed below. To determine the effectiveness of an agent of the invention an agent is administered in a therapeutically effective amount.

Nonpregnant baboons Papio anubis housed in the primate colony existing at the University of Maryland School of Medicine and weighing approximately 12 kg are untreated n 5 or treated with Streptozotocin STZ 60 mg kg body weight iv n 20 to induce type 1 diabetes. Glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels are assessed in blood samples 1 ml collected daily overnight fasting after STZ administration and a glucose tolerance test conducted to confirm the diabetic state. Once hyperglycemia serum glucose levels expected to exceed 500 mg dl and diabetes are induced human insulin will be administered continuously via an osmotic pump inserted subcutaneously to maintain a euglycemic state serum glucose levels of 80 100 mg dl . 30 days after STZ treatment untreated and insulin treated type I diabetic baboons are paired with male baboons for 5 days at the periovulatory phase of the menstrual cycle and pregnancy confirmed by ultrasound at 20 days of gestation. Insulin will continue to be delivered to maintain a euglycemic state in pregnant baboons until day 20 of gestation.

Formation of the central nervous i.e. neural tube and cardiovascular i.e. blood islands cardiac primordium systems begins at 22 28 days i.e. 8 10 of human gestation Kurjak and Chervenak 2003 Sadler 1995 or 15 18 days of baboon gestation term in baboons is 184 days . By 49 days i.e. 18 of human gestation or 33 days of baboon gestation the prosencephalon mesencephalon and rhombencephalon of the brain and the atria ventricles and septa of the heart have developed. By week 12 of human pregnancy or day 60 of baboon pregnancy neural and cardiovascular development is well advanced. The greatest risk of embryonic malformations peak period of susceptibility to teratogenesis occurs at 3 8 weeks of human gestation Sadler 1995 i.e. 8 20 of gestation or 15 37 days of baboon pregnancy .

Therefore to expose the baboon embryo fetus to hyperglycemia during the latter intervals the rate of insulin delivery to the mother will be decreased to a level that elicits serum glucose levels of 300 500 mg dl between days 20 and 60 of gestation. Day 20 is the earliest time that pregnancy can be detected in the baboon by ultrasonography. Between days 60 and 100 of gestation insulin delivery will be restored to a level that maintains serum glucose at 80 100 mg dl. The levels of glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin to monitor euglycemic state and PGF2 and malondialdehyde biomarkers of oxidative stress and lipoperoxidation are determined using maternal blood samples obtained at 1 2 day intervals throughout days 20 100. Fetal growth and organ system development are assessed by doppler ultrasonography at 10 day intervals between day 20 of gestation and the day of cesarean section.

The fetus and placenta are removed via cesarean section under isoflurance anesthesia on day 100 of gestation i.e. midgestation . Day 100 is selected because embryonic fetal development will be advanced baboon fetal body weight approx 175 g and the difficulty in carrying diabetic animals to term will be avoided. Since approximately 20 of the fetuses of diabetic pregnancies exhibit overt malformation it is expected that 4 of the 20 diabetic baboons will show marked embryopathy. However important data is expected to emerge from the remaining fetuses of diabetic animals that do not show obvious gross developmental malformation.

To determine that an agent of the invention is protective against diabetic embryopathy an agent of the invention is administered to diabetic baboons to reduce or inhibit fetal malformation. Untreated n 5 and STZ treated n 20 pregnant baboons are administered an agent of the invention daily by for example maternal subcutaneoudy injection between days 20 and 60 of gestation. The same parameters for assessment of fetal development throughout pregnancy and after cesarean section detailed herein are employed.

Although the invention has been described in example embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore to be understood that the inventions herein may be practiced other than as specifically described. Thus the present embodiments should be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly it is intended that such changes and modifications fall within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims appended hereto.

All patents and publications mentioned in this specification are indicative of the level of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. All patents and publications herein are incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually indicated as having been incorporated by reference in its entirety.

