---

title: User device identification using a pseudo device identifier
abstract: A system configured to receive a first request to generate a pseudo identifier associated with a user device; retrieve an identifier associated with the user device; and generate, using a mathematical function, the pseudo identifier based on the identifier associated with the user device, where the pseudo identifier may be generated in a format corresponding to a telephone number. The system is further configured to send a second request to register the user device, where the second request may include the pseudo identifier; receive a confirmation code that permits the user device to access information, associated with the server device, without using the identifier associated with the user device or a telephone number associated with the user device; send a third request for information associated with the server device, where the third request may include the confirmation code; and receive the information associated with the server device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08369834&OS=08369834&RS=08369834
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08369834
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100924
---
Computing and communication devices are capable of performing an increasing variety of functions and tasks that continue to improve the user s experience. Computing and communication devices can run a variety of applications can connect to a variety of wired and wireless networks can perform point of sale transactions to purchase goods and or services and or can download content which can be stored and or displayed on the computing and communicating devices.

A computing and communication device may use a device identifier such as a mobile directory number MDN and or other information when communicating with another device which may enable the other device to identify and or authenticate the computing and communication device. Unfortunately the device identifier can be compromised in a manner that enables another computing and communication device to use the identifier without authorization.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Systems and or methods described herein may enable a user device to communicate with another device using a pseudo device identifier. The pseudo device identifier may ensure that a device identifier associated with the user device cannot be used in an unauthorized manner. Also some types and or brands of user devices may enforce policies that do not permit certain identifiers to be used as identifying information e.g. a mobile directory number MDN . In this case the pseudo device identifier may permit a user device to provide identifying information while continuing to enforce the policies that do not permit certain identifiers to be used as identifying information.

A service provider network associated with the user device may use a device identifier e.g. a MDN and or other information to identify and or authenticate the user device before permitting the user device to access services associated with the service provider network. In one example implementation a digital video recorder DVR mobile application hereinafter referred to as a mobile DVR application hosted on the user device may use a mathematical function e.g. a hash function cryptographic function and or some other function to generate a unique number that is based on a device identifier e.g. serial number etc. uniquely associated with the user device. The mobile DVR application may perform an operation to convert the unique number into a unique pseudo device identifier hereinafter referred to as a pseudo MDN that is in a format of a telephone number e.g. an MDN which enables the service provider network to process the pseudo MDN.

In another example implementation the mobile DVR application may use the pseudo MDN to associate a user device with another network device such as a server device a set top box STB etc. The association may permit the user device to access monitor and or control information associated with the network device. In one example the association may permit the user device to access and or use DVR information e.g. DVR recording schedules playback schedules parental control settings search television content etc. associated with a STB from a location that is remote from the STB. As described herein the mobile DVR application may use the pseudo MDN to register the user device and or to enable the user device to access the DVR information. The provisioning may include receiving a unique confirmation code e.g. based on a mathematical function or some other function associated with the set top box which the user device may use to access the DVR information.

Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of network may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of network . For example application server and backend server may be integrated into a single device. Components of network may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

User device may include any computation or communication device such as a wireless mobile communication device that is capable of communicating with network . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a personal computer a camera a personal gaming system or another type of computation or communication device.

In one example implementation user device may host a mobile DVR application to monitor and control DVR information associated with set top box . For example the mobile DVR application may perform an operation to create a pseudo MDN uniquely associated with user device . The mobile DVR application may for example retrieve a device identifier associated with user device e.g. a serial number associated with user device and may use the device identifier to generate a unique number of a particular length e.g. a particular quantity of digits based on a mathematical function such as a hash function e.g. a Bernstein based hash function or some other hash function a cryptographic function e.g. a secure hash algorithm SHA based function or some other cryptographic function or some other mathematical function.

The DVR application may use the generated number to create a unique pseudo MDN that is based on and or compatible with a North American Numbering Plan NANP telephone number format such as an area code e.g. a three digit number an exchange code e.g. a three digit number and or a subscriber number e.g. a four digit number . However the mobile DVR application may perform a conversion operation to ensure that the pseudo MDN is not the same as a telephone number or another pseudo MDN. Alternatively or additionally the DVR application may create the unique pseudo MDN based on another telephone number format e.g. associated with another country another standard etc. .

User device may perform a registration operation in order to communicate with other network devices. In one example implementation user device may perform a registration operation in order to access DVR information associated with STB . For example the mobile DVR application may send a registration request to application server that includes the pseudo MDN and or other information associated with user device and or a user of user device . Application server may process the request and may send a confirmation code associated with STB to user device that enables user device to access DVR information stored on STB .

The description to follow will generally refer to user device as a wireless mobile communication device. The description is not limited however to a wireless mobile communication device and may equally apply to other types of user devices.

Application server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. Application server may communicate via network . In one example application server may receive a registration request from user device that includes a pseudo MDN associated with user device and application server may authenticate user device based on information associated with user device and or information associated with a user of user device e.g. username password personal identification number PIN etc. . Application server may store the pseudo MDN in a memory associated with application server and may use the pseudo MDN at a future point in time to authenticate user device . Application server may send the pseudo MDN to STB and or backend server . In an example implementation application server may register user device by generating a confirmation code based on a device identifier associated with STB and may send a notification to user device e.g. that includes the confirmation code indicating that user device has been registered. In another example implementation application may send the pseudo MDN to STB that permits STB to perform the registration.

Application server may determine that a pseudo MDN associated with user device is not a unique pseudo MDN. For example application server may compare the received pseudo MDN to other pseudo MDNs stored in the memory. If the pseudo MDN matches one of the stored pseudo MDNs application server may send information associated with user device to backend server to obtain a unique pseudo MDN.

Application server may synchronize DVR information between STB and backend server . For example user device may communicate with STB via application server when accessing DVR information and may change DVR information stored by STB e.g. by scheduling television content playback or programming recording sessions performing searches etc. . Application server may identify changes in the DVR information associated with the STB and may send the changes in DVR information to backend server .

Backend server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. Backend server may communicate via network . In one example implementation backend server may generate a pseudo MDN based on an instruction received from application server . For example backend server may receive an instruction from application server to generate a unique pseudo MDN associated with user device based on a determination e.g. by application server that a pseudo MDN generated by user device is not a unique pseudo MDN e.g. there is another pseudo MDN that matches the pseudo MDN created by user device . In another example implementation backend server may receive a pseudo MDN associated with user device and may determine in a manner similar to that described above that the received pseudo MDN is not unique.

Backend server may create another pseudo MDN in a manner similar to that described above and may generate a unique number based on a device identifier e.g. a serial number etc. associated with user device . Backend server may for example generate a unique number using on a mathematical function e.g. a hash function a cryptographic function or some other mathematical function . Additionally or alternatively backend server may use the generated number to create a unique pseudo MDN that corresponds to the NANP telephone number format.

The other pseudo MDN created by backend server may be different than the pseudo MDN created by user device . For example backend server may perform a modified conversion operation that converts the generated number into the other pseudo MDN that corresponds to the NANP format. Additionally or alternatively the modified conversion operation may ensure that the other pseudo MDN does not match a telephone number or another MDN. Backend server may send the other pseudo MDN to user device application server and or STB .

STB may include a device that can receive and process an enhanced media stream received from network for display on a video display device associated with STB . In one example implementation STB may be incorporated directly within a video display device e.g. a television a monitor etc. . In another example implementation STB may be replaced with a computing device e.g. a personal computer a laptop computer a tablet computer etc. a cable card a TV tuner card or a portable communication device e.g. a mobile telephone or a PDA . STB may perform decoding and or decryption functions on the enhanced media stream. STB may present DVR information for display on a video display device associated with STB . STB may store DVR information and may receive instructions associated with using monitoring and or controlling the DVR information. For example STB may receive an instruction from a user of STB and or via a registered user device to program a DVR application to record television content at a particular time. In another example STB may receive an instruction to schedule a time to playback recorded television content. In yet another example STB may receive an instruction to set parental controls perform a search for additional DVR content obtain on demand context etc.

STB may register user device to access DVR information. For example STB may receive a registration request from user device via application server that includes a pseudo MDN associated with user device . STB may store the pseudo MDN in a memory associated with STB and may register user device to access DVR information stored on STB by generating a confirmation code. For example STB may in a manner similar to that described above generate a unique number based on a unique device identifier associated with STB and using a mathematical function e.g. a hash function a cryptographic function or some other mathematical function . Additionally or alternatively STB may use the generated number to create a confirmation code that corresponds to the NANP telephone number format in a manner similar to that described above. STB may send the confirmation code to user device application server and or backend server .

STB may permit user device to access DVR information. For example STB may receive a request from user device and via application server to access DVR information. The request may include credentials such as a confirmation code associated with STB and or a pseudo MDN associated with user device . STB may authenticate user device e.g. if application server did not authenticate user device based on the credentials and or may send DVR information to user device via application server . Additionally or alternatively STB may receive instructions to record television content schedule playback times for television content set parental controls obtain on demand context etc. and STB may record the television content schedule playback times for the television content set the parental controls obtain on demand context etc.

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network a public land mobile network PLMN a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network e.g. a long term evolution LTE network a fifth generation 5G network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a wide area network WAN a metropolitan network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network e.g. a FiOS network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

Although not shown in network may include a variety of other devices such as a video display device an authentication server etc. Each of these devices may perform certain functions described briefly below. Any of these functions may be performed by application server backup server and or STB . Thus one or more of these devices may be integrated into application server backup server and or STB .

A video display device may include any device capable of receiving and or reproducing video and or audio signals. In one implementation the video display device may take the form of a television. In another implementation the video display device may include a computer monitor a display of a communication device e.g. a telephone such as a VoIP telephone or a mobile telephone or a PDA or the like. The video display device may incorporate and or be connected to STB and may receive signals from STB containing television content and or DVR information for display.

The authentication server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that authenticate user device and or STB . For example the authentication server may receive a request to authenticate user device based on information associated with user device e.g. a pseudo MDN a confirmation code associated with STB and or information associated with a user of user device e.g. username password email address PIN etc. .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the user such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems via wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared and or visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as network .

As will be described in detail below device may perform certain operations relating to user device identification using a pseudo device identifier. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. A logical memory device may include memory space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Display may include a component to receive input electrical signals and present a visual output in the form of text images videos and or combinations of text images and or videos which communicate visual information to the user of user device . In one implementation display may display text input into user device text images and or video received from another device and or information regarding incoming or outgoing calls or text messages emails media games phone books address books the current time etc.

Control buttons may include one or more buttons that accept as input mechanical pressure from the user e.g. the user presses a control button or combinations of control buttons and send electrical signals to processor that may cause user device to perform one or more operations. For example control buttons may be used to cause user device to transmit information. Keypad may include a standard telephone keypad or another arrangement of keys.

Microphone may include a component to receive audible information from the user and send as output an electrical signal that may be stored by user device transmitted to another user device or cause the device to perform one or more operations. Camera may be provided on a back side of user device and may include a component to receive as input analog optical signals and send as output a digital image or video that can be for example viewed on display stored in the memory of user device discarded and or transmitted to another user device .

Although depicts example components of user device in other implementations user device may include fewer components additional components different components or differently arranged components than illustrated in . In still other implementations one or more components of user device may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of user device .

Processing unit may include a processor a microprocessor an ASIC a FPGA or the like. Processing unit may control operation of user device and its components. In one implementation processing unit may control operation of components of user device in a manner similar to that described herein. Memory may include a RAM a ROM and or another type of memory to store data and or instructions that may be used by processing unit .

User interface may include mechanisms for inputting information to user device and or for outputting information from user device . Examples of input and output mechanisms might include buttons e.g. control buttons keys of keypad a keyboard a joystick etc. a touch screen interface to permit data and control commands to be input into user device via display a biometric device to receive fingerprint scans retinal scans facial signatures etc. a speaker e.g. speaker to receive electrical signals and output audio signals a microphone e.g. microphone to receive audio signals and output electrical signals a display e.g. display to output visual information e.g. user interfaces web pages etc. a vibrator to cause user device to vibrate and or a camera e.g. camera to receive video and or images.

Communication interface may include for example a transmitter that may convert baseband signals from processing unit to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that may convert RF signals to baseband signals. Alternatively communication interface may include a transceiver to perform functions of both a transmitter and a receiver of wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. Communication interface may connect to antenna assembly for transmission and or reception of the RF signals.

Antenna assembly may include one or more antennas to transmit and or receive RF signals over the air. Antenna assembly may for example receive RF signals from communication interface and transmit them over the air and receive RF signals over the air and provide them to communication interface . In one implementation for example communication interface may communicate with a network and or devices connected to a network e.g. network .

As described in detail below user device may perform certain operations described herein in response to processing unit executing software instructions of an application contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Generate ID button may permit the user to instruct user device to generate a pseudo MDN that user device may use to communicate with a network device e.g. application server STB and or another network device . User device ID field may present a pseudo MDN associated with user device as a result of the instruction to generate the pseudo MDN e.g. when the user selected generate ID button . Send button may permit the user to send the pseudo MDN to another network device to register user device using the pseudo MDN that enables user device to communicate with the other network device. Confirmation code field may present a confirmation code received from the other network device as a result of registering user device based on the pseudo MDN. In another example implementation the confirmation code may be received from the other network device via a different channel e.g. via the mail via telephone via email via a video display associated with STB etc. . In this example the user may enter the confirmation code received via the different channel into confirmation code field . Save button may permit the confirmation code and or the pseudo MDN to be stored in a memory associated with user device .

For example the user may select generate ID button which may cause the mobile DVR application to retrieve a device identifier uniquely associated with user device e.g. a serial number associated with user device . The device identifier may be retrieved by the DVR application e.g. using an API in a manner that does not permit the device identifier to be accessed modified and or copied by a user. In one example implementation the serial number associated with user device may be of a particular length or quantity of digits depending on a type and or brand of user device e.g. a serial number of an iPhone may be a length of 40 digits . The mobile DVR application may use the serial number to generate a unique number based on a mathematical function such as a hash function e.g. a Bernstein hash function or some other hash function a cryptographic function e.g. a secure hash algorithm SHA or some other cryptographic function or some other mathematical function. In one example implementation the generated number may be a nine digit number. In another implementation the generated number may be a number other than a nine digit number.

The mobile DVR application may perform a conversion operation on the generated number to create a unique pseudo MDN. In one example the conversion operation may create the pseudo MDN as a 10 digit number based on a North American Numbering Plan NANP telephone number format such as an area code e.g. a three digit number an exchange code e.g. a three digit number and or a subscriber number e.g. a four digit number . More particularly a NANP based telephone number may be based on a particular format such as XY Z where is a whole number in the range from 0 to 9 X is a whole number in the range from 2 to 9 Y is a whole number in the range from 0 to 8 and or Z is whole number in the range from 2 to 9. However to ensure that a pseudo MDN does not overlap an actual telephone number being used by any user devices the mobile DVR application may perform the conversion operation by setting a number corresponding to the Z position to a value other than two through nine e.g. such as 0 or 1 . In another example implementation the DVR application may perform the conversion operation in a manner that includes setting a number corresponding to the X position to a value other than two through nine. In yet another example implementation the DVR application may perform the conversion operation in a manner that includes setting a number corresponding to the Y position to a value other than zero through eight.

In one example the mobile DVR application may create the pseudo MDN by inserting a 1 into the generated number at a location that corresponds to the Z position e.g. the fourth position with respect to the NANP format described above. Inserting the 1 into the generated number may convert the generated number into a ten digit pseudo MDN that corresponds to the NANP format. Additionally or alternatively by inserting the 1 in the Z position the mobile DVR application may ensure that the pseudo MDN does not overlap another telephone number because the NANP format restricts the Z position of an NANP telephone number to a range between 2 and 9. The mobile DVR application may present the pseudo MDN for display e.g. 880 131 1422 via user device ID field e.g. and or may send the pseudo MDN to backend server via application server to verify that the pseudo MDN is unique.

In another example another pseudo MDN may be received from backend server based on a determination that the pseudo MDN is not unique. For example backend server may generate the other pseudo MDN using a modified conversion operation. For example backend server may perform the modified conversion operation by inserting a 0 into the generated number e.g. instead of the 1 that the mobile DVR application inserted at the location that corresponds to the Z position e.g. the fourth position with respect to the NANP format. Inserting the 0 into the generated number may convert the generated number into the other ten digit pseudo MDN that corresponds to the NANP format. Additionally or alternatively by inserting the 0 in the Z position backend server may ensure that the other pseudo MDN does not match a telephone number or another MDN because the NANP format restricts the Z position of an NANP telephone number to a range between 2 and 9. Backend server may send the other pseudo MDN to user device via application server and the mobile DVR application may present the other pseudo MDN for display e.g. 730 031 4576 via user device ID field .

In yet another example the user may select send button to register user device to another device based on the pseudo MDN e.g. or the other pseudo MDN . For example user device may send a registration request e.g. that includes the pseudo MDN other information associated with user device and or information associated with the user to STB via application server . STB may receive the registration request and may register user device that permits DVR information stored on STB to be accessed by device application based on the pseudo MDN. For example STB may in a manner similar to that described above generate a unique number e.g. a 9 digit number such as 730314576 based on a unique device identifier associated with STB e.g. using a hash function a cryptographic function or some other mathematical function . Additionally or alternatively STB may use the generated number to create a confirmation code based on the NANP telephone number format e.g. XY Z where is a whole number in a range from 0 to 9 X is a whole number in the range from 2 to 9 Y is a whole number in the range from 0 to 8 and or Z is whole number in the range from 2 to 9 . More particularly STB may insert a 0 or 1 into the generated number at a location that corresponds to the Z position e.g. the fourth position with respect to the NANP format described above. Inserting the 0 or 1 into the generated number may convert the generated number into a ten digit confirmation code e.g. 730 Z31 4576 becomes 730 031 4576 where Z 0 that corresponds to the NANP format. STB may send the confirmation number to user device and the mobile DVR application may present the confirmation number for display via confirmation code field . The user may save the confirmation code by selecting save button . In another example implementation STB may present the confirmation code to a video display associated with STB and the user may enter the confirmation code presented on the video display into the confirmation code field e.g. using keypad associated with user device .

As shown in process may include downloading a mobile DVR application and installing the mobile DVR application block . For example a user of user device may desire to access DVR information e.g. programmed television content recording schedules parental controls etc. and or to modify DVR information e.g. scheduling television content to be recorded to set up a television playback to perform searches for television content update parental controls etc. . The user may for example instruct user device to download a mobile DVR application from application server and or some other network device. User device may in response to the instruction send a request to application server to download the mobile DVR application. Application server may receive the request and may send the mobile DVR application to user device .

User device may receive the mobile DVR application and may store the mobile DVR application in a memory associated with user device . Additionally or alternatively user device may automatically present a set up UI e.g. set up UI of for display on user device . In another example implementation user device may present the set up UI as a result of the user pressing a button or series of buttons on user device in order to open mobile DVR application and or to navigate to the set up UI.

As also shown in process may include receiving a request to generate a user device identifier via a set up UI and retrieving information associated with user device in response to the request block . For example user device may receive a request to set up a user device identifier when the user selects a particular button e.g. generate ID button of on the set up UI e.g. set up UI of . The mobile DVR application may in response to the request retrieve information associated with user device . In one example implementation the mobile DVR application may use an API or a set of APIs to communicate with user device to obtain the information associated with user device in a manner that does not permit the information associated with user device to be accessed copied and or changed by a user. For example the mobile DVR application may use an OEM API associated with a type and or brand of user device to obtain from user device the information associated with user device . The information associated with user device may include a unique address associated with user device e.g. a MAC address an IP address etc. and or a unique device identifier e.g. a serial number a MEID an IMEI a MDN an IMSI an ESN a UICC identifier a MIN a MSISDN a NAI a CODEC number etc .

As further shown in process may include generating a number based on information associated with user device block . For example the mobile DVR application may in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to generate a number based on the information associated with user device . In one example the number may include a particular length e.g. a particular quantity of digits and or may be generated based on a device identifier e.g. serial number etc. associated with user device . In another example the number may be generated using a mathematical function e.g. a hash function a cryptographic function and or some other mathematical function . In one example implementation the generated number may be a nine digit number e.g. 880311422 that the mobile DVR application may use to convert to a pseudo MDN associated with user device . If in this example the generated number has less than nine digits then the mobile DVR application may insert a quantity of digits e.g. a quantity of zeros that may cause the generated number to be nine digits.

As yet further shown in process may include performing a conversion operation on the generated number to create a pseudo MDN block . For example the mobile DVR application may in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to perform a conversion operation on the generated number to create a pseudo MDN that corresponds to the NANP telephone number format e.g. a 10 digit number . Converting the generated number to a pseudo MDN e.g. a pseudo MDN that conforms to the NANP telephone number format permits a service provider network e.g. network to process the pseudo MDN in a manner similar to that in which an MDN is processed.

In one example the conversion operation may create a NANP based pseudo MDN according to the format XY Z where is a whole number in the range from 0 to 9 X is a whole number in the range from 2 to 9 Y is a whole number in the range from 0 to 8 and or Z is whole number in the range from 2 to 9. The mobile DVR application may perform the conversion operation by converting the generate number to a 10 digit number by inserting Z into a fourth position of the generated number e.g. 880 Z31 1422 where X 8 Y 8 Z is in the fourth position . Additionally or alternatively the mobile DVR application may set a number corresponding to the Z position to a value other than two through nine e.g. 880 Z31 1422 becomes 880 131 1422 when Z is set to 1 to create the pseudo MDN associated with user device . In another example implementation the DVR application may perform the conversion operation in a manner that includes setting a number corresponding to the X position to a value other than two through nine. In yet another example implementation the DVR application may perform the conversion operation in a manner that includes setting a number corresponding to the Y position to a value other than zero through eight.

As shown in process may include determining whether the pseudo MDN is unique block . For example user device may send the pseudo MDN to application server to determine whether the pseudo MDN is unique. Application server may receive the pseudo MDN and may compare the received pseudo MDN to other pseudo MDNs that are stored in a memory associated with application server to determine whether the received pseudo MDN matches any of the stored pseudo MDNs.

As also shown in if the uniqueness of a pseudo MDN cannot be verified block NO then process may include receiving another pseudo MDN block . For example application server may determine that the pseudo MDN matches another pseudo MDN stored in a memory associated with application server . Based on this determination application server may send to backend server an instruction to generate another pseudo MDN associated with user device . The instruction may include the pseudo MDN and or other information associated with user device e.g. a device identifier etc. and or information associated with the user of user device .

Backend server may receive the instruction and may in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to generate the other pseudo MDN using a modified conversion operation. For example backend server may generate a number based on information associated with user device e.g. a device identifier such as a serial number etc. using a mathematical function e.g. the hash function the cryptographic function and or another mathematical function . Backend server may perform the modified conversion operation by inserting a different number e.g. 0 than the number inserted by user device e.g. 1 into the generated number at the location that corresponds to the Z position e.g. the fourth position with respect to the NANP format. By inserting the 0 in the Z position backend server may ensure that the other pseudo MDN does not match a pseudo MDN a telephone number and or another MDN because the NANP format restricts the Z position of an NANP telephone number to a range between 2 and 9. Backend server may send the other pseudo MDN to user device via application server and user device may receive the other pseudo MDN.

As further shown in if the uniqueness of a pseudo MDN is verified block YES or another pseudo MDN is received block then process may include presenting the pseudo MDN or the other pseudo MDN for display via a set up UI block . For example application server may determine that the pseudo MDN does not match any of the stored pseudo MDNs and may store the pseudo MDN in a memory associated with application server . Additionally application server may send a notification to user device that verifies that the pseudo MDN is unique. Based on the determination that the pseudo MDN is unique or based on the receipt of the other pseudo MDN the mobile DVR application may present the pseudo MDN or the other pseudo MDN for display on user device via the set up UI e.g. set up UI of .

As yet further shown in process may include sending a registration request that includes the pseudo MDN or the other pseudo MDN block . For example user device may receive a request to register user device when the user presses a particular button e.g. send button on set up UI of . The mobile DVR application may in response to the registration request send a request to register user device to application server . The request may include the pseudo MDN or the other pseudo MDN information associated with user device and or information associated with the user.

Application server may authenticate user device based on the pseudo MDN stored in a memory associated with application server . Additionally or alternatively application server may authenticate user device based on information associated with user device and or information associated with the user e.g. username password PIN etc. . Based on the authentication application server may send the pseudo MDN or the other pseudo MDN to STB . STB may receive the pseudo MDN or the other pseudo MDN and STB may generate a confirmation code.

As still further shown in process may include receiving a confirmation code confirming registration and storing the confirmation code the pseudo MDN and or the other pseudo MDN block . For example STB may receive the pseudo MDN e.g. or the other pseudo MDN and may generate a confirmation code based on an identifier associated with STB . STB may for example use a mathematical function e.g. a hash function a cryptographic function and or another mathematical function to generate a number. The mathematical function may be the same mathematical function as that used by the mobile DVR application or a different mathematical function than that used by the mobile DVR application. In one implementation the generated number may be a nine digit number. In one example if the generated number is less than nine digits the STB may insert a quantity of digits e.g. a quantity of zeros that causes the generated number to be nine digits.

STB may in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to use the generated number to create a confirmation code that corresponds to the NANP telephone number format. More particularly STB may insert a 0 or 1 into the generated number at a location that corresponds to the Z position e.g. the fourth position with respect to the NANP format described above. In another example implementation STB may perform the conversion operation in a manner that includes setting a number corresponding to the X position to a value other than two through nine. In yet another example implementation STB may perform the conversion operation in a manner that includes setting a number corresponding to the Y position to a value other than zero through eight.

In another example implementation application server may generate the confirmation code and may send the confirmation code to STB . In yet another example implementation application server may instruct backend server to generate the confirmation code and backend server may send the confirmation code to STB via application server .

STB may store the confirmation code and or may send the confirmation code to user device . User device may receive the confirmation code and the mobile DVR application may present the confirmation code for display on a set up UI e.g. via set up UI of . User device may save the confirmation code the pseudo MDN and or the other pseudo MDN by selecting a particular button on the set up UI e.g. save button of .

In one example implementation the mobile DVR application may encrypt the confirmation code the pseudo MDN and or the other pseudo MDN prior to storing in the memory. The encrypting may prevent the confirmation code the pseudo MDN and or the other pseudo MDN from being accessed changed and or copied by an unauthorized user device and or a network device.

In another example implementation STB may present the confirmation code to a video display associated with STB and the user may enter the confirmation code presented on the video display into the confirmation code field e.g. using keypad associated with user device to be stored on user device .

As shown in process may include receiving a request to access DVR information block and sending in response to the request a pseudo MDN and or a confirmation code block . For example a user of user device may send a request to access DVR information stored on STB by pressing a particular button on user device and or by selecting a particular button on a DVR UI presented on user device . The mobile DVR application may receive the request and may retrieve from a memory associated with user device a pseudo MDN and or a confirmation code.

The mobile DVR application may send a request to access DVR information to application server . The request may include the pseudo MDN and or the confirmation code. Application server may receive the request and may authenticate user device based on the pseudo MDN. For example application server may compare the received pseudo MDN to pseudo MDNs stored in a memory e.g. a memory associated with application server to determine whether the received pseudo MDN matches a pseudo MDN stored in the memory. In one example application server may not authenticate user device if the pseudo MDN does not match any of the pseudo MDNs stored in the memory. Application server may send a notification to user device indicating that access to the DVR information is not authorized based on the determination that user device could not be authenticated.

In another example application server may authenticate user device if the pseudo MDN matches one or the pseudo MDNs stored in the memory. Application server may send the confirmation code to STB based on the determination that user device has been authenticated. STB may receive the confirmation code and may compare the confirmation code to a confirmation code stored in memory. Based on a determination that the received confirmation code matches the stored confirmation code STB may retrieve DVR information and may send the DVR information to user device via application server .

In another example implementation the request to access DVR information may include the confirmation code and application server and or STB may authenticate user device based on the confirmation code.

As further shown in process may include receiving DVR information and presenting the DVR information for display block . User device may receive the DVR information and may present via a DVR UI the DVR information on a display associated with user device . The user may use the mobile DVR application to view the DVR information via the DVR UI.

As yet further shown in process may include receiving instructions via a DVR UI and sending the instructions associated with DVR information block . The user may perform operations on the DVR information via the DVR UI. For example the user may schedule DVR recordings of television content may set and or update parental controls delete DVR information perform searches for television content from which DVR recordings may be scheduled etc. The user may perform an operation on the DVR information by pressing a particular button on user device and or by selecting a particular button on the DVR UI which may cause user device to send an instruction to STB via application server . The instruction may include the pseudo MDN and or the confirmation code. Application server may authenticate user device in the manner described above and or STB may perform operations in response to the instructions based on the confirmation code.

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention.

While series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that systems and methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions described above may be implemented as a component that performs one or more functions. A component as used herein may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software e.g. a processor executing software .

It should be emphasized that the terms comprises comprising when used in this specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the invention. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the invention includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

