---

title: Patient selectable knee joint arthroplasty devices
abstract: Disclosed herein are methods and devices for repairing articular surfaces in a knee joint. The articular surface repairs are customizable or highly selectable for each patient and geared toward providing optimal fit and function. Kits are also provided to enable customized repairs to be performed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08945230&OS=08945230&RS=08945230
owner: ConforMIS, Inc.
number: 08945230
owner_city: Bedford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100512
---
This application is also a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 10 997 407 filed Nov. 24 2004 entitled PATIENT SELECTABLE KNEE JOINT ARTHROPLASTY DEVICES which is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 10 752 438 filed Jan. 5 2004 entitled PATIENT SELECTABLE KNEE ARTHROPLASTY DEVICES which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 724 010 filed Nov. 25 2003 entitled PATIENT SELECTABLE JOINT ARTHROPLASTY DEVICES AND SURGICAL TOOLS FACILITATING INCREASED ACCURACY SPEED AND SIMPLICITY IN PERFORMING TOTAL AND PARTIAL JOINT ARTHROPLASTY which is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 10 305 652 entitled METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR ARTICULAR REPAIR filed Nov. 27 2002 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 10 160 667 filed May 28 2002 which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Ser. No. 60 293 488 entitled METHODS TO IMPROVE CARTILAGE REPAIR SYSTEMS filed May 25 2001 U.S. Ser. No. 60 363 527 entitled NOVEL DEVICES FOR CARTILAGE REPAIR filed Mar. 12 2002 and U.S. Ser. Nos. 60 380 695 and 60 380 692 entitled METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR CARTILAGE REPAIR and METHODS FOR JOINT REPAIR filed May 14 2002 all of which applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 681 750 filed Oct. 7 2003 entitled MINIMALLY INVASIVE JOINT IMPLANT WITH 3 DIMENSIONAL GEOMETRY MATCHING THE ARTICULAR SURFACES which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application 60 467 686 filed May 2 2003 entitled JOINT IMPLANTS and U.S. provisional patent application 60 416 601 filed Oct. 7 2002 entitled MINIMALLY INVASUVE JOINT IMPLANT WITH 3 DIMENSIONAL GEOMETRY MATCHING THE ARTICULAR SURFACES. 

The present invention relates to orthopedic methods systems and devices and more particularly relates to methods systems and devices for articular resurfacing in the knee.

There are various types of cartilage e.g. hyaline cartilage and fibrocartilage. Hyaline cartilage is found at the articular surfaces of bones e.g. in the joints and is responsible for providing the smooth gliding motion characteristic of moveable joints. Articular cartilage is firmly attached to the underlying bones and measures typically less than 5 mm in thickness in human joints with considerable variation depending on the joint and the site within the joint.

Adult cartilage has a limited ability of repair thus damage to cartilage produced by disease such as rheumatoid and or osteoarthritis or trauma can lead to serious physical deformity and debilitation. Furthermore as human articular cartilage ages its tensile properties change. The superficial zone of the knee articular cartilage exhibits an increase in tensile strength up to the third decade of life after which it decreases markedly with age as detectable damage to type II collagen occurs at the articular surface. The deep zone cartilage also exhibits a progressive decrease in tensile strength with increasing age although collagen content does not appear to decrease. These observations indicate that there are changes in mechanical and hence structural organization of cartilage with aging that if sufficiently developed can predispose cartilage to traumatic damage.

Once damage occurs joint repair can be addressed through a number of approaches. One approach includes the use of matrices tissue scaffolds or other carriers implanted with cells e.g. chondrocytes chondrocyte progenitors stromal cells mesenchymal stem cells etc. . These solutions have been described as a potential treatment for cartilage and meniscal repair or replacement. See also International Publications WO 99 51719 to Fofonoff published Oct. 14 1999 WO01 91672 to Simon et al. published Dec. 6 2001 and WO01 17463 to Mannsmann published Mar. 15 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 283 980 B1 to Vibe Hansen et al. issued Sep. 4 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 5 842 477 to Naughton issued Dec. 1 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 5 769 899 to Schwartz et al. issued Jun. 23 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 4 609 551 to Caplan et al. issued Sep. 2 1986 U.S. Pat. No. 5 041 138 to Vacanti et al. issued Aug. 29 1991 U.S. Pat. No. 5 197 985 to Caplan et al. issued Mar. 30 1993 U.S. Pat. No. 5 226 914 to Caplan et al. issued Jul. 13 1993 U.S. Pat. No. 6 328 765 to Hardwick et al. issued Dec. 11 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 281 195 to Rueger et al. issued Aug. 28 2001 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 846 835 to Grande issued Jul. 11 1989. However clinical outcomes with biologic replacement materials such as allograft and autograft systems and tissue scaffolds have been uncertain since most of these materials do not achieve a morphologic arrangement or structure similar to or identical to that of normal disease free human tissue it is intended to replace. Moreover the mechanical durability of these biologic replacement materials remains uncertain.

Usually severe damage or loss of cartilage is treated by replacement of the joint with a prosthetic material for example silicone e.g. for cosmetic repairs or metal alloys. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 383 228 to Schmotzer issued May 7 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 203 576 to Afriat et al. issued Mar. 20 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 126 690 to Ateshian et al. issued Oct. 3 2000. Implantation of these prosthetic devices is usually associated with loss of underlying tissue and bone without recovery of the full function allowed by the original cartilage and with some devices serious long term complications associated with the loss of significant amount of tissue and bone can include infection osteolysis and also loosening of the implant.

Further joint arthroplasties are highly invasive and require surgical resection of the entire articular surface of one or more bones or a majority thereof. With these procedures the marrow space is often reamed to fit the stem of the prosthesis. The reaming results in a loss of the patient s bone stock. U.S. Pat. No. 5 593 450 to Scott et al. issued Jan. 14 1997 discloses an oval domed shaped patella prosthesis. The prosthesis has a femoral component that includes two condyles as articulating surfaces. The two condyles meet to form a second trochlear groove and ride on a tibial component that articulates with respect to the femoral component. A patella component is provided to engage the trochlear groove. U.S. Pat. No. 6 090 144 to Letot et al. issued Jul. 18 2000 discloses a knee prosthesis that includes a tibial component and a meniscal component that is adapted to be engaged with the tibial component through an asymmetrical engagement.

A variety of materials can be used in replacing a joint with a prosthetic for example silicone e.g. for cosmetic repairs or suitable metal alloys are appropriate. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 443 991 B1 to Running issued Sep. 3 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 387 131 B1 to Miehlke et al. issued May 14 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 383 228 to Schmotzer issued May 7 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 344 059 B1 to Krakovits et al. issued Feb. 5 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 203 576 to Afriat et al. issued Mar. 20 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 126 690 to Ateshian et al. issued Oct. 3 2000 U.S. Pat. No. 6 013 103 to Kaufman et al. issued Jan. 11 2000. Implantation of these prosthetic devices is usually associated with loss of underlying tissue and bone without recovery of the full function allowed by the original cartilage and with some devices serious long term complications associated with the loss of significant amounts of tissue and bone can cause loosening of the implant. One such complication is osteolysis. Once the prosthesis becomes loosened from the joint regardless of the cause the prosthesis will then need to be replaced. Since the patient s bone stock is limited the number of possible replacement surgeries is also limited for joint arthroplasty.

As can be appreciated joint arthroplasties are highly invasive and require surgical resection of the entire or a majority of the articular surface of one or more bones involved in the repair. Typically with these procedures the marrow space is fairly extensively reamed in order to fit the stem of the prosthesis within the bone. Reaming results in a loss of the patient s bone stock and over time subsequent osteolysis will frequently lead to loosening of the prosthesis. Further the area where the implant and the bone mate degrades over time requiring the prosthesis to eventually be replaced. Since the patient s bone stock is limited the number of possible replacement surgeries is also limited for joint arthroplasty. In short over the course of 15 to 20 years and in some cases even shorter time periods the patient can run out of therapeutic options ultimately resulting in a painful non functional joint.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 206 927 to Fell et al. issued Mar. 27 2001 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 558 421 to Fell et al. issued May 6 2003 disclose a surgically implantable knee prosthesis that does not require bone resection. This prosthesis is described as substantially elliptical in shape with one or more straight edges. Accordingly these devices are not designed to substantially conform to the actual shape contour of the remaining cartilage in vivo and or the underlying bone. Thus integration of the implant can be extremely difficult due to differences in thickness and curvature between the patient s surrounding cartilage and or the underlying subchondral bone and the prosthesis. U.S. Pat. No. 6 554 866 to Aicher et al. issued Apr. 29 2003 describes a mono condylar knee joint prosthesis.

Interpositional knee devices that are not attached to both the tibia and femur have been described. For example Platt et al. 1969 Mould Arthroplasty of the Knee Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery 51B 1 76 87 describes a hemi arthroplasty with a convex undersurface that was not rigidly attached to the tibia. Devices that are attached to the bone have also been described. Two attachment designs are commonly used. The McKeever design is a cross bar member shaped like a t from a top perspective view that extends from the bone mating surface of the device such that the t portion penetrates the bone surface while the surrounding surface from which the t extends abuts the bone surface. See McKeever Tibial Plateau Prosthesis Chapter 7 p. 86. An alternative attachment design is the Macintosh design which replaces the t shaped fin for a series of multiple flat serrations or teeth. See Potter Arthroplasty of the Knee with Tibial Metallic Implants of the McKeever and Macintosh Design 49 4 903 915 1969 .

U.S. Pat. No. 4 502 161 to Wall issued Mar. 5 1985 describes a prosthetic meniscus constructed from materials such as silicone rubber or Teflon with reinforcing materials of stainless steel or nylon strands. U.S. Pat. No. 4 085 466 to Goodfellow et al. issued Mar. 25 1978 describes a meniscal component made from plastic materials. Reconstruction of meniscal lesions has also been attempted with carbon fiber polyurethane poly L lactide . Leeslag et al. Biological and Biomechanical Performance of Biomaterials Christel et al. eds. Elsevier Science Publishers B.V. Amsterdam. 1986. pp. 347 352. Reconstruction of meniscal lesions is also possible with bioresorbable materials and tissue scaffolds.

However currently available devices do not always provide ideal alignment with the articular surfaces and the resultant joint congruity. Poor alignment and poor joint congruity can for example lead to instability of the joint. Further none of these solutions take into account the fact that roughly 80 of patients undergoing knee surgery have a healthy lateral compartment and only need to repair the medial condyle and the patella. An additional 10 only have damage to the lateral condyle. Thus 90 of patients do not require the entire condylar surface repaired.

Thus there remains a need for compositions for joint repair including methods and compositions that facilitate the integration between the cartilage replacement system and the surrounding cartilage which takes into account the actual damage to be repaired. Further there is a need for an implant or implant system that improves the anatomic result of the joint correction procedure by providing surfaces that more closely resemble the natural knee joint anatomy of a patient. Additionally what is needed is an implant or implant system that provides an improved functional joint.

The present invention provides novel devices and methods for replacing a portion e.g. diseased area and or area slightly larger than the diseased area of a knee joint e.g. cartilage meniscus and or bone with one or more implants where the implant s achieves an anatomic or near anatomic fit with the surrounding structures and tissues. In cases where the devices and or methods include an element associated with the underlying articular bone the invention also provides that the bone associated element can achieve a near anatomic alignment with the subchondral bone. The invention also provides for the preparation of an implantation site with a single cut or a few relatively small cuts. Asymmetrical components can also be provided to improve the anatomic functionality of the repaired joint by providing a solution that closely resembles the natural knee joint anatomy. The improved anatomic results in turn leads to an improved functional result for the repaired joint. The invention also provides a kit which includes one or more implants used to achieve optimal joint correction.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Various modifications to the embodiments described will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. To the extent necessary to achieve a complete understanding of the invention disclosed the specification and drawings of all issued patents patent publications and patent applications cited in this application are incorporated herein by reference.

As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art methods recited herein may be carried out in any order of the recited events which is logically possible as well as the recited order of events. Furthermore where a range of values is provided it is understood that every intervening value between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. Also it is contemplated that any optional feature of the inventive variations described may be set forth and claimed independently or in combination with any one or more of the features described herein.

The practice of the present invention can employ unless otherwise indicated conventional and digital methods of x ray imaging and processing x ray tomosynthesis ultrasound including A scan B scan and C scan computed tomography CT scan magnetic resonance imaging MRI optical coherence tomography single photon emission tomography SPECT and positron emission tomography PET within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature and need not be described herein. See e.g. X Ray Structure Determination A Practical Guide 2nd Edition editors Stout and Jensen 1989 John Wiley Sons publisher Body CT A Practical Approach editor Slone 1999 McGraw Hill publisher X ray Diagnosis A Physician s Approach editor Lam 1998 Springer Verlag publisher and Dental Radiology Understanding the X Ray Image editor Laetitia Brocklebank 1997 Oxford University Press publisher. See also The Essential Physics of Medical Imaging 2Ed. Jerrold T. Bushberg et al.

The present invention provides methods and compositions for repairing joints particularly for repairing articular cartilage and for facilitating the integration of a wide variety of cartilage repair materials into a subject. Among other things the techniques described herein allow for the customization of cartilage repair material to suit a particular subject for example in terms of size cartilage thickness and or curvature. When the shape e.g. size thickness and or curvature of the articular cartilage surface is an exact or near anatomic fit with the non damaged cartilage or with the subject s original cartilage the success of repair is enhanced. The repair material can be shaped prior to implantation and such shaping can be based for example on electronic images that provide information regarding curvature or thickness of any normal cartilage surrounding the defect and or on curvature of the bone underlying the defect. Thus the current invention provides among other things for minimally invasive methods for partial joint replacement. The methods will require only minimal or in some instances no loss in bone stock. Additionally unlike with current techniques the methods described herein will help to restore the integrity of the articular surface by achieving an exact or near anatomic match between the implant and the surrounding or adjacent cartilage and or subchondral bone.

Advantages of the present invention can include but are not limited to i customization of joint repair thereby enhancing the efficacy and comfort level for the patient following the repair procedure ii eliminating the need for a surgeon to measure the defect to be repaired intraoperatively in some embodiments iii eliminating the need for a surgeon to shape the material during the implantation procedure iv providing methods of evaluating curvature of the repair material based on bone or tissue images or based on intraoperative probing techniques v providing methods of repairing joints with only minimal or in some instances no loss in bone stock vi improving postoperative joint congruity vii improving the postoperative patient recovery in some embodiments and viii improving postoperative function such as range of motion.

Thus the methods described herein allow for the design and use of joint repair material that more precisely fits the defect e.g. site of implantation or the articular surface s and accordingly provides improved repair of the joint.

The methods and compositions described herein can be used to treat defects resulting from disease of the cartilage e.g. osteoarthritis bone damage cartilage damage trauma and or degeneration due to overuse or age. The invention allows among other things a health practitioner to evaluate and treat such defects. The size volume and shape of the area of interest can include only the region of cartilage that has the defect but preferably will also include contiguous parts of the cartilage surrounding the cartilage defect.

As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art size curvature and or thickness measurements can be obtained using any suitable technique. For example one dimensional two dimensional and or three dimensional measurements can be obtained using suitable mechanical means laser devices electromagnetic or optical tracking systems molds materials applied to the articular surface that harden and memorize the surface contour and or one or more imaging techniques known in the art. Measurements can be obtained non invasively and or intraoperatively e.g. using a probe or other surgical device . As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the thickness of the repair device can vary at any given point depending upon patient s anatomy and or the depth of the damage to the cartilage and or bone to be corrected at any particular location on an articular surface.

As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the practitioner can proceed directly from the step of generating a model representation of the target joint to the step of selecting a suitable joint replacement implant as shown by the arrow . Additionally following selection of suitable joint replacement implant the steps of obtaining measurement of target joint generating model representation of target joint and generating projected model can be repeated in series or parallel as shown by the flow .

As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the practitioner can proceed directly from the step of generating a model representation of the target joint to the step of designing a suitable joint replacement implant as shown by the arrow . Similar to the flow shown above following the design of a suitable joint replacement implant the steps of obtaining measurement of target joint generating model representation of target joint and generating projected model can be repeated in series or parallel as shown by the flow .

Once the surfaces have been measured the user either selects the best fitting implant contained in a library of implants or generates a patient specific implant . These steps can be repeated as desired or necessary to achieve the best fitting implant for a patient . As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the process of selecting or designing an implant can be tested against the information contained in the MRI or x ray of the patient to ensure that the surfaces of the device achieves a good fit relative to the patient s joint surface. Testing can be accomplished by for example superimposing the implant image over the image for the patient s joint. Once it has been determined that a suitable implant has been selected or designed the implant site can be prepared for example by removing cartilage or bone from the joint surface or the implant can be placed into the joint .

The joint implant selected or designed achieves anatomic or near anatomic fit with the existing surface of the joint while presenting a mating surface for the opposing joint surface that replicates the natural joint anatomy. In this instance both the existing surface of the joint can be assessed as well as the desired resulting surface of the joint. This technique is particularly useful for implants that are not anchored into the bone.

As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the physician or other person practicing the invention can obtain a measurement of a target joint and then either design or select a suitable joint replacement implant.

A wide variety of materials find use in the practice of the present invention including but not limited to plastics metals crystal free metals ceramics biological materials e.g. collagen or other extracellular matrix materials hydroxyapatite cells e.g. stem cells chondrocyte cells or the like or combinations thereof. Based on the information e.g. measurements obtained regarding the defect and the articular surface and or the subchondral bone a repair material can be formed or selected. Further using one or more of these techniques described herein a cartilage replacement or regenerating material having a curvature that will fit into a particular cartilage defect will follow the contour and shape of the articular surface and will match the thickness of the surrounding cartilage. The repair material can include any combination of materials and typically includes at least one non pliable material for example materials that are not easily bent or changed.

Currently joint repair systems often employ metal and or polymeric materials including for example prostheses which are anchored into the underlying bone e.g. a femur in the case of a knee prosthesis . See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 203 576 to Afriat et al. issued Mar. 20 2001 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 322 588 to Ogle et al. issued Nov. 27 2001 and references cited therein. A wide variety of metals are useful in the practice of the present invention and can be selected based on any criteria. For example material selection can be based on resiliency to impart a desired degree of rigidity. Non limiting examples of suitable metals include silver gold platinum palladium iridium copper tin lead antimony bismuth zinc titanium cobalt stainless steel nickel iron alloys cobalt alloys such as Elgiloy a cobalt chromium nickel alloy and MP35N a nickel cobalt chromium molybdenum alloy and Nitinol a nickel titanium alloy aluminum manganese iron tantalum crystal free metals such as Liquidmetal alloys available from LiquidMetal Technologies www.liquidmetal.com other metals that can slowly form polyvalent metal ions for example to inhibit calcification of implanted substrates in contact with a patient s bodily fluids or tissues and combinations thereof.

Suitable synthetic polymers include without limitation polyamides e.g. nylon polyesters polystyrenes polyacrylates vinyl polymers e.g. polyethylene polytetrafluoroethylene polypropylene and polyvinyl chloride polycarbonates polyurethanes poly dimethyl siloxanes cellulose acetates polymethyl methacrylates polyether ether ketones ethylene vinyl acetates polysulfones nitrocelluloses similar copolymers and mixtures thereof. Bioresorbable synthetic polymers can also be used such as dextran hydroxyethyl starch derivatives of gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone polyvinyl alcohol poly N 2 hydroxypropyl methacrylamide poly hydroxy acids poly epsilon caprolactone polylactic acid polyglycolic acid poly dimethyl glycolic acid poly hydroxy butyrate and similar copolymers can also be used.

Other materials would also be appropriate for example the polyketone known as polyetheretherketone PEEK . This includes the material PEEK 450G which is an unfilled PEEK approved for medical implantation available from Victrex of Lancashire Great Britain. Victrex is located at www.matweb.com or see Boedeker www.boedeker.com . Other sources of this material include Gharda located in Panoli India www.ghardapolymers.com .

It should be noted that the material selected can also be filled. For example other grades of PEEK are also available and contemplated such as 30 glass filled or 30 carbon filled provided such materials are cleared for use in implantable devices by the FDA or other regulatory body. Glass filled PEEK reduces the expansion rate and increases the flexural modulus of PEEK relative to that portion which is unfilled. The resulting product is known to be ideal for improved strength stiffness or stability. Carbon filled PEEK is known to enhance the compressive strength and stiffness of PEEK and lower its expansion rate. Carbon filled PEEK offers wear resistance and load carrying capability.

As will be appreciated other suitable similarly biocompatible thermoplastic or thermoplastic polycondensate materials that resist fatigue have good memory are flexible and or deflectable have very low moisture absorption and good wear and or abrasion resistance can be used without departing from the scope of the invention. The implant can also be comprised of polyetherketoneketone PEKK .

Other materials that can be used include polyetherketone PEK polyetherketoneetherketoneketone PEKEKK and polyetheretherketoneketone PEEKK and generally a polyaryletheretherketone. Further other polyketones can be used as well as other thermoplastics.

Reference to appropriate polymers that can be used for the implant can be made to the following documents all of which are incorporated herein by reference. These documents include PCT Publication WO 02 02158 A1 dated Jan. 10 2002 and entitled Bio Compatible Polymeric Materials PCT Publication WO 02 00275 A1 dated Jan. 3 2002 and entitled Bio Compatible Polymeric Materials and PCT Publication WO 02 00270 A1 dated Jan. 3 2002 and entitled Bio Compatible Polymeric Materials.

The polymers can be prepared by any of a variety of approaches including conventional polymer processing methods. Preferred approaches include for example injection molding which is suitable for the production of polymer components with significant structural features and rapid prototyping approaches such as reaction injection molding and stereo lithography. The substrate can be textured or made porous by either physical abrasion or chemical alteration to facilitate incorporation of the metal coating. Other processes are also appropriate such as extrusion injection compression molding and or machining techniques. Typically the polymer is chosen for its physical and mechanical properties and is suitable for carrying and spreading the physical load between the joint surfaces.

More than one metal and or polymer can be used in combination with each other. For example one or more metal containing substrates can be coated with polymers in one or more regions or alternatively one or more polymer containing substrate can be coated in one or more regions with one or more metals.

The system or prosthesis can be porous or porous coated. The porous surface components can be made of various materials including metals ceramics and polymers. These surface components can in turn be secured by various means to a multitude of structural cores formed of various metals. Suitable porous coatings include but are not limited to metal ceramic polymeric e.g. biologically neutral elastomers such as silicone rubber polyethylene terephthalate and or combinations thereof or combinations thereof. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 3 605 123 to Hahn issued Sep. 20 1971. U.S. Pat. No. 3 808 606 to Tronzo issued May 7 1974 and U.S. Pat. No. 3 843 975 to Tronzo issued Oct. 29 1974 U.S. Pat. No. 3 314 420 to Smith issued Apr. 18 1967 U.S. Pat. No. 3 987 499 to Scharbach issued Oct. 26 1976 and German Offenlegungsschrift 2 306 552. There can be more than one coating layer and the layers can have the same or different porosities. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 3 938 198 to Kahn et al. issued Feb. 17 1976.

The coating can be applied by surrounding a core with powdered polymer and heating until cured to form a coating with an internal network of interconnected pores. The tortuosity of the pores e.g. a measure of length to diameter of the paths through the pores can be important in evaluating the probable success of such a coating in use on a prosthetic device. See also U.S. Pat. No. 4 213 816 to Morris issued Jul. 22 1980. The porous coating can be applied in the form of a powder and the article as a whole subjected to an elevated temperature that bonds the powder to the substrate. Selection of suitable polymers and or powder coatings can be determined in view of the teachings and references cited herein for example based on the melt index of each.

Repair materials can also include one or more biological material either alone or in combination with non biological materials. For example any base material can be designed or shaped and suitable cartilage replacement or regenerating material s such as fetal cartilage cells can be applied to be the base. The cells can be then be grown in conjunction with the base until the thickness and or curvature of the cartilage surrounding the cartilage defect has been reached. Conditions for growing cells e.g. chondrocytes on various substrates in culture ex vivo and in vivo are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 478 739 to Slivka et al. issued Dec. 26 1995 5 842 477 to Naughton et al. issued Dec. 1 1998 6 283 980 to Vibe Hansen et al. issued Sep. 4 2001 and 6 365 405 to Salzmann et al. issued Apr. 2 2002. Non limiting examples of suitable substrates include plastic tissue scaffold a bone replacement material e.g. a hydroxyapatite a bioresorbable material or any other material suitable for growing a cartilage replacement or regenerating material on it.

Biological polymers can be naturally occurring or produced in vitro by fermentation and the like. Suitable biological polymers include without limitation collagen elastin silk keratin gelatin polyamino acids cat gut sutures polysaccharides e.g. cellulose and starch and mixtures thereof. Biological polymers can be bioresorbable.

Biological materials used in the methods described herein can be autografts from the same subject allografts from another individual of the same species and or xenografts from another species . See also International Patent Publications WO 02 22014 to Alexander et al. published Mar. 21 2002 and WO 97 27885 to Lee published Aug. 7 1997. In certain embodiments autologous materials are preferred as they can carry a reduced risk of immunological complications to the host including re absorption of the materials inflammation and or scarring of the tissues surrounding the implant site.

In one embodiment of the invention a probe is used to harvest tissue from a donor site and to prepare a recipient site. The donor site can be located in a xenograft an allograft or an autograft. The probe is used to achieve a good anatomic match between the donor tissue sample and the recipient site. The probe is specifically designed to achieve a seamless or near seamless match between the donor tissue sample and the recipient site. The probe can for example be cylindrical. The distal end of the probe is typically sharp in order to facilitate tissue penetration. Additionally the distal end of the probe is typically hollow in order to accept the tissue. The probe can have an edge at a defined distance from its distal end e.g. at 1 cm distance from the distal end and the edge can be used to achieve a defined depth of tissue penetration for harvesting. The edge can be external or can be inside the hollow portion of the probe. For example an orthopedic surgeon can take the probe and advance it with physical pressure into the cartilage the subchondral bone and the underlying marrow in the case of a joint such as a knee joint. The surgeon can advance the probe until the external or internal edge reaches the cartilage surface. At that point the edge will prevent further tissue penetration thereby achieving a constant and reproducible tissue penetration. The distal end of the probe can include one or more blades saw like structures or tissue cutting mechanism. For example the distal end of the probe can include an iris like mechanism consisting of several small blades. The blade or blades can be moved using a manual motorized or electrical mechanism thereby cutting through the tissue and separating the tissue sample from the underlying tissue. Typically this will be repeated in the donor and the recipient. In the case of an iris shaped blade mechanism the individual blades can be moved so as to close the iris thereby separating the tissue sample from the donor site.

In another embodiment of the invention a laser device or a radiofrequency device can be integrated inside the distal end of the probe. The laser device or the radiofrequency device can be used to cut through the tissue and to separate the tissue sample from the underlying tissue.

In one embodiment of the invention the same probe can be used in the donor and in the recipient. In another embodiment similarly shaped probes of slightly different physical dimensions can be used. For example the probe used in the recipient can be slightly smaller than that used in the donor thereby achieving a tight fit between the tissue sample or tissue transplant and the recipient site. The probe used in the recipient can also be slightly shorter than that used in the donor thereby correcting for any tissue lost during the separation or cutting of the tissue sample from the underlying tissue in the donor material.

Any biological repair material can be sterilized to inactivate biological contaminants such as bacteria viruses yeasts molds mycoplasmas and parasites. Sterilization can be performed using any suitable technique for example radiation such as gamma radiation.

Any of the biological materials described herein can be harvested with use of a robotic device. The robotic device can use information from an electronic image for tissue harvesting.

In certain embodiments the cartilage replacement material has a particular biochemical composition. For instance the biochemical composition of the cartilage surrounding a defect can be assessed by taking tissue samples and chemical analysis or by imaging techniques. For example WO 02 22014 to Alexander describes the use of gadolinium for imaging of articular cartilage to monitor glycosaminoglycan content within the cartilage. The cartilage replacement or regenerating material can then be made or cultured in a manner to achieve a biochemical composition similar to that of the cartilage surrounding the implantation site. The culture conditions used to achieve the desired biochemical compositions can include for example varying concentrations. Biochemical composition of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material can for example be influenced by controlling concentrations and exposure times of certain nutrients and growth factors.

Using information on thickness and curvature of the cartilage a physical model of the surfaces of the articular cartilage and of the underlying bone can be created. This physical model can be representative of a limited area within the joint or it can encompass the entire joint. This model can also take into consideration the presence or absence of a meniscus as well as the presence or absence of some or all of the cartilage. For example in the knee joint the physical model can encompass only the medial or lateral femoral condyle both femoral condyles and the notch region the medial tibial plateau the lateral tibial plateau the entire tibial plateau the medial patella the lateral patella the entire patella or the entire joint. The location of a diseased area of cartilage can be determined for example using a 3D coordinate system or a 3D Euclidian distance as described in WO 02 22014.

In this way the size of the defect to be repaired can be determined. This process takes into account that for example roughly 80 of patients have a healthy lateral component. As will be apparent some but not all defects will include less than the entire cartilage. Thus in one embodiment of the invention the thickness of the normal or only mildly diseased cartilage surrounding one or more cartilage defects is measured. This thickness measurement can be obtained at a single point or preferably at multiple points for example 2 point 4 6 points 7 10 points more than 10 points or over the length of the entire remaining cartilage. Furthermore once the size of the defect is determined an appropriate therapy e.g. articular repair system can be selected such that as much as possible of the healthy surrounding tissue is preserved.

In other embodiments the curvature of the articular surface can be measured to design and or shape the repair material. Further both the thickness of the remaining cartilage and the curvature of the articular surface can be measured to design and or shape the repair material. Alternatively the curvature of the subchondral bone can be measured and the resultant measurement s can be used to either select or shape a cartilage replacement material. For example the contour of the subchondral bone can be used to re create a virtual cartilage surface the margins of an area of diseased cartilage can be identified. The subchondral bone shape in the diseased areas can be measured. A virtual contour can then be created by copying the subchondral bone surface into the cartilage surface whereby the copy of the subchondral bone surface connects the margins of the area of diseased cartilage. In shaping the device the contours can be configured to mate with existing cartilage or to account for the removal of some or all of the cartilage.

The implant has an upper surface a lower surface and a peripheral edge . The upper surface is formed so that it forms a mating surface for receiving the opposing joint surface in this instance partially concave to receive the femur. The concave surface can be variably concave such that it presents a surface to the opposing joint surface e.g. a negative surface of the mating surface of the femur it communicates with. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the negative impression need not be a perfect one.

The upper surface of the implant can be shaped by any of a variety of means. For example the upper surface can be shaped by projecting the surface from the existing cartilage and or bone surfaces on the tibial plateau or it can be shaped to mirror the femoral condyle in order to optimize the complimentary surface of the implant when it engages the femoral condyle. Alternatively the superior surface can be configured to mate with an inferior surface of an implant configured for the opposing femoral condyle.

The lower surface has a convex surface that matches or nearly matches the tibial plateau of the joint such that it creates an anatomic or near anatomic fit with the tibial plateau. Depending on the shape of the tibial plateau the lower surface can be partially convex as well. Thus the lower surface presents a surface to the tibial plateau that fits within the existing surface. It can be formed to match the existing surface or to match the surface after articular resurfacing.

As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the convex surface of the lower surface need not be perfectly convex. Rather the lower surface is more likely consist of convex and concave portions that fit within the existing surface of the tibial plateau or the re surfaced plateau. Thus the surface is essentially variably convex and concave.

Turning now to cross sections of the implant shown in are depicted along the lines of C C D D and E E. The implant has a thickness t t and t respectively. As illustrated by the cross sections the thickness of the implant varies along both its length L and width W. The actual thickness at a particular location of the implant is a function of the thickness of the cartilage and or bone to be replaced and the joint mating surface to be replicated. Further the profile of the implant at any location along its length L or width W is a function of the cartilage and or bone to be replaced.

Additionally as shown in the joint anchor can have a cross member so that from a bottom perspective the joint anchor has the appearance of a cross or an x. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the joint anchor could take on a variety of other forms while still accomplishing the same objective of providing increased stability of the implant in the joint. These forms include but are not limited to pins bulbs balls teeth etc. Additionally one or more joint anchors can be provided as desired. and N illustrate cross sections of alternate embodiments of a dual component implant from a side view and a front view.

In an alternate embodiment shown in it may be desirable to provide a one or more cross members on the lower surface in order to provide a bit of translation movement of the implant relative to the surface of the femur or femur implant. In that event the cross member can be formed integral to the surface of the implant or can be one or more separate pieces that fit within a groove on the lower surface of the implant . The groove can form a single channel as shown in FIG. N or can have more than one channel as shown in FIG. N. In either event the cross bar then fits within the channel as shown in FIGS. N N. The cross bar members can form a solid or hollow tube or pipe structure as shown in . Where two or more tubes communicate to provide translation a groove can be provided along the surface of one or both cross members to interlock the tubes into a cross bar member further stabilizing the motion of the cross bar relative to the implant . As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the cross bar member can be formed integrally with the implant without departing from the scope of the invention.

As shown in it is anticipated that the surface of the tibial plateau will be prepared by forming channels thereon to receive the cross bar members. Thus facilitating the ability of the implant to seat securely within the joint while still providing movement about an axis when the knee joint is in motion.

FIG. S illustrate an alternate embodiment of implant . As illustrated in the edges are beveled to relax a sharp corner. FIG. S illustrates an implant having a single fillet or bevel . The fillet is placed on the implant anterior to the posterior portion of the tibial spine. As shown in FIG. S two fillets are provided and used for the posterior chamfer. In FIG. S a third fillet is provided to create two cut surfaces for the posterior chamfer.

Turning now to FIG. S a tangent of the implant is deselected leaving three posterior curves. FIG. S shows the result of tangent propagation. FIG. S illustrates the effect on the design when the bottom curve is selected without tangent propagation. The result of tangent propagation and selection is shown in FIG. S . As can be seen in FIG. S the resulting corner has a softer edge but sacrifices less than 0.5 mm of joint space. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art additional cutting planes can be added without departing from the scope of the invention.

Turning now to an implant suitable for providing an opposing joint surface to the implant of is shown. This implant corrects a defect on an inferior surface of the femur e.g. the condyle of the femur that mates with the tibial plateau and can be used alone i.e. on the femur or in combination with another joint repair device. Formation of the surfaces of the devices can be achieved using the techniques described above with respect to the implant of .

The anchors could take on a variety of other forms without departing from the scope of the invention while still accomplishing the same objective of providing increased stability of the implant in the joint. These forms include but are not limited to pins bulbs balls teeth etc. Additionally one or more joint anchors can be provided as desired. As illustrated in three pins are used to anchor the implant . However more or fewer joint anchors cruciate stems or pins can be used without departing from the scope of the invention.

Turning now to a view of the tibial plateau mating surface of the implant is illustrated. As is apparent from this view the surface is curved such that it is convex or substantially convex in order to mate with the concave surface of the plateau. illustrates the upper surface of the implant further illustrating the use of three pegs for anchoring the implant to the bone. As illustrated the three pegs are positioned to form a triangle. However as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art one or more pegs can be used and the orientation of the pegs to one another can be as shown or any other suitable orientation that enables the desired anchoring. illustrated a cross section of the implant taken along the lines F F shown in . Typically the pegs are oriented on the surface of the implant so that the peg is perpendicular to the femoral condyle which may not result in the peg being perpendicular to the surface of the implant.

As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the implant can be manufactured from a material that has memory such that the implant can be configured to snap fit over the condyle. Alternatively it can be shaped such that it conforms to the surface without the need of a snap fit.

Similar to the implant of the implant can optionally oppose one or more implants or opposing joint surfaces such as those shown in and can be combined with other implants such as the implants of . is a perspective side view of the implant of . As shown in the superior surface of the implant is curved to correspond to the curvature of the femoral condyle that it mates with and the portion of the patellar surface of the femur that it covers. One or more pegs can be provided to assist in anchoring the implant to the bone. Additionally an angled surface can be provided on an interior surface of the condyle component that conforms to an optionally provided cut made on the surface of the joint surface with which the implant mates.

Using the implant described in this application the three point loading will occur from set up 1 2900 N . To replicate a worst case loading scenario a 75 25 load distribution 75 of 2900 N 2175 N will be used. The loading will be concentrated on a 6 mm diameter circular area located directly below and normal to the ped on the bearing surface.

Turning to the cantilever loading shown in the loading will occur from set up 3 or 90 at a 75 25 load distribution 75 of 3625 N 2719 N . As with the above example the loading will be concentrated on a 6 mm diameter circular area located at the center of the posterior most portion of the medial condyle normal to the flat cut surface of the posterior condyle.

Turning now to and N the implant is positioned such that it communicates with an implant designed to correct a defect in the tibial plateau such as those shown in .

In another embodiment of the invention the implant can have a superior surface which substantially conforms to the surface of the condyle but which has at one flat portion corresponding to an oblique cut on the bone as shown in .

Turning now to an implant is shown from a side view with a 7 difference between the anterior and posterior cuts.

By dividing the surfaces of the medial and lateral compartments into independent articulating surfaces as shown in the implant provides improved fit of the conformal surfaces to the subchondral bone. Additionally the lateral anterior portion of the femur is shielded from stress which could cause bone loss. Also the smaller size of each component of the implant enables the implant to be placed within the joint using a smaller incision. Finally the wear of the patellar component is improved.

Turning now to the implant is shown superimposed on the unaltered patella in order to illustrate that the position of the dome of the implant corresponds to the location of the patellar ridge.

The arthroplasty system can be designed to reflect aspects of the tibial shape femoral shape and or patellar shape. Tibial shape and femoral shape can include cartilage bone or both. Moreover the shape of the implant can also include portions or all components of other articular structures such as the menisci. The menisci are compressible in particular during gait or loading. For this reason the implant can be designed to incorporate aspects of the meniscal shape accounting for compression of the menisci during loading or physical activities. For example the undersurface of the implant can be designed to match the shape of the tibial plateau including cartilage or bone or both. The superior surface of the implant can be a composite of the articular surface of the tibia in particular in areas that are not covered by menisci and the meniscus. Thus the outer aspects of the device can be a reflection of meniscal height. Accounting for compression this can be for example 20 40 60 or 80 of uncompressed meniscal height.

Similarly the superior surface of the implant can be designed to match the shape of the femoral condyle including cartilage or bone or both. The inferior surface of the implant can be a composite of the surface of the tibial plateau in particular in areas that are not covered by menisci and the meniscus. Thus at least a portion of the outer aspects of the device can be a reflection of meniscal height. Accounting for compression this can be for example 20 40 60 or 80 of uncompressed meniscal height. These same properties can be applied to the implants shown in as well.

In some embodiments the outer aspect of the device reflecting the meniscal shape can be made of another preferably compressible material. If a compressible material is selected it is preferably designed to substantially match the compressibility and biomechanical behavior of the meniscus. The entire device can be made of such a material or non metallic materials in general.

The height and shape of the menisci for any joint surface to be repaired can be measured directly on an imaging test. If portions or all of the meniscus are torn the meniscal height and shape can be derived from measurements of a contralateral joint or using measurements of other articular structures that can provide an estimate on meniscal dimensions.

In another embodiment the superior face of the implants or can be shaped according to the femur. The shape can preferably be derived from the movement patterns of the femur relative to the tibial plateau thereby accounting for variations in femoral shape and tibiofemoral contact area as the femoral condyle flexes extends rotates translates and glides on the tibia and menisci.

The movement patterns can be measured using any current or future test know in the art such as fluoroscopy MRI gait analysis and combinations thereof.

The arthroplasty can have two or more components one essentially mating with the tibial surface and the other substantially articulating with the femoral component. The two components can have a flat opposing surface. Alternatively the opposing surface can be curved. The curvature can be a reflection of the tibial shape the femoral shape including during joint motion and the meniscal shape and combinations thereof.

Examples of single component systems include but are not limited to a plastic a polymer a metal a metal alloy crystal free metals a biologic material or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the surface of the repair system facing the underlying bone can be smooth. In other embodiments the surface of the repair system facing the underlying bone can be porous or porous coated. In another aspect the surface of the repair system facing the underlying bone is designed with one or more grooves for example to facilitate the in growth of the surrounding tissue. The external surface of the device can have a step like design which can be advantageous for altering biomechanical stresses. Optionally flanges can also be added at one or more positions on the device e.g. to prevent the repair system from rotating to control toggle and or prevent settling into the marrow cavity . The flanges can be part of a conical or a cylindrical design. A portion or all of the repair system facing the underlying bone can also be flat which can help to control depth of the implant and to prevent toggle.

Non limiting examples of multiple component systems include combinations of metal plastic metal alloys crystal free metals and one or more biological materials. One or more components of the articular surface repair system can be composed of a biologic material e.g. a tissue scaffold with cells such as cartilage cells or stem cells alone or seeded within a substrate such as a bioresorable material or a tissue scaffold allograft autograft or combinations thereof and or a non biological material e.g. polyethylene or a chromium alloy such as chromium cobalt .

Thus the repair system can include one or more areas of a single material or a combination of materials for example the articular surface repair system can have a first and a second component. The first component is typically designed to have size thickness and curvature similar to that of the cartilage tissue lost while the second component is typically designed to have a curvature similar to the subchondral bone. In addition the first component can have biomechanical properties similar to articular cartilage including but not limited to similar elasticity and resistance to axial loading or shear forces. The first and the second component can consist of two different metals or metal alloys. One or more components of the system e.g. the second portion can be composed of a biologic material including but not limited to bone or a non biologic material including but not limited to hydroxyapatite tantalum a chromium alloy chromium cobalt or other metal alloys.

One or more regions of the articular surface repair system e.g. the outer margin of the first portion and or the second portion can be bioresorbable for example to allow the interface between the articular surface repair system and the patient s normal cartilage over time to be filled in with hyaline or fibrocartilage. Similarly one or more regions e.g. the outer margin of the first portion of the articular surface repair system and or the second portion can be porous. The degree of porosity can change throughout the porous region linearly or non linearly for where the degree of porosity will typically decrease towards the center of the articular surface repair system. The pores can be designed for in growth of cartilage cells cartilage matrix and connective tissue thereby achieving a smooth interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding cartilage.

The repair system e.g. the second component in multiple component systems can be attached to the patient s bone with use of a cement like material such as methylmethacrylate injectable hydroxy or calcium apatite materials and the like.

In certain embodiments one or more portions of the articular surface repair system can be pliable or liquid or deformable at the time of implantation and can harden later. Hardening can occur for example within 1 second to 2 hours or any time period therebetween preferably with in 1 second to 30 minutes or any time period therebetween more preferably between 1 second and 10 minutes or any time period therebetween .

One or more components of the articular surface repair system can be adapted to receive injections. For example the external surface of the articular surface repair system can have one or more openings therein. The openings can be sized to receive screws tubing needles or other devices which can be inserted and advanced to the desired depth for example through the articular surface repair system into the marrow space. Injectables such as methylmethacrylate and injectable hydroxy or calcium apatite materials can then be introduced through the opening or tubing inserted therethrough into the marrow space thereby bonding the articular surface repair system with the marrow space. Similarly screws or pins or other anchoring mechanisms. can be inserted into the openings and advanced to the underlying subchondral bone and the bone marrow or epiphysis to achieve fixation of the articular surface repair system to the bone. Portions or all components of the screw or pin can be bioresorbable for example the distal portion of a screw that protrudes into the marrow space can be bioresorbable. During the initial period after the surgery the screw can provide the primary fixation of the articular surface repair system. Subsequently ingrowth of bone into a porous coated area along the undersurface of the articular cartilage repair system can take over as the primary stabilizer of the articular surface repair system against the bone.

The articular surface repair system can be anchored to the patient s bone with use of a pin or screw or other attachment mechanism. The attachment mechanism can be bioresorbable. The screw or pin or attachment mechanism can be inserted and advanced towards the articular surface repair system from a non cartilage covered portion of the bone or from a non weight bearing surface of the joint.

The interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding normal cartilage can be at an angle for example oriented at an angle of 90 degrees relative to the underlying subchondral bone. Suitable angles can be determined in view of the teachings herein and in certain cases non 90 degree angles can have advantages with regard to load distribution along the interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding normal cartilage.

The interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding normal cartilage and or bone can be covered with a pharmaceutical or bioactive agent for example a material that stimulates the biological integration of the repair system into the normal cartilage and or bone. The surface area of the interface can be irregular for example to increase exposure of the interface to pharmaceutical or bioactive agents.

As described herein repair systems of various sizes curvatures and thicknesses can be obtained. These repair systems can be catalogued and stored to create a library of systems from which an appropriate system for an individual patient can then be selected. In other words a defect or an articular surface is assessed in a particular subject and a pre existing repair system having a suitable shape and size is selected from the library for further manipulation e.g. shaping and implantation.

As noted above the methods and compositions described herein can be used to replace only a portion of the articular surface for example an area of diseased cartilage or lost cartilage on the articular surface. In these systems the articular surface repair system can be designed to replace only the area of diseased or lost cartilage or it can extend beyond the area of diseased or lost cartilage e.g. 3 or 5 mm into normal adjacent cartilage. In certain embodiments the prosthesis replaces less than about 70 to 80 or any value therebetween of the articular surface e.g. any given articular surface such as a single femoral condyle etc. preferably less than about 50 to 70 or any value therebetween more preferably less than about 30 to 50 or any value therebetween more preferably less than about 20 to 30 or any value therebetween even more preferably less than about 20 of the articular surface.

The prosthesis can include multiple components for example a component that is implanted into the bone e.g. a metallic device attached to a component that is shaped to cover the defect of the cartilage overlaying the bone. Additional components for example intermediate plates meniscal repair systems and the like can also be included. It is contemplated that each component replaces less than all of the corresponding articular surface. However each component need not replace the same portion of the articular surface. In other words the prosthesis can have a bone implanted component that replaces less than 30 of the bone and a cartilage component that replaces 60 of the cartilage. The prosthesis can include any combination provided each component replaces less than the entire articular surface.

The articular surface repair system can be formed or selected so that it will achieve a near anatomic fit or match with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage or bone. Typically the articular surface repair system is formed and or selected so that its outer margin located at the external surface will be aligned with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage.

Thus the articular repair system can be designed to replace the weight bearing portion or more or less than the weight bearing portion of an articular surface for example in a femoral condyle. The weight bearing surface refers to the contact area between two opposing articular surfaces during activities of normal daily living e.g. normal gait . At least one or more weight bearing portions can be replaced in this manner e.g. on a femoral condyle and on a tibia.

In other embodiments an area of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss can be identified in a weight bearing area and only a portion of the weight bearing area specifically the portion containing the diseased cartilage or area of cartilage loss can be replaced with an articular surface repair system.

In another embodiment the articular repair system can be designed or selected to replace substantially all of the articular surface e.g. a condyle.

In another embodiment for example in patients with diffuse cartilage loss the articular repair system can be designed to replace an area slightly larger than the weight bearing surface.

In certain aspects the defect to be repaired is located only on one articular surface typically the most diseased surface. For example in a patient with severe cartilage loss in the medial femoral condyle but less severe disease in the tibia the articular surface repair system can only be applied to the medial femoral condyle. Preferably in any methods described herein the articular surface repair system is designed to achieve an exact or a near anatomic fit with the adjacent normal cartilage.

In other embodiments more than one articular surface can be repaired. The area s of repair will be typically limited to areas of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss or areas slightly greater than the area of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss within the weight bearing surface s .

In another embodiment one or more components of the articular surface repair e.g. the surface of the system that is pointing towards the underlying bone or bone marrow can be porous or porous coated. A variety of different porous metal coatings have been proposed for enhancing fixation of a metallic prosthesis by bone tissue in growth. Thus for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 855 638 to Pilliar issued Dec. 24 1974 discloses a surgical prosthetic device which can be used as a bone prosthesis comprising a composite structure consisting of a solid metallic material substrate and a porous coating of the same solid metallic material adhered to and extending over at least a portion of the surface of the substrate. The porous coating consists of a plurality of small discrete particles of metallic material bonded together at their points of contact with each other to define a plurality of connected interstitial pores in the coating. The size and spacing of the particles which can be distributed in a plurality of monolayers can be such that the average interstitial pore size is not more than about 200 microns. Additionally the pore size distribution can be substantially uniform from the substrate coating interface to the surface of the coating. In another embodiment the articular surface repair system can contain one or more polymeric materials that can be loaded with and release therapeutic agents including drugs or other pharmacological treatments that can be used for drug delivery. The polymeric materials can for example be placed inside areas of porous coating. The polymeric materials can be used to release therapeutic drugs e.g. bone or cartilage growth stimulating drugs. This embodiment can be combined with other embodiments wherein portions of the articular surface repair system can be bioresorbable. For example the first layer of an articular surface repair system or portions of its first layer can be bioresorbable. As the first layer gets increasingly resorbed local release of a cartilage growth stimulating drug can facilitate in growth of cartilage cells and matrix formation.

In any of the methods or compositions described herein the articular surface repair system can be pre manufactured with a range of sizes curvatures and thicknesses. Alternatively the articular surface repair system can be custom made for an individual patient.

In certain instances shaping of the repair material will be required before or after formation e.g. growth to desired thickness for example where the thickness of the required cartilage material is not uniform e.g. where different sections of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material require different thicknesses .

The replacement material can be shaped by any suitable technique including but not limited to casting techniques mechanical abrasion laser abrasion or ablation radiofrequency treatment cryoablation variations in exposure time and concentration of nutrients enzymes or growth factors and any other means suitable for influencing or changing cartilage thickness. See e.g. WO 00 15153 to Mansmann published Mar. 23 2000 If enzymatic digestion is used certain sections of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material can be exposed to higher doses of the enzyme or can be exposed longer as a means of achieving different thicknesses and curvatures of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material in different sections of said material.

The material can be shaped manually and or automatically for example using a device into which a pre selected thickness and or curvature has been input and then programming the device using the input information to achieve the desired shape.

In addition to or instead of shaping the cartilage repair material the site of implantation e.g. bone surface any cartilage material remaining etc. can also be shaped by any suitable technique in order to enhance integration of the repair material.

The articular repair system can be formed or selected so that it will achieve a near anatomic fit or match with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage subchondral bone menisci and or other tissue. The shape of the repair system can be based on the analysis of an electronic image e.g. MRI CT digital tomosynthesis optical coherence tomography or the like . If the articular repair system is intended to replace an area of diseased cartilage or lost cartilage the near anatomic fit can be achieved using a method that provides a virtual reconstruction of the shape of healthy cartilage in an electronic image.

In one embodiment of the invention a near normal cartilage surface at the position of the cartilage defect can be reconstructed by interpolating the healthy cartilage surface across the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage. This can for example be achieved by describing the healthy cartilage by means of a parametric surface e.g. a B spline surface for which the control points are placed such that the parametric surface follows the contour of the healthy cartilage and bridges the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage. The continuity properties of the parametric surface will provide a smooth integration of the part that bridges the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage with the contour of the surrounding healthy cartilage. The part of the parametric surface over the area of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage can be used to determine the shape or part of the shape of the articular repair system to match with the surrounding cartilage.

In another embodiment a near normal cartilage surface at the position of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage can be reconstructed using morphological image processing. In a first step the cartilage can be extracted from the electronic image using manual semi automated and or automated segmentation techniques e.g. manual tracing region growing live wire model based segmentation resulting in a binary image. Defects in the cartilage appear as indentations that can be filled with a morphological closing operation performed in 2 D or 3 D with an appropriately selected structuring element. The closing operation is typically defined as a dilation followed by an erosion. A dilation operator sets the current pixel in the output image to 1 if at least one pixel of the structuring element lies inside a region in the source image. An erosion operator sets the current pixel in the output image to 1 if the whole structuring element lies inside a region in the source image. The filling of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage creates a new surface over the area of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage that can be used to determine the shape or part of the shape of the articular repair system to match with the surrounding cartilage or subchondral bone.

As described above the articular repair system can be formed or selected from a library or database of systems of various sizes curvatures and thicknesses so that it will achieve a near anatomic fit or match with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage and or subchondral bone. These systems can be pre made or made to order for an individual patient. In order to control the fit or match of the articular repair system with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage or subchondral bone or menisci and other tissues preoperatively a software program can be used that projects the articular repair system over the anatomic position where it will be implanted. Suitable software is commercially available and or readily modified or designed by a skilled programmer.

In yet another embodiment the articular surface repair system can be projected over the implantation site using one or more 3 D images. The cartilage and or subchondral bone and other anatomic structures are extracted from a 3 D electronic image such as an MRI or a CT using manual semi automated and or automated segmentation techniques. A 3 D representation of the cartilage and or subchondral bone and other anatomic structures as well as the articular repair system is generated for example using a polygon or NURBS surface or other parametric surface representation. For a description of various parametric surface representations see for example Foley J. D. et al. Computer Graphics Principles and Practice in C Addison Wesley 2edition 1995 .

The 3 D representations of the cartilage and or subchondral bone and other anatomic structures and the articular repair system can be merged into a common coordinate system. The articular repair system can then be placed at the desired implantation site. The representations of the cartilage subchondral bone menisci and other anatomic structures and the articular repair system are rendered into a 3 D image for example application programming interfaces APIs OpenGL standard library of advanced 3 D graphics functions developed by SGI Inc. available as part of the drivers for PC based video cards for example from www.nvidia.com for NVIDIA video cards or www.3dlabs.com for 3Dlabs products or as part of the system software for Unix workstations or DirectX multimedia API for Microsoft Windows based PC systems available from www.microsoft.com . The 3 D image can be rendered showing the cartilage subchondral bone menisci or other anatomic objects and the articular repair system from varying angles e.g. by rotating or moving them interactively or non interactively in real time or non real time.

The software can be designed so that the articular repair system including surgical tools and instruments with the best fit relative to the cartilage and or subchondral bone is automatically selected for example using some of the techniques described above. Alternatively the operator can select an articular repair system including surgical tools and instruments and project it or drag it onto the implantation site using suitable tools and techniques. The operator can move and rotate the articular repair systems in three dimensions relative to the implantation site and can perform a visual inspection of the fit between the articular repair system and the implantation site. The visual inspection can be computer assisted. The procedure can be repeated until a satisfactory fit has been achieved. The procedure can be performed manually by the operator or it can be computer assisted in whole or part. For example the software can select a first trial implant that the operator can test. The operator can evaluate the fit. The software can be designed and used to highlight areas of poor alignment between the implant and the surrounding cartilage or subchondral bone or menisci or other tissues. Based on this information the software or the operator can then select another implant and test its alignment. One of skill in the art will readily be able to select modify and or create suitable computer programs for the purposes described herein.

In another embodiment the implantation site can be visualized using one or more cross sectional 2 D images. Typically a series of 2 D cross sectional images will be used. The 2 D images can be generated with imaging tests such as CT MRI digital tomosynthesis ultrasound or optical coherence tomography using methods and tools known to those of skill in the art. The articular repair system can then be superimposed onto one or more of these 2 D images. The 2 D cross sectional images can be reconstructed in other planes e.g. from sagittal to coronal etc. Isotropic data sets e.g. data sets where the slice thickness is the same or nearly the same as the in plane resolution or near isotropic data sets can also be used. Multiple planes can be displayed simultaneously for example using a split screen display. The operator can also scroll through the 2 D images in any desired orientation in real time or near real time the operator can rotate the imaged tissue volume while doing this. The articular repair system can be displayed in cross section utilizing different display planes e.g. sagittal coronal or axial typically matching those of the 2 D images demonstrating the cartilage subchondral bone menisci or other tissue. Alternatively a three dimensional display can be used for the articular repair system. The 2 D electronic image and the 2 D or 3 D representation of the articular repair system can be merged into a common coordinate system. The articular repair system can then be placed at the desired implantation site. The series of 2 D cross sections of the anatomic structures the implantation site and the articular repair system can be displayed interactively e.g. the operator can scroll through a series of slices or non interactively e.g. as an animation that moves through the series of slices in real time or non real time.

Rapid protyping is a technique for fabricating a three dimensional object from a computer model of the object. A special printer is used to fabricate the prototype from a plurality of two dimensional layers. Computer software sections the representations of the object into a plurality of distinct two dimensional layers and then a three dimensional printer fabricates a layer of material for each layer sectioned by the software. Together the various fabricated layers form the desired prototype. More information about rapid prototyping techniques is available in US Patent Publication No 2002 0079601A1 to Russell et al. published Jun. 27 2002. An advantage to using rapid prototyping is that it enables the use of free form fabrication techniques that use toxic or potent compounds safely. These compounds can be safely incorporated in an excipient envelope which reduces worker exposure

A powder piston and build bed are provided. Powder includes any material metal plastic etc. that can be made into a powder or bonded with a liquid. The power is rolled from a feeder source with a spreader onto a surface of a bed. The thickness of the layer is controlled by the computer. The print head then deposits a binder fluid onto the powder layer at a location where it is desired that the powder bind. Powder is again rolled into the build bed and the process is repeated with the binding fluid deposition being controlled at each layer to correspond to the three dimensional location of the device formation. For a further discussion of this process see for example US Patent Publication No 2003 017365A1 to Monkhouse et al. published Sep. 18 2003.

The rapid prototyping can use the two dimensional images obtained as described above in Section I to determine each of the two dimensional shapes for each of the layers of the prototyping machine. In this scenario each two dimensional image slice would correspond to a two dimensional prototype slide. Alternatively the three dimensional shape of the defect can be determined as described above and then broken down into two dimensional slices for the rapid prototyping process. The advantage of using the three dimensional model is that the two dimensional slices used for the rapid prototyping machine can be along the same plane as the two dimensional images taken or along a different plane altogether.

Rapid prototyping can be combined or used in conjunction with casting techniques. For example a shell or container with inner dimensions corresponding to an articular repair system can be made using rapid prototyping. Plastic or wax like materials are typically used for this purpose. The inside of the container can subsequently be coated for example with a ceramic for subsequent casting. Using this process personalized casts can be generated.

Rapid prototyping can be used for producing articular repair systems. Rapid prototyping can be performed at a manufacturing facility. Alternatively it may be performed in the operating room after an intraoperative measurement has been performed.

Prior to performing surgery on a patient the surgeon can preoperatively make a determination of the alignment of the knee using for example an erect AP x ray. In performing preoperative assessment any lateral and patella spurs that are present can be identified.

Using standard surgical techniques the patient is anesthetized and an incision is made in order to provide access to the portion or portions of the knee joint to be repaired. A medial portal can be used initially to enable arthroscopy of the joint. Thereafter the medial portal can be incorporated into the operative incision and or standard lateral portals can be used.

Once an appropriate incision has been made the exposed compartment is inspected for integrity including the integrity of the ligament structures. If necessary portions of the meniscus can be removed as well as any spurs or osteophytes that were identified in the AP x ray or that may be present within the joint. In order to facilitate removal of osteophytes the surgeon may flex the knee to gain exposure to additional medial and medial posterior osteophytes. Additionally osteophytes can be removed from the patella during this process. If necessary the medial and or lateral meniscus can also be removed at this point if desired along with the rim of the meniscus.

As would be appreciated by those of skill in the art evaluation of the medial cruciate ligament may be required to facilitate tibial osteophyte removal.

To insert the device of into the medial compartment perform a mini incision arthrotomy medial to the patella tendon. Once the incision is made expose the medial condyle and prepare a medial sleeve to about 1 cm below the joint line using a suitable knife and curved osteotome. After preparing the medial sleeve place a Z retractor around the medial tibial plateau and remove anterior portions of the meniscus and the osteophytes along the tibia and femur. At this point the knee should be flexed to about 60 or more. Remove the Z retractor and place the implant against the most distal aspect of the femur and over the tibial plateau edge. Push the implant straight back. In some instances application of valgus stress may ease insertion of the implant.

To insert the device of into the lateral compartment perform a mini incision arthrotomy lateral to the patella tendon. Once the incision is made expose the lateral condyle and prepare a lateral sleeve to about 1 cm below the joint line using a suitable knife and curved osteotome. After preparing the lateral sleeve place a Z retractor around the lateral tibial plateau and remove anterior portions of the meniscus and the osteophytes along the tibia and femur. Remove the Z retractor and place the implant against the distal aspect of the femur and over the tibial plateau edge. Hold the implant at a 45 angle and rotate the implant against the lateral condyle using a lateral to medial push toward the lateral spine. In some instances application of varus stress may ease insertion of the implant.

Once any implant shown in is implanted the device should be positioned within 0 to 2 mm of the AP boundaries of the tibial plateau and superimposed over the boundary. Verification of the range of motion should then be performed to confirm that there is minimal translation of the implant. Once positioning is confirmed closure of the wound is performed using techniques known in the art.

As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art additional treatment of the surface of the tibial plateau may be desirable depending on the configuration of the implant . For example one or more channels or grooves may be formed on the surface of the tibial plateau to accommodate anchoring mechanisms such as the keel shown in or the translational movement cross members shown in .

To insert the device shown in depending on the condyle to be repaired either an antero medial or antero lateral skin incisions is made which begins approximately 1 cm proximal to the superior border of the patella. The incision typically can range from for example 6 10 cm along the edge of the patella. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art a longer incision may be required under some circumstances.

It may be required to excise excess deep synovium to improve access to the joint. Additionally all or part of the fat pad may also be excused and to enable inspection of the opposite joint compartment.

Typically osteophytes are removed from the entire medial and or lateral edge of the femur and the tibia as well as any osteophytes on the edge of the patella that might be significant.

Although it is possible typically the devices do not require resection of the distal femur prior to implanting the device. However if desired bone cuts can be performed to provide a surface for the implant.

At this juncture the patient s leg is placed in 90 flexion position. I guide can then be placed on the condyle which covers the distal femoral cartilage. The guide enables the surgeon to determine placement of apertures that enable the implant to be accurately placed on the condyle. With the guide in place holes are drilled into the condyle to create apertures from 1 3 mm in depth. Once the apertures have been created the guide is removed and the implant is installed on the surface of the condyle. Cement can be used to facilitate adherence of the implant to the condyle.

Where more than one condyle is to be repaired e.g. using two implants of or the implant of or where a condyle and a portion of the patellar surface is to be repaired e.g. using the implant of the surgical technique described herein would be modified to for example provide a greater incision for accessing the joint provide additional apertures for receiving the pegs of the implant etc.

To insert the device shown in it may be appropriate to use the incisions made laterally or medially to the patella tendon and described above with respect to . First the patella is everted laterally and the fat pad and synovium are bent back from around the periphery of the patella. If desired osteophytes can be removed. Prior to resurfacing the natural patella the knee should be manually taken through several range of motion maneuvers to determine whether subluxation is present. If subluxation is present then it may be necessary to medialize the implant . The natural patella can then be cut in a planar or flat manner such that a flat surface is presented to the implant. The geometric center of the patella is then typically aligned with the geometric center of the implant . In order to anchor the implant to the patella one or more holes or apertures can be created in the patellar surface to accept the pegs of the implant .

One or more of the implants described above can be combined together in a kit such that the surgeon can select one or more implants to be used during surgery.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention and the various embodiments and with various modifications that are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims equivalents thereof.

