---

title: Process and system for an integrated carrier ethernet exchange
abstract: An Ethernet exchanger is coupled to two or more Ethernet networks to exchange information among the two or more Ethernet networks using virtual circuits. A first Ethernet network is associated with a first carrier and a first port of the Ethernet exchanger. A second Ethernet network is associated with a second carrier and a second port of the Ethernet exchanger. Network information of the first Ethernet network and network information of the second Ethernet network are provided by the respective first carrier and the second carrier and stored in a database. A virtual circuit is provisioned to interconnect the first Ethernet network and the second Ethernet network based on a partnership between the first carrier and the second carrier and based on the stored information about the first network and the second network. The virtual circuit is associated with the first port and the second port. The stored information about the first network or the second network is reusable for subsequent provisioning of other virtual circuits associated with the first carrier or the second carrier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08509249&OS=08509249&RS=08509249
owner: Equinix, Inc.
number: 08509249
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100902
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to all three 1 U.S. Provisional Application titled ETHERNET EXCHANGE filed on Dec. 10 2009 having application Ser. No. 61 285 371 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety 2 U.S. Provisional Application titled PRIVATE NETWORK CONNECTIVITY PLATFORM filed on Sep. 4 2009 having application Ser. No. 61 239 997 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and 3 U.S. Provisional Application titled ETHERNET EXCHANGE filed on Apr. 12 2010 having application Ser. No. 61 323 066 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the software engine and its modules as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office Patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to network connectivity in a many to many connection environment. More particularly an aspect of an embodiment of the invention relates to interconnecting Ethernet networks from multiple private carriers.

One of the challenges that many network carriers face is how to make their services available to their customers at competitive costs. The customers may be located anywhere and it can be cost prohibitive for each carrier to install their own end to end wiring to service these customers. Many carriers already have existing high speed networks e.g. fiber in many metropolitan areas. As such it is possible for one carrier to connect to an existing network of another carrier. This type of connection is referred to as Direct Network to Network Interconnection D NNI . Typically the D NNI approach is very complex and time consuming. It takes a lot of time for the two carriers to negotiate an agreement and for their engineering teams to come up with a solution. The process is repeated whenever a connection with another carrier is required making it very inefficient and costly.

For some embodiments an Ethernet exchanger is configured to provision virtual circuits that connect Ethernet networks from a plurality of carriers based on one to many or many to many topologies. Each of the plurality carriers is associated with one or more ports of the Ethernet exchanger. Detailed information about each carrier is collected via a web based user interface and stored in a relational and searchable database for repeated uses. The web based user interface may be used to allow a carrier to offer its services to other carriers. The web based user interface may also be used to allow a carrier to request for services. Based on two or more carriers having an agreement to sell and buy services the web based user interface may be used to request the Ethernet exchanger to provision a virtual circuit. Once the virtual circuit is provisioned the Ethernet exchanger is configured to translate frames between the Ethernet networks of the two carriers and to monitor and trouble shoot issues about the virtual circuit.

While the invention is subject to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. The invention should be understood to not be limited to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.

According to some embodiments a platform is provided to enable a plurality of carriers to interconnect their Ethernet networks. The platform includes an Ethernet exchanger. Each carrier is coupled to the Ethernet exchanger via a connection point. The Ethernet exchanger is configured to map and translate frames or packets among the carriers across their respective connection points. Mapping and translating operations are based on information provided by the carriers using a web based user interface associated with the Ethernet exchanger.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific data signals named components connections amount of private carriers connected to the switch fabric etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods have not been described in detail but rather in a block diagram in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Further specific numeric references such as first private carrier may be made. However the specific numeric reference should not be interpreted as a literal sequential order but rather interpreted that the first private carrier is different than a second private carrier. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. The specific details may be varied from and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The term coupled is defined as meaning connected either directly to the component or indirectly to the component through another component.

An Ethernet exchanger is a system that is designed to address growing demand for Ethernet services by enabling carriers to interconnect and to expand their services globally. The Ethernet exchanger may be part of an overall physical Ethernet switch fabric which may include one or more Ethernet exchangers to support single connections as well as redundant connections.

The Ethernet exchanger is configured to be used by the carriers as a common point for External network to network interconnection E NNI . One implementation of the E NNI may be an Equinix Carrier Ethernet Exchange provided by Equinix Inc. headquartered in Foster City Calif. The Ethernet exchanger streamlines and simplifies the process of partnering the carriers in a transparent and neutral manner. One example application of an Ethernet exchanger is a co location and interconnecting data center where many carriers already have their presence. This allows the participating carriers to have a wide range of interconnectivity options in the same facility. The Ethernet exchanger includes ports for two or more carriers to connect their network wirings. This enables a carrier to have options to create many to many interconnections with only one time hook up to the switch fabric one time creation of a customer account with the switch fabric and one time providing description of its network characteristics using an on line web interface associated with the switch fabric. The customer account may include the user profile information. The Ethernet exchanger enables the usage of already entered or known information thus simplifying the interconnecting process by avoiding the needs to repeatedly requiring the carriers to enter their information for every connection.

By being connected to the Ethernet exchanger a carrier can purchases services and reach out to many end users in many different geographical areas without incurring the same expenses typically associated with having multiple D NNIs. For example the carrier A can expand its services using the carrier D s Ethernet network. By connecting to the Ethernet exchanger a carrier may be able to generate additional revenue by offering to sell its network services to the other carriers. For example the carrier D can offer the opportunity to use the carrier D s network to the other carriers.

The Ethernet exchanger may be configured to include a configuration module a provisioning module and a monitoring module . These modules may be implemented using software scripted routines hardware logic and any combination of both. The provisioning module may provision virtual circuits based on receiving virtual circuit requests. The configuration module may map and translate Ethernet services among the carriers.

The Ethernet exchanger may offer application programming interfaces APIs to exchange information with other applications such as for example the web based user interface used by the participating carriers. In the following discussions the phrases participating carriers qualified carriers or carriers refer to the carriers who have agreements with a provider of the Ethernet exchange services such as for example Equinix Inc.

The Ethernet exchanger may also be configured to include a monitor module which may be implemented using software scripted routines hardware logic and any combination of both. The monitor module may monitor the status of the virtual circuits and provide status information to the carriers. As mentioned above the communication with the carriers may be via the web based user interface. Some examples of network management software used by the monitoring module may include operation support systems OSS and simple network management protocol SNMP . OSS and SNMP are network management protocols used to manage communications networks. The monitor module may be configured to use APIs to exchange information with network management software used by the carriers.

The Ethernet exchanger may support multiple E NNIs. Each of the E NNIs is coupled to a port. For example each of the ports and is coupled to each of the E NNI E NNI E NNI and E NNI respectively. In the example illustrated in the Ethernet services of carrier A and carrier C are mapped and translated across virtual circuit . This allows Ethernet traffic to flow between network and network . Likewise the Ethernet services of carrier B and carrier C are mapped and translated across virtual circuit . This allows Ethernet frames to be exchanged between network and network .

The Ethernet exchanger is configured to support point to point connections as well as multipoint connections. In a point to point connection the Ethernet exchanger establishes a virtual circuit that connects networks from two carriers. In a multipoint connection the Ethernet exchanger establishes virtual circuits that connect networks from many carriers. For example the virtual circuit is part of a point to point connection. The virtual circuits and are parts of multipoint connections. The Ethernet exchanger may map and translate Ethernet services between and among the many Ethernet networks connected by the virtual circuits.

For some example embodiments the web based user interface may be configured to present a questionnaire in the form of templates to solicit information from the carriers. The templates are web based and may be presented as a web page or part of a web page. The templates solicit carrier information and direct that solicited information into fields of the database. The web based user interface cooperates with the physical switch fabric of the Ethernet exchanger to provide the carriers a standardized interconnecting process. The web based user interface is referred to herein as a web portal or online web portal because it may be a website that offers many services to the carriers including for example buy sell order emails register etc. However the terms may be used interchangeably.

The carriers may use computer systems to access the web portal to communicate with one another and to interact with the underlying Ethernet switch fabric such as for example switch fabric illustrated in . For example the carriers A D may use client computer systems respectively to connect to the web portal via the Internet . The web portal may include a register option to allow a carrier to register and become a participant. For example a carrier or carrier representative user etc. may use button to register and to provide information about its networks and services. The carrier may need to provide the information via a series of one or more templates.

Information provided with the templates may be used for service mapping and provisioning as well as any specific extensible markup language XML API translations for web services consumption. XML APIs are APIs that are coded using XML. The web portal includes codes that are scripted to automate interaction with the underlying switch fabric service mapping and or any logical translation based on XML API and web interface. Each template may be presented by the web portal as a web page or a pop up window. The information solicited from the carriers may include information about their networks such as for example 

For some embodiments the lit building information may be entered directly using the web portal . Alternatively the lit building information may be submitted and processed as a batch operation. This batch processing may make it easier for those carriers that have many lit buildings or those carriers that have lit building information stored in formats that are not easily extracted. For some embodiments the batch processing is performed using an API associated with the web portal .

Many of the fields in the template may correspond to fields of a searchable relational database such as for example database . The templates may be standardized so that they can be used for all carriers. This is advantageous because there is no need to have different set of questions for different carriers as is typically used in the D NNIs. In addition a carrier may only need to provide the information about its network once regardless of how many other networks that the carrier may be interconnected with. Information associated with a carrier may be grouped together as a carrier profile. Each carrier profile may be unique. In addition to storing the carrier profiles the database may also be configured to store other information that may be used by the web portal .

The Ethernet exchanger is configured as a transparent aggregation translator between the private Ethernet networks of the carriers. The web portal may be configured to present the templates to a user or representative of the carrier on a client machine to allow the user to create a user profile for its carrier and associated Ethernet network. The user profile may include services offered by the carrier. The configuration module of the Ethernet exchanger may be configured to extract and store this information in the database. The information from all of the users is aggregated to provide complete and relevant information in response to a search query generated by other users using the online web portal . The database may be associated with intelligent routines to discover the queried information and present the aggregated information to the user that is relevant to the query of the user. The information may include a list of a carrier s Ethernet buildings by capacity price service level etc. The information may also include lit building list. The templates enable the collection the extraction and the storing of the information into the relational database. The database is configured to store aggregate and makes the aggregated information searchable and publishable.

The web portal provides a medium that allows a carrier to interact showcase and sell its services to other carriers. It allows a carrier to specify information or services that it wants to offer to other carriers and to learn about other carriers services. This enables the carriers to qualify each other as partners and to form relationships with one another. For example a carrier may use the button to describe services that it is willing to offer to potential partners. Similarly a carrier may use button to specify services that it is searching for.

For some embodiments the information about the services being searched for may be presented in the form of a request for quote RFQ . For example the carrier A may use the web portal to search view and identify services offered by the carrier D. A representative of the carrier A may use the button to generate an RFQ and cause the RFQ to be sent to the carrier D. When a representative of the carrier D is signed on to the web portal an RFQ notification is displayed. For some embodiments the account information or the profile information stored in the relational database may be used to populate fields of the RFQ.

Negotiations between the carrier A and the carrier D may then take place. For some embodiments the carriers may negotiate among themselves and then use the web portal to enter the details of their agreements. When there is an agreement between the carrier A and the carrier D the carrier A may use the button to request the underlying switch fabric and Ethernet exchanger to provision the services.

For some embodiments each carrier may use the web portal to configure and assign representatives to different roles see for examples of roles . One representative may be assigned an administrator role and serve as an administrator. The administrator may then assign other representatives from the carrier to other roles such as for example sales engineering product support technical support etc. illustrated as representatives and . Each role may be associated with a different level of access and or a different level of capabilities. For example only a sale representative may review the agreements of that carrier and only a technical support representative may be able to access the network management information.

The Ethernet exchanger is configured to perform interconnection service that aggregates and translates private Ethernet services from the many participating carriers. It provides a many to many Layer 2 Network to Network Interface NNI and standardizes the network to network connection process. The Ethernet exchanger is configured to distribute and support multi regional Ethernet connections among many private networks from a central Ethernet switching fabric. Carrier information from all of the Ethernet networks connected to the Ethernet exchanger is aggregated and stored in the database.

For some embodiments the configuration module as illustrated in is configured to act as an agent to convert protocols bandwidth requirements etc. between the various participating carriers. The Ethernet exchanger is also configured to use APIs to work with a multitude of proprietary systems APIs. The configuration module may include logic and or software routines to do the handshaking mapping and conversion between the different Ethernet protocols independent of the type of Ethernet protocol or network configuration parameters used in either Ethernet network. Following are some examples of the operations that may be performed by the configuration module 

For some embodiments the Ethernet exchanger keeps the value of the PDU intact throughout the translation process. When the frame is received the TPID portion of the frame is stripped and a Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS label is added. This is illustrated as frame . The positions of the MPLS data and the PDU in the frame are then switched as illustrated in frame . The Ethernet exchanger then forward the frame by making switching decisions based on the MPLS label . The frame is then transmitted across a virtual circuit to a destination port where the Ethernet exchanger replaces the MPLS label with the TPID associated with the destination port. As illustrated with frame the TPID value has been translated to 0x88a8 and the VLAN ID has been translated to 200. The TPID value of 0x88a8 is configured by a carrier associated with a second network. The translated frame is then transmitted from the Ethernet exchanger to the second network as frame .

It may be noted that the frame portion of the frame is similar to the frame portion of the frame . However the frame portion of the frame is translated into the frame portion of the frame . This reflects the translation of the QoS between the two networks. For some example embodiments each carrier is required to enter QoS information about their networks using the web portal. When two carriers enter into an agreement each of the carriers may need to use the web portal to indicate to the Ethernet exchanger which of the QoS to use.

At the web portal level the carriers may be able to access the monitor option and the trouble shooting option to interact with the Ethernet OAM module and the ticketing module . The carriers may also be able to receive monitoring and troubleshooting reports . The monitor option may be used by members of the carrier s network operation center NOC to submit tickets test status view link statistics etc. For some embodiments APIs may be available to allow the carriers applications to view monitoring and troubleshooting information and to perform other related network management operations.

For some embodiments a carrier may be able to perform network testing that encompass its network as well as the virtual circuits that the carrier is associated with. For some embodiments the Ethernet exchanger may prevent a carrier s test from reaching beyond the virtual circuit and into another carrier s network. However when an authorization is provided the Ethernet exchanger is configured to provide monitoring troubleshooting and ticketing information as related to both the virtual circuit provisioned between the first Ethernet network and the second Ethernet network as well as the first Ethernet network and the second Ethernet network themselves.

For some embodiments the Ethernet exchanger is configured to allow testing to identify issues are relating to loss of connectivity performance etc. The loss of connectivity issues may be identified when there is no communication from one end of a virtual circuit to another end of the virtual circuit. The issue may be caused by configuration errors or it may be caused by physical failures. Ping test of the virtual circuit end points or intermediate points may be performed isolate the cause of the issue. The performance issues may be related to loss of frames slow or delay delivery of frames delay variance or jitter or service throughput. Other issues may be related to queuing drops of frames etc.

The marketplace allows the discovery and sale of network services among the carriers within the secure collocation facility. This enables the carriers to n to seamlessly extend their global reach and depth. The market for the many to many E NNIs is driven by the needs of carriers to extend their Ethernet services beyond the physical footprint or capabilities of their asset or infrastructure. The marketplace is designed to bring carriers together and interconnect their networks regardless of the platforms e.g. Ethernet MPLS SASS etc . Using the marketplace the carriers can search and review services offered by other carriers selectively identify services that meet their requirements and negotiate purchases with the desired carriers. illustrates an overall example diagram of a representation of a marketplace that includes a web portal and an External Network to Network Interface E NNI in accordance with some example embodiments. The example illustrates the integration of the web portal and its functionalities the ENNI infrastructure and its functionalities the roles of the representatives of the carriers and type of data generated based on the interactions between the representatives of the carriers and the portal infrastructure as well as the ENNI infrastructure along with other relevant information.

At block the services that the carriers want to showcase to other carriers may become accessible in a marketplace. The marketplace may also provide mechanism to enable the carriers who have network requirements to post them. As mentioned above for some embodiments this posting of the requirements may be in the form of an RFQ and the RFQ may be sent to the appropriate carriers who offer network services that match with the requirements. The marketplace also provides each carrier to have a storefront so that their network services can be displayed searched viewed and ordered by other carriers.

Based on the carriers becoming partners they may generate requests to have the connections established as shown in block . At block the Ethernet exchanger provisions the virtual circuits to connect the networks of the requesting carriers. At block the virtual circuits are monitored for potential issues and appropriate status information is provided to the carriers.

At block another virtual circuit request is received to establish a virtual circuit between the first carrier and a third carrier. At block information about the first carrier and the third carrier is retrieved from the database. It is noted that there is no need for the first carrier to provide the same information again for this request. The same information stored in the database for the first carrier is reused. The information about the third carrier was also provided when it became a participant. At block a second virtual circuit is provisioned.

At block a request to establish a virtual circuit between the first and the second carriers is received. At block the provisioning and configuration of the virtual circuit is performed based on the information stored for the first and the second carriers and based on any additional information provided with the request.

A set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

In the current example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. liquid crystals display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device . Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In example embodiments a computer system e.g. a standalone client or server computer system configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein below. In other embodiments the module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a module mechanically in the dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present description. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

As noted the software may be transmitted over a network using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for transmission to and execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signal or other intangible medium to facilitate transmission and communication of such software.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions above are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. These algorithms may be written in a number of different software programming languages such as C C or other similar languages. Also an algorithm may be implemented with lines of code in software configured logic gates in software or a combination of both. In an embodiment the logic consists of electronic circuits that follow the rules of Boolean Logic software that contain patterns of instructions or any combination of both.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussions it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived there from such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

Thus what has been described is a neutral platform and marketplace for carriers and service providers. The platform enables the carriers to extend their network footprint cost effectively and to speed time to market by partnering and interconnecting with other carriers. The marketplace provides the carriers access to wholesale and retail channels. Using a web portal of the marketplace the carriers can monetize assets by marketing their services and forming partnerships with other carriers. It may be appreciated that are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

