---

title: Furazanobenzimidazoles as prodrugs to treat neoplastic or autoimmune diseases
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08802858&OS=08802858&RS=08802858
owner: Basilea Pharmaceutica AG
number: 08802858
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20100726
---
This application is a National Stage Application of PCT EP2010 060803 filed Jul. 26 2010 which claims priority from European Patent Application 09166469.8 filed on Jul. 27 2009. The priority of both said PCT and European Patent Application is claimed.

The invention relates to prodrugs of substituted furazanobenzimidazoles processes for the preparation thereof and pharmaceutical compositions containing the same the use thereof optionally in combination with one or more other pharmaceutically active compounds for the therapy of neoplastic diseases and autoimmune diseases.

Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in humans. Although a variety of drugs against neoplastic diseases have been developed and techniques are available such as surgery and radiation therapy there is still a need for alternative and improved methods of treatment of neoplastic diseases.

Autoimmune diseases are associated with abnormal lymphoproliferation as a result of defects in the termination of lymphocyte activation and growth. Often such diseases are associated with inflammation like rheumatoid arthritis insulin dependent diabetes mellitus multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus and the like. The treatment of such diseases is focused on anti inflammatory and immunosuppressive drugs which in numerous cases show severe side effects. Hence there is a need for alternative drugs with a new mode of action showing less side effects.

Apoptosis is a term used to describe a series of cellular events which occur to bring about programmed cell death. There are various apoptotic pathways some of which have been characterized whereas others remain to be elucidated. If the balance between cell division and apoptosis is disturbed life threatening diseases including cancer autoimmune disorders neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases may occur.

In recent years it has become evident that programmed cell death apoptosis is as important to the health of a multicellular organism as cell division. By repeated cell division and differentiation throughout development or tissue repair surplus or even harmful cells are generated. In order to maintain tissue homeostasis these cells have to be removed or killed. The delicate interplay between cell growth and apoptosis in an organism is mirrored in the complex molecular balance that determines whether an individual cell undergoes division arrests in the cell cycle or commits to programmed cell death.

Dysregulation of cell proliferation or lack of appropriate cell death has wide ranging clinical implications. A number of diseases associated with such dysregulation involve hyperproliferation inflammation tissue remodeling and repair. Familiar indications in this category include cancers restenosis neointimal hyperplasia angiogenesis endometriosis lymphoproliferative disorders transplantation related pathologies graft rejection polyposis loss of neural function in the case of tissue remodeling and the like. Such cells may lose the normal regulatory control of cell division and may also fail to undergo appropriate cell death.

As apoptosis is inhibited or delayed in most types of proliferative neoplastic diseases induction of apoptosis is an option for treatment of cancer especially in cancer types which show resistance to classic chemotherapy radiation and immunotherapy Apoptosis and Cancer Chemotherapy Hickman and Dive eds. Blackwell Publishing 1999 . Also in autoimmune and transplantation related diseases and pathologies compounds inducing apoptosis may be used to restore normal cell death processes and therefore can eradicate the symptoms and might cure the diseases. Further applications of compounds inducing apoptosis may be in restenosis i.e. accumulation of vascular smooth muscle cells in the walls of arteries and in persistent infections caused by a failure to eradicate bacteria and virus infected cells. Furthermore apoptosis can be induced or re established in epithelial cells in endothelial cells in muscle cells and in others which have lost contact with extracellular matrix. These cells are potentially able to colonize other organs and therefore can develop into pathologies like neoplasias endometriosis and the like.

The reference furthermore discloses that these compounds can be administered in the form of prodrugs which are broken down in the human or animal body to give the corresponding compound of formula I and mentions that among other types of prodrugs amides of naturally occurring amino acids e.g. amides formed from the acid function of the amino acid and suitable amino groups of the compound of formula I are suitable as prodrugs.

The aqueous solubility of furazanobenzimidazoles like those exemplified in WO2004 103994 is generally low. This is a problem for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions especially compositions for parenteral administration. The reference suggests only very general to use an aqueous solution of a water soluble salt of the compounds of formula I for parenteral administration.

It has now been found that selected amides derived from furazanobenzimidazoles of the afore mentioned formula I wherein R represents an aryl or heteroaryl group substituted by at least one amino group and a natural amino acid selected from glycine Gly alanine Ala and lysine Lys display significantly improved aqueous solubility and are cleaved in vivo to the parent aromatic or heteroaromatic amine thereby acting as prodrugs. The increased aqueous solubility simplifies the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions and reduces the need for solubility enhancing excipients compared to the parent drug. This is of special advantage since these excipients can cause unwanted toxic effects Excipient Toxicity and Safety Weiner Myra L. Kotkoskie Lois A. Editors. 2000 Publisher Dekker New York USA. Pharmacological effects of formulation vehicles implications for cancer chemotherapy ten Tije Albert J. Verweij Jaap Loos Walter J. Sparreboom Alex Clinical Pharmacokinetics 2003 42 7 665 685 .

Specifically for the lysine Lys derived prodrug a very strongly increased solubility is observed over an especially broad pH range and even at only slightly acidic conditions. These specific solubility properties of the lysine derivative also at higher pH values provide a particularly excellent flexibility in the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable compositions. It was furthermore found in pharmacokinetic studies in mice that the amide prodrugs derived from glycine Gly alanine Ala and lysine Lys provide significantly higher exposure of the animals to the parent drug expressed as AUC area under the curve value than those derived from other natural amino acids. For example AUC values are more than 50 percent higher than the AUC values found after administration of amide prodrugs derived from other very similar natural amino acids like asparagine Asn serine Ser glutamine Gln or arginine Arg .

Additionally it was found that the specific Lys derived prodrug of Example 1 of this application is better tolerated provides longer exposure of tumors to the drug and has a higher efficacy in animal tumor models at the maximum tolerated dose than the corresponding parent drug. These surprising effects suggest also a higher efficacy of this prodrug in the therapy of neoplastic diseases and autoimmune diseases.

In a full blood in vitro assay an amino acid amide derived from the amino group at the furazane ring is converted less efficiently into the parent drug than the corresponding derivative with the amino acid amide being a substituent of the residue R in the afore mentioned formula I . This shows that not all amides derived from an amino group of the compound of formula I and a natural amino acid are equally well suited as prodrugs.

Various other types of amine prodrugs are described in the literature e.g. A. L. Simplicio J. M. Clancy J. F. Gilmer Molecules 2008 13 519 546 Prodrugs Challenges and Rewards in Biotechnol. Phalli . Aspects 2007 5 Pt. 2 V. J. Stella R. T. Borchardt M. J. Hageman R. Oliyai H. Maag J. W. Tilley Editors USA. 2007 pages 102 131 Publisher Springer New York N.Y. J. Rautio H. Kumpulainen T. Heimbach R. Oliyai D. Oh T. Jarvinen J. Savolainen Nature Rev. Drug Discovery 2008 7 255 270 . However not every potential prodrug is sufficiently converted into the parent drug in every case which is exemplified with an amidine and a sulfamate derivative of the furazanobenzimidazoles which do not give quantifiable plasma levels of the parent drug after administration in animal studies. This underscores further the challenge to identify for a given drug suitable prodrugs combining all required properties.

The furazanobenzimidazoles of formula II are prodrugs with improved aqueous solubility and are cleaved in vivo to provide the corresponding parent drug of formula I II 

The furazanobenzimidazoles of formula II have accordingly the same medicinal uses of the corresponding parent drugs which are described in detail in WO2004 103994. In particular the compounds of formula II selectively induce apoptosis in cancer cells and can be used for the treatment of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases. The invention accordingly also relates to compounds of formula II for use as medicaments. The invention furthermore relates to methods for the synthesis of such compounds to pharmaceutical compositions containing compounds of formula II to the use of compounds of formula II for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases and to methods of treatment of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases using such compounds of formula II or of pharmaceutical compositions containing the same.

For the purposes of the present application the prefix lower denotes a radical having from 1 up to and including a maximum of 7 especially from 1 up to and including a maximum of 4 carbon atoms the radicals in question being either linear or branched with single or multiple branching.

Where the plural form is used for compounds salts and the like this is taken to mean also a single compound salt or the like.

Double bonds in principle can have E or Z configuration. The compounds of this invention may therefore exist as isomeric mixtures or single isomers. If not specified both isomeric forms are intended.

Any asymmetric carbon atom not indicated in formula II to have a specific configuration may be present in the R S or R S configuration preferably in the R or S configuration. The compounds may thus be present as mixtures of isomers or as pure isomers preferably as enantiomer pure stereoisomers.

Lower alkyl has preferably 1 to 4 carbon atoms and is butyl such as n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl propyl such as n propyl or isopropyl ethyl or methyl. Preferably lower alkyl is methyl or ethyl.

Cycloalkyl has preferably 3 to 7 ring atoms and may be unsubstituted or substituted e.g. by lower alkyl or lower alkoxy. Cycloalkyl is for example cyclohexyl cyclopentyl or methylcyclopentyl.

Aryl stands for a mono or bicyclic fused ring aromatic group with 5 to 10 carbon atoms such as phenyl 1 naphthyl or 2 naphthyl or also a partially saturated bicyclic fused ring comprising a phenyl group such as indanyl dihydro or tetrahydronaphthyl.

Heteroaryl represents an aromatic group containing at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and is mono or bicyclic. Monocyclic heteroaryl includes 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl groups containing 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from nitrogen sulfur and oxygen. Bicyclic heteroaryl includes 9 or 10 membered fused ring heteroaryl groups. Examples of heteroaryl include pyrrolyl thienyl furyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl triazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl benzo fused derivatives of such monocyclic heteroaryl groups such as indolyl benzimidazolyl or benzofuryl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl quinazolinyl or purinyl.

Heterocyclyl designates preferably a saturated partially saturated or unsaturated mono or bicyclic ring containing 4 10 atoms comprising one two or three heteroatoms selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur which may unless otherwise specified be carbon or nitrogen linked wherein a ring nitrogen atom may optionally be substituted by a group selected from lower alkyl amino lower alkyl aryl aryl lower alkyl and acyl and a ring carbon atom may be substituted by lower alkyl amino lower alkyl aryl aryl lower alkyl heteroaryl lower alkoxy hydroxy or oxo. Examples of heterocyclyl are pyrrolidinyl oxazolidinyl thiazolidinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl piperazinyl dioxolanyl and tetrahydropyranyl.

Acyl designates for example lower alkylcarbonyl cyclohexylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl aryl lower alkylcarbonyl or heteroarylcarbonyl. Acyl is preferably lower alkylcarbonyl in particular propionyl or acetyl.

Halo lower alkyl is preferably fluoro lower alkyl especially trifluoromethyl 3 3 3 trifluoroethyl or pentafluoroethyl.

Salts are especially the pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Such salts are formed for example as acid addition salts preferably with organic or inorganic acids from compounds of formula II with a basic nitrogen atom. Suitable inorganic acids are for example halogen acids such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid or phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids are for example carboxylic phosphoric sulfonic or sulfamic acids for example acetic acid propionic acid octanoic acid decanoic acid dodecanoic acid glycolic acid lactic acid fumaric acid succinic acid adipic acid pimelic acid suberic acid azelaic acid malic acid tartaric acid citric acid amino acids such as glutamic acid or aspartic acid maleic acid hydroxymaleic acid methylmaleic acid cyclohexanecarboxylic acid adamantanecarboxylic acid benzoic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid phthalic acid phenylacetic acid mandelic acid cinnamic acid methane or ethane sulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid ethane 1 2 disulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid 2 naphthalenesulfonic acid 1 5 naphthalene disulfonic acid 2 3 or 4 methyl benzenesulfonic acid methylsulfuric acid ethylsulfuric acid dodecylsulfuric acid N cyclohexylsulfamic acid N methyl N ethyl or N propyl sulfamic acid or other organic protonic acids such as ascorbic acid.

For isolation or purification purposes it is also possible to use pharmaceutically unacceptable salts for example picrates or perchlorates. For therapeutic use only pharmaceutically acceptable salts or free compounds are employed where applicable in the form of pharmaceutical preparations and these are therefore preferred.

In view of the close relationship between the novel compounds in free form and those in the form of their salts including those salts that can be used as intermediates for example in the purification or identification of the novel compounds any reference to the free compounds hereinbefore and hereinafter is to be understood as referring also to the corresponding salts as appropriate and expedient.

The compounds of formula II can be used in the same way as the corresponding parent drugs. Therefore the invention also relates to compounds of formula II as defined hereinbefore for use as medicaments in particular for the treatment of a neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or a degenerative disease in particular for the treatment of a solid neoplastic disease.

The compounds of formula II according to the invention show therapeutic efficacy especially against neoplastic diseases and autoimmune diseases. In particular the compounds of the invention are active against malignancies e.g. epithelial neoplasms squamous cell neoplasms basal cell neoplasms transitional cell papillomas and carcinomas adenomas and adenocarcinomas adnexal and skin appendage neoplasms mucoepidermoid neoplasms cystic neoplasms mucinous and serous neoplasms ductal lobular and medullary neoplasms acinar cell neoplasms complex epithelial neoplasms specialized gonadal neoplasms paragangliomas and glomus tumors naevi and melanomas soft tissue tumors and sarcomas fibromatous neoplasms myxomatous neoplasms lipomatous neoplasms myomatous neoplasms complex mixed and stromal neoplasms fibroepithelial neoplasms synovial like neoplasms mesothelial neoplasms germ cell neoplasms trophoblastic neoplasms mesonephromas blood vessel tumors lymphatic vessel tumors osseous and chondromatous neoplasms giant cell tumors miscellaneous bone tumors odontogenic tumors gliomas neuroepitheliomatous neoplasms meningiomas nerve sheath tumors granular cell tumors and alveolar soft part sarcomas Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s lymphomas other lymphoreticular neoplasms plasma cell tumors mast cell tumors immunoproliferative diseases leukemias miscellaneous myeloproliferative disorders lymphoproliferative disorders and myelodysplastic syndromes.

In particular a compound of formula II according to the invention shows therapeutic efficacy especially against solid neoplastic diseases e.g. epithelial neoplasms squamous cell neoplasms basal cell neoplasms transitional cell papillomas and carcinomas adenomas und adenocarcinomas adnexal and skin appendage neoplasms mucoepidermoid neoplasms cystic neoplasms mucinous and serous neoplasms ductal lobular and medullary neoplasms acinar cell neoplasms complex epithelial neoplasms specialized gonadal neoplasms paragangliomas and glomus tumors naevi and melanomas soft tissue tumors and sarcomas fibromatous neoplasms myxomatous neoplasms lipomatous neoplasms myomatous neoplasms complex mixed and stromal neoplasms fibroepithelial neoplasms synovial like neoplasms mesothelial neoplasms germ cell neoplasms trophoblastic neoplasms mesonephromas blood vessel tumors lymphatic vessel tumors osseous and chondromatous neoplasms giant cell tumors miscellaneous bone tumors odontogenic tumors gliomas neuroepitheliomatous neoplasms meningiomas nerve sheath tumors granular cell tumors and alveolar soft part sarcomas.

The compounds of the invention are likewise active against autoimmune diseases e.g. against systemic discoid or subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis antiphospholipid syndrome CREST progressive systemic sclerosis mixed connective tissue disease Sharp syndrome Reiter s syndrome juvenile arthritis cold agglutinin disease essential mixed cryoglobulinemia rheumatic fever ankylosing spondylitis chronic polyarthritis myasthenia gravis multiple sclerosis chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Guillan Barr syndrome dermatomyositis polymyositis autoimmune hemolytic anemia thrompocytopenic purpura neutropenia type I diabetes mellitus thyroiditis including Hashimoto s and Grave disease Addison s disease polyglandular syndrome pemphigus vulgaris foliaceus sebaceous and vegetans bullous and cicatricial pemphigoid pemphigoid gestationis epidermolysis bullosa acquisita linear IgA disease lichen sclerosus et atrophicus morbus Duhring psoriasis vulgaris guttate generalized pustular and localized pustular psoriasis vitiligo alopecia greata primary biliary cirrhosis autoimmune hepatitis all forms of glomerulonephritis pulmonal hemorrhage goodpasture syndrome IgA nephropathy pernicious anemia and autoimmune gastritis inflammatory bowel diseases including colitis ulcerosa and morbus Crohn Behcet s disease Celic Sprue disease autoimmune uveitis autoimmune myocarditis granulomatous orchitis aspermatogenesis without orchitis idiopatic and secondary pulmonary fibrosis inflammatory diseases with a possibility of autoimmune pathogensesis such as pyoderma gangrensosum lichen ruber sarcoidosis including Lofgren and cutaneous subcutaneous type granuloma anulare allergic type I and type IV immunolgical reaction asthma bronchiale pollinosis atopic contact and airborne dermatitis large vessel vasculitis giant cell and Takayasu s arteritis medium sized vessel vasculitis polyarteritis nodosa Kawasaki disease small vessel vasculitis Wegener s granulomatosis Churg Strauss syndrome microscopic polangiitis Henoch Schoenlein purpura essential cryoglobulinemic vasculitis cutaneous leukoldastic angiitis hypersensitivity syndromes toxic epidermal necrolysis Stevens Johnson syndrome erythema multiforme diseases due to drug side effects all forms of cutaneous organ specific and systemic effects due to type I VI Coombs classification immunologic forms of reaction transplantation related pathologies such as acute and chronic graft versus host and host versus graft disease involving all organs skin heart kidney bone marrow eye liver spleen lung muscle central and peripheral nerve system connective tissue bone blood and lymphatic vessel genito urinary system ear cartilage primary and secondary lymphatic system including bone marrow lymph node thymus gastrointestinal tract including oro pharynx esophageus stomach small intestine colon and rectum including parts of above mentioned organs down to single cell level and substructures e.g. stem cells .

A compound of formula II can be administered alone or in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents possible combination therapy taking the form of fixed combinations or the administration of a compound of the invention and one or more other therapeutic agents being staggered or given independently of one another or the combined administration of fixed combinations and one or more other therapeutic agents. A compound of formula II can besides or in addition be administered especially for tumor therapy in combination with chemotherapy radiotherapy immunotherapy surgical intervention or a combination of these. Long term therapy is equally possible as is adjuvant therapy in the context of other treatment strategies as described above. Other possible treatments are therapy to maintain the patient s status after tumor regression or even chemopreventive therapy for example in patients at risk. Particularly preferred is the use of compounds of formula II in combination with radiotherapy.

Therapeutic agents for possible combinations are especially one or more cytostatic or cytotoxic compounds for example a chemotherapeutic agent or several selected from the group comprising indarubicin cytarabine interferon hydroxyurea bisulfan or an inhibitor of polyamine biosynthesis an inhibitor of protein kinase especially of serine threonine protein kinase such as protein kinase C or of tyrosine protein kinase such as epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase a cytokine a negative growth regulator such as TGF or IFN an aromatase inhibitor a classical cytostatic an inhibitor of the interaction of an SH2 domain with a phosphorylated protein an inhibitor of Bcl 2 and modulators of the Bcl 2 family members such as Bax Bid Bad Bim Nip3 and BH3 only proteins

A compound according to the invention is not only for the prophylactic and preferably therapeutic management of humans but also for the treatment of other warm blooded animals for example of commercially useful animals for example rodents such as mice rabbits or rats or guinea pigs. Such a compound may also be used as a reference standard to permit a comparison with other compounds.

With the groups of preferred compounds of formula II mentioned hereinafter definitions of substituents from the general definitions mentioned hereinbefore may reasonably be used for example to replace more general definitions with more specific definitions or especially with definitions characterized as being preferred.

A specific embodiment of the invention are compounds of formula II as such i.e. which are not in form of a salt. It has been found namely that the salt form is not required to provide a sufficient solubility of the compounds in aqueous media. This is particularly the case with the compound of formula II wherein Rrepresents the group of formula

A further especially preferred selection of the compounds of formula II are the compounds of formulae

The compounds of the invention may be prepared by processes that are known per se in particular a process wherein a compound of formula I II 

Acylation of a compound of formula I II with an amino acid of formula III is performed in a manner known per se usually in the presence of a suitable polar or dipolar aprotic solvent with cooling or heating as required for example in a temperature range from approximately minus 80 C. to approximately plus 150 C. more preferably from minus 30 C. to plus 120 C. especially in a range from approximately around 0 C. to the reflux temperature of the used solvent. Optionally a suitable base is added in particularly an aromatic base like pyridine or collidine or a tertiary amine base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine or an inorganic basic salt e.g. potassium or sodium carbonate.

Acylation may be accomplished under conditions used for amide formation known per se in peptide chemistry e.g. with activating agents for the carboxy group such as carbodiimides like N N diethyl N N dipropyl N N diisopropyl N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and N 3 dimethylaminoisopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDC or with agents such as 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBt benzotriazol 1 yloxytris dimethylamino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate BOP O 7 aza benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyl uronium hexafluorophosphate HATU 2 2 oxo 1 2H pyridyl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TPTU optionally in the presence of suitable bases catalysts or co reagents. The carboxy group may also be activated as acyl halogenide preferably as acyl chloride e.g. by reaction with thionylchloride or oxalylchloride or as symmetrical or unsymmetrical anhydride e.g. by reaction with halogeno formates like ethyl chloroformate optionally in the presence of suitable bases catalysts or co reagents.

If one or more other functional groups for example carboxy hydroxy or amino are or need to be protected in a compound of formula I II or III because they should not take part in the reaction these are such protecting groups as are usually applied in the synthesis of amides like in particular peptide compounds cephalosporins penicillins nucleic acid derivatives and sugars which are known to the skilled persons. Suitable protecting groups for amino groups are for example t butyl carbamate benzyl carbamate or 9 fluorenylmethyl carbamate.

The protecting groups may already be present in precursors and should protect the functional groups concerned against unwanted secondary reactions such as alkylation acylation etherification esterifications oxidations solvolysis and similar reactions. It is a characteristic of protecting groups that they lend themselves readily i.e. without undesired secondary reactions to removal typically by solvolysis reduction photolysis or also by enzyme activity for example under conditions analogous to physiological conditions and that they are not present in the end products. The specialist knows or can easily establish which protecting groups are suitable with the reactions mentioned hereinabove and hereinafter.

The protection of such functional groups by such protecting groups the protecting groups themselves and their removal reactions are described for example in standard reference books for peptide synthesis and in special books on protective groups such as J. F. W. McOmie Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry Plenum Press London and New York 1973 in Methoden der organischen Chemie Methods of organic chemistry Houben Weyl 4th edition Volume 15 I Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974 and in T. W. Greene G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Wiley New York 2006.

In the additional process steps carried out as desired functional groups of the starting compounds which should not take part in the reaction may be present in unprotected form or may be protected for example by one or more of the protecting groups mentioned hereinabove under protecting groups . The protecting groups are then wholly or partly removed according to one of the methods described there.

Salts of a compound of formula II with a salt forming group may be prepared in a manner known per se. Acid addition salts of compounds of formula II may thus be obtained by treatment with an acid or with a suitable anion exchange reagent.

Salts can usually be converted to free compounds e.g. for acid addition salts by treating with suitable basic agents for example with alkali metal carbonates alkali metal hydrogencarbonates or alkali metal hydroxides typically potassium carbonate or sodium hydroxide.

It should be emphasized that reactions analogous to the conversions mentioned in this chapter may also take place at the level of appropriate intermediates.

All process steps described here can be carried out under known reaction conditions preferably under those specifically mentioned in the absence of or usually in the presence of solvents or diluents preferably such that are inert to the reagents used and able to dissolve these in the absence or presence of catalysts condensing agents or neutralising agents for example ion exchangers typically cation exchangers for example in the Hform depending on the type of reaction and or reactants at reduced normal or elevated temperature for example in the range from minus 100 C. to about 190 C. preferably from about minus 80 C. to about 150 C. for example at minus 80 to 60 C. at minus 20 to 40 C. at room temperature or at the boiling point of the solvent used under atmospheric pressure or in a closed vessel where appropriate under pressure and or in an inert atmosphere for example under argon or nitrogen.

Salts may be present in all starting compounds and transients if these contain salt forming groups. Salts may also be present during the reaction of such compounds provided the reaction is not thereby disturbed.

At all reaction stages isomeric mixtures that occur can be separated into their individual isomers e.g. diastereomers or enantiomers or into any mixtures of isomers e.g. racemates or diastereomeric mixtures.

In the preferred embodiment the compounds of formula II are prepared according to or in analogy to the processes and process steps described in the Examples.

The starting materials of formula I II and III are known and are either commercially available or can be synthesized in analogy to or according to methods that are known in the art. The manufacture of compounds of formula I II is e.g. described in WO2004 103994 and can be performed e.g. according to the following general reaction scheme 

The compounds of formula II can also be manufactured as shown for the corresponding lysine amide prodrugs in the following reaction scheme wherein Cbz means benzyloxycarbonyl 

This process cannot only be used for manufacturing the compounds of present formula II but can advantageously also be used for manufacturing prodrug amides of compounds of formula I as defined in WO2004 103994 with any naturally occurring amino acid in general e.g the prodrug amides of the compounds of formula I II as defined above with said amino acids i.e. with glycine alanine arginine asparagine asparaginic acid cysteine glutamine glutaminic acid histidine isoleucine leucine lysine methonine phenylalanine proline serine threonine tryptophane tyrosine or valine for example.

The present invention relates also to pharmaceutical compositions that comprise a compound of formula II as active component or ingredient and that can be used especially as a medicament in particular in the treatment of the diseases mentioned above.

Compositions for enteral administration such as nasal buccal rectal or especially oral administration or for parenteral administration such as intravenous intramuscular or subcutaneous administration to warm blooded animals especially humans are especially preferred. The compositions comprise the active ingredient preferably together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The dosage of the active ingredient depends upon the disease to be treated and upon the species its age weight and individual condition the individual pharmacokinetic data and the mode of administration.

The invention relates also to pharmaceutical compositions for use in a method for the prophylactic or especially therapeutic management of the human or animal body in particular in a method of treating neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease especially those mentioned hereinabove.

The invention relates also to processes and to the use of compounds of formula II for the preparation of pharmaceutical preparations which comprise compounds of formula II or salts thereof as a pharmaceutically active component.

The present invention also relates to the use of compounds of formula II in depot systems for local drug delivery such as biodegradable polymers.

A pharmaceutical composition for the prophylactic or especially therapeutic management of a neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease of a warm blooded animal especially a human or a mammal requiring such treatment comprising a compound of formula II as active ingredient in a quantity that is prophylactically or especially therapeutically active against the said diseases is likewise preferred.

The pharmaceutical compositions comprise from approximately 1 to approximately 95 active ingredient. Single dose administration forms preferably comprise from approximately 20 to approximately 90 active ingredient and forms that are not of single dose type preferably comprise from approximately 5 to approximately 20 active ingredient. Unit dose forms are for example coated and uncoated tablets ampoules vials suppositories or capsules. Further dosage forms are for example ointments creams pastes foams tinctures lip sticks drops sprays dispersions etc. Examples are capsules containing from about 0.01 g to about 1.0 g active ingredient.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are prepared in a manner known per se for example by means of conventional mixing granulating coating dissolving or lyophilizing processes.

Specific preference is given to the use of solutions of the active ingredient especially aqueous solutions in particular isotonic aqueous solutions which for example in the case of lyophilized compositions comprising the active ingredient alone or together with a carrier for example mannitol can be made up before use. The pharmaceutical compositions may be sterilized and or may comprise excipients for example preservatives stabilizers wetting agents and or emulsifiers solubilizers salts for regulating osmotic pressure and or buffers and are prepared in a manner known per se for example by means of conventional dissolving and lyophilizing processes. The said solutions or suspensions may comprise viscosity increasing agents typically sodium carboxymethylcellulose carboxymethylcellulose dextran polyvinylpyrrolidone or gelatins or also solubilizers e.g. Tween 80 polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan mono oleate .

The manufacture of injectable preparations is usually carried out under sterile conditions as is the filling for example into ampoules or vials and the sealing of the containers.

Suitable carriers are especially fillers such as sugars for example lactose saccharose mannitol or sorbitol cellulose preparations and or calcium phosphates for example tricalcium phosphate or calcium hydrogen phosphate and also binders such as starches for example corn wheat rice or potato starch methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and or polyvinylpyrrolidone and or if desired disintegrators such as the above mentioned starches also carboxymethyl starch crosslinked polyvinylpyrrolidone alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate. Additional excipients are especially flow conditioners and lubricants for example silicic acid talc stearic acid or salts thereof such as magnesium or calcium stearate and or polyethylene glycol or derivatives thereof.

Tablet cores can be provided with suitable optionally enteric coatings through the use of inter alia concentrated sugar solutions which may comprise gum arabic talc polyvinyl pyrrolidone polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide or coating solutions in suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures or for the preparation of enteric coatings solutions of suitable cellulose preparations such as acetylcellulose phthalate or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate. Dyes or pigments may be added to the tablets or tablet coatings for example for identification purposes or to indicate different doses of active ingredient.

Pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration also include hard capsules consisting of gelatin and also soft sealed capsules consisting of gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The hard capsules may contain the active ingredient in the form of granules for example in admixture with fillers such as corn starch binders and or glidants such as talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active ingredient is preferably dissolved or suspended in suitable liquid excipients such as fatty oils paraffin oil or liquid polyethylene glycols or fatty acid esters of ethylene or propylene glycol to which stabilizers and detergents for example of the polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid ester type may also be added.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for rectal administration are for example suppositories that consist of a combination of the active ingredient and a suppository base. Suitable suppository bases are for example natural or synthetic triglycerides paraffin hydrocarbons polyethylene glycols or higher alkanols.

For parenteral administration aqueous solutions of an active ingredient in water soluble form for example of a water soluble salt or aqueous injection suspensions that contain viscosity increasing substances for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose sorbitol and or dextran and if desired stabilizers are especially suitable. The active ingredient optionally together with excipients can also be in the form of a lyophilizate and can be made into a solution before parenteral administration by the addition of suitable solvents.

Solutions such as are used for example for parenteral administration can also be employed as infusion solutions.

Preferred preservatives are for example antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or microbicides such as sorbic acid or benzoic acid.

The present invention relates furthermore to a method for the treatment of a neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease which comprises administering a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein the radicals and symbols have the meanings as defined above for formula II in a quantity effective against said disease to a warm blooded animal requiring such treatment. The compounds of formula II can be administered as such or especially in the form of pharmaceutical compositions prophylactically or therapeutically preferably in an amount effective against the said diseases to a warm blooded animal for example a human requiring such treatment. In the case of an individual having a bodyweight of about 70 kg the daily dose administered is from approximately 0.01 g to approximately 5 g preferably from approximately 0.05 g to approximately 1.5 g of a compound of the present invention.

The present invention relates especially also to the use of a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof especially a compound of formula II which is said to be preferred or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as such or in the form of a pharmaceutical formulation with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for the therapeutic and also prophylactic management of one or more of the diseases mentioned hereinabove in particular a neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease.

The preferred dose quantity composition and preparation of pharmaceutical formulations medicines which are to be used in each case are described above.

The following Examples serve to illustrate the invention without limiting the invention in its scope.

Abbreviations Cbz benzyloxycarbonyl DIPEA N N diisopropyl N ethylamine DMAP N N dimethylaminopyridine DMF N N dimethylformamide DMSO dimethyl sulfoxide eq equivalent ESI electrospray ionization HATU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate THF tetrahydrofuran.

All reagents and solvents are of commercial quality and used without further purification unless otherwise noted.

Mass spectra ESI MS are recorded on a Waters Micromass ZQ spectrometer a Varian 1200L Quadrupole MS spectrometer or an Agileant 1100 LC MSD spectrometer.

NMR spectra are obtained with a Broker Avance 400 MHz spectrometer or a Varian Mercury Plus 400 MHz spectrometer using DMSO d CDCl acetone d CDOD DO as solvent. The chemical shifts are expressed in ppm.

To a stirred solution of 10 g of 4 aminoacetophenone 74 mmol 1 eq in a mixture of 60 ml of water and 100 ml of dioxane at 0 C. 12.43 g of NaHCO 148 mmol 2 eq and 15.3 g of benzyl chloroformate 85 mmol 1.15 eq purity 95 are added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 4 h and then concentrated under reduced pressure to remove the dioxane. The suspension is diluted with 70 ml of water and 150 ml of ethyl acetate. The phases are separated and the organic layer is washed with 2 50 ml of brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 19.5 g of the product as solid.

A mixture of 18.5 g of 4 acetyl phenyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 95 65.3 mmol 1 eq and 30.7 g of CuBr 138 mmol 2.1 eq in 740 ml of ethanol is heated to reflux for 2 h. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is filtered and the residue is washed with 2000 ml of ethyl acetate. The acidic pH

To an ice cooled stirred solution of 10 g of 2 benzimidazolylacetonitrile 63.6 mmol 1 eq in 50 ml of glacial acetic acid is added dropwise a solution of 4.83 g of sodium nitrite 70 mmol 1.1 eq dissolved in a minimum amount of water 10 mL . When the addition is completed the reaction mixture is allowed to stir at room temperature for 1 h. The precipitate formed in the course of the reaction is filtered and washed with 2 20 ml of cold water and 2 30 ml of diethylether to provide 11.8 g of the product as light yellow solid.

To an ice cooled stirred solution of 13.2 g of hydroxylamine hydrochloride 190 mmol 3 eq in 20 ml of water 15.3 g of potassium hydroxide 27.2 mmol 4.3 eq are slowly added. Then 60 ml of diglyme diethylene glycol dimethyl ether and 11.8 g of 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl hydroxyimino acetonitrile 63.4 mmol 1 eq are added. The ice bath is removed and the reaction mixture is heated to reflux for 8 h bath temperature 170 C. . After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is filtered and the residue is washed with water to give the first crop of the desired product 6.2 g . The filtrate is treated with 150 ml of water. The resulting suspension is filtered and washed with water to provide a second product crop 2.17 g . Both crops are combined and used in the next step.

To an ice cooled stirred solution of 18.2 g of 4 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamine 90.5 mmol 1 eq in 240 ml of pyridine are added 30 ml of sodium methoxide solution 30 in MeOH 163 mmol 1.8 eq and subsequently 6 ml of acrylonitrile 90.5 mmol 1 eq . The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature overnight before it is concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is suspended in 250 ml of water and extracted with 4 400 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers are washed with 2 500 ml of brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product is dissolved in about 1000 ml of refluxing ethyl acetate. Then 1700 ml of n hexane are added to the solution. The resulting turbid mixture is allowed to stand at room temperature overnight and the formed precipitate is filtered to provide 11.1 g of the product as light yellow solid. The filtrate is concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure and the residue is suspended in 100 ml of a 1 1 mixture of n hexane ethyl acetate. The suspension is filtered to provide 4.7 g additional product.

To a stirred solution of 11.1 g of 3 4 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamino propionitrile 95 41.5 mmol 1 eq in 90 ml of N N dimethylformamide are added 7.84 g of potassium carbonate 56.8 mmol 1.3 eq followed by 23.25 g of 4 2 bromo acetyl phenyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 75 50.1 mmol 1.2 eq . The reaction mixture is stirred for 4 h at room temperature. Then 700 ml of water are added and the resulting suspension is extracted with 3 800 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers are washed with water and brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give the crude product as dark brown solid. This crude product is suspended in 150 ml of a 2 1 ethyl acetate methanol mixture. Filtration provides 12.63 g of the desired product as light brown powder.

To a suspension of 6.4 g of 4 2 2 4 2 cyano ethylamino furazan 3 yl benzoimidazol 1 yl acetyl phenyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 12.3 mmol 1 eq in a mixture of 700 ml of ethyl acetate and 500 ml of methanol are added 1.3 g of 10 palladium on carbon. The reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h under hydrogen atmosphere 1 atm at room temperature. Then it is filtered through celite and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product as a light yellow solid which is suspended in 60 ml of a 7 5 ethyl acetate methanol mixture. Filtration provides 3.5 g of the desired product as off white solid. The filtrate is concentrated and the residue is treated as above with 5 ml of the 7 5 ethyl acetate methanol mixture. Filtration gives 0.45 g of a second crop of the product.

To a solution of 1.926 g N N di Z L lysine 4.65 mmol 1.2 eq in 10 ml dry N N dimethylformamide at 0 C. are added 0.862 g of 4 methylmorpholine 8.52 mmol 0.937 ml 2.2 eq and 0.572 g of ethyl chloroformate 5.27 mmol 0.503 ml 1.36 eq and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 10 min. Then a solution of 1.5 g of 3 4 1 2 4 amino phenyl 2 oxo ethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamino propionitrile 3.87 mmol 1 eq in 10 ml dry N N dimethylformamide is added and the mixture is stirred at room temperature overnight. The conversion is not complete therefore another 0.385 g of N N di Z L lysine 0.93 mmol 0.24 eq in a small amount of N N dimethylformamide and 0.172 g of 4 methylmorpholine 1.7 mmol 0.187 ml 0.44 eq and 0.114 g of ethyl chloroformate 1.05 mmol 0.1 ml 0.27 eq are added and the reaction mixture is stirred overnight at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture is diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with 5 citric acid solution and brine. The organic layer is dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is washed with a mixture of dichloromethane and diisopropylether and dried under reduced pressure to provide 2.38 g of the product as an off white solid.

3.73 g of N N di Z L lysine 9.0 mmol 1.2 eq 1.82 g of 2 3 5 collidine 15 mmol 1.95 ml 2 eq and 5.7 g of HATU 15 mmol 2 eq are dissolved in 50 ml of dry N N dimethlyformamide and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 5 min. Then a solution of 2.9 g of 3 4 1 2 4 amino phenyl 2 oxo ethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamino propionitrile 7.5 mmol 1 eq in 30 ml dry N N dimethylformamide is added and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 2 days. Another 0.37 g of N N di Z L lysine 0.9 mmol 0.12 eq are added and the mixture is stirred for one day at room temperature. Another 0.74 g of N N di Z L lysine 1.8 mmol 0.24 eq 0.36 g of 2 3 5 collidine 3 mmol 0.39 ml 0.4 eq and 1.14 g of HATU 3 mmol 0.4 eq are added and the reaction mixture is stirred for one day at room temperature.

Then the reaction mixture is diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water 5 citric acid solution and brine. The organic layer is dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is washed with a mixture of cyclohexane dichloromethane ethyl acetate 1 2 2 and subsequently with a mixture of dichloromethane diisopropylether 1 1. Then it is dried under reduced pressure to provide 4.26 g of the product as an off white solid.

A solution of 4.77 g of S 5 benzyloxycarbonylamino 5 4 2 2 4 2 cyano ethylamino furazan 3 yl benzoimidazol 1 yl acetyl phenylcarbamoyl pentyl carbamic acid benzylester 6.09 mmol 1 eq in a mixture of 200 ml THF 50 ml methanol and 3.5 ml 2 N hydrochloric acid is treated with 0.129 g of Pd C 10 and the resulting mixture is stirred for 5 h at room temperature under hydrogen atmosphere 1 atm . Then the catalyst is removed by filtration and the solvents are removed under reduced pressure. The residue is purified by MCI gel chromatography with water acetonitrile 3 1 as eluent to provide the desired product.

Conversion into hydrochloride salt The product is dissolved in a mixture of 50 ml dioxane and 20 ml methanol and treated with 4 ml of a 4 M solution of HCl in dioxane. Then the solvents are removed under reduced pressure. The residue is washed with a mixture of dichloromethane and diisopropylether and dried under reduced pressure to provide 1.59 g of the product as an off white powder.

In a 250 ml flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer 5.0 g of N N dibenzyloxycarbonyl L lysine 12.06 mmol 1.0 eq 9.17 g of HATU 24.13 mmol 2.0 eq and 2.19 g of 2 4 6 collidine 18.10 mmol 1.5 eq are dissolved in 70 ml of N N dimethylformamide then 1.96 g of 4 aminoacetophenone 14.48 mmol 1.2 eq are added. The light yellow mixture is stirred at 10 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture is diluted with 40 ml of saturated aqueous NHCl solution. The white precipitate is filtered and the filter cake is washed thoroughly with water and isopropyl ether to give the 5.3 g of the desired product as solid.

In a 100 ml flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer 0.5 g of S 5 4 acetyl phenylcarbamoyl 5 benzyloxycarbonylamino pentyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 0.94 mmol 1.0 eq is dissolved in 15 ml of chloroform and 15 ml of ethyl acetate then 0.53 g of cupric bromide 2.35 mmol 2.5 eq is added to the flask. The dark green mixture is stirred at 78 C. for 6 h. The mixture is cooled to room temperature diluted with 40 ml of dichloromethane and filtered. The filtrate is washed with 20 ml of water and the phases are separated. The aqueous phase is extracted twice with 10 ml of dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to afford the crude product which is purified by recrystallization from 3 ml of toluene to provide 350 mg of the desired product as light yellow solid.

In a 50 ml flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer 1.3 g of S 5 benzyloxycarbonylamino 5 4 2 bromo acetyl phenylcarbamoyl pentyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 2.13 mmol 1.0 eq and 569 mg of 3 4 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamino propionitrile 2.24 mmol 1.05 eq are dissolved in 20 ml of N N dimethylformamide then 441 mg of potassium carbonate 3.19 mmol 1.5 eq are added to the flask at room temperature. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 30 min.

Then it is diluted with 20 ml of saturated aqueous NHCl solution. The resulting precipitate is filtered and washed thoroughly with water and methanol to give 1.3 g of the desired product as light yellow solid.

The following compounds are prepared in analogy to above described methods either as free base or hydrochloride salt 

To a stirred solution of 0.06 g of N BOC glycine CAS 4530 20 5 0.34 mmol 1.2 eq. in 1 mL of N N dimethylformamide are added 0.16 g of 2 7 aza 1H benzotriazole 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 0.43 mmol 1.5 eq. and 0.1 mL of triethylamine 0.71 mmol 2.5 eq. at room temperature. After stirring for 0.5 h at room temperature a solution of 0.1 g of 2 2 4 amino furazan 3 yl benzoimidazol 1 yl 1 4 amino phenyl ethanone CAS 798577 83 0 0.28 mmol 1 eq. in 1 mL of N N dimethylformamide is added. The reaction solution is stirred overnight at room temperature. Then a solution of 0.03 g of N BOC glycine 0.17 mmol 0.6 eq. containing 0.08 g of 2 7 aza 1H benzotriazole 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU 0.22 mmol 0.75 eq. and 0.05 mL of triethylamine 0.35 mmol 1.25 eq. in 0.5 mL of N N dimethylformamide is added to the reaction solution at room temperature. The same mixture is added again after additional 24 h and additional 8 h. The reaction mixture is then further stirred for 64 h total reaction time 120 h . The reaction mixture is diluted with ethyl acetate 10 mL and then washed with water 10 mL 10 citric acid aqueous solution 10 mL brine 2 5 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness to give crude product. The crude product is subjected to silica gel column chromatography eluent ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1 to 4 1 . The obtained material is recrystallized from dichloromethane to afford 0.085 g of the desired product as a white powder.

To a stirred solution of 0.045 g of 4 2 2 4 amino furazan 3 yl benzoimidazol 1 yl acetyl phenylcarbamoyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 0.09 mmol 1 eq. in 0.5 mL of 1 4 dioxane are added dropwise 0.11 mL of a 4M HCl solution in 1 4 dioxane 0.44 mmol 5 eq. at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at room temperature. Then 5 mL of diisopropylether are added and the resulting suspension is filtered washed with diisopropylether 2 2 mL and dried under reduced pressure to give 0.04 g of crude material. The crude solid is subjected to MCI gel column chromatography eluting with a mixture water acetonitrile 85 15 to 70 30 containing 0.05 of HCl to afford 0.014 g of the desired product as an orange powder.

To a stirred suspension of 0.5 g of 4 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamine CAS 332026 86 5 2.49 mmol 1.0 eq. in 15 mL of dry tetrahydrofuran cooled to 0 C. are added portionwise 0.075 g of sodium hydride 2.98 mmol 1.2 eq. . After stirring for 10 min at 0 5 C. the resulting clear solution is treated with 0.54 mL of 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl chloride 2.91 mmol 1.17 eq. . The reaction solution is stirred for 0.5 h at 0 5 C. and then diluted with 30 mL of ethyl acetate. The solution is washed with water 20 mL and brine 20 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness. The oily residue is triturated in diisopropylether 10 mL and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure to give 0.78 g of the desired product as an off white solid.

To a stirred suspension of 1.42 g of N Z glycine CAS 1138 80 3 6.65 mmol 2.9 eq. in 4 mL of dichloromethane are added dropwise 1.23 mL of 1 chloro N N 2 trimethyl 1 propenylamine 9.17 mmol 4 eq. at room temperature. The resulting clear solution is stirred for 1 h and then concentrated to dryness to give the corresponding acid chloride as colorless oil. In a sealed tube a stirred solution of 0.8 g of 4 1 2 trimethylsilanyl ethoxymethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamine 2.29 mmol 1.0 eq. in 10 mL of tetrahydrofuran cooled to 0 5 C. is treated portionwise with 0.29 g of sodium hydride 11.5 mmol 5 eq. and then with a solution of the freshly prepared acid chloride in 5 mL of tetrahydrofuran. At the end of the addition the ice bath is removed and the cap is locked. The solution is heated to 70 C. and stirred for 21 h at this temperature. The reaction mixture is allowed to cool down to room temperature and is then diluted with 40 mL of ethyl acetate. Water 30 mL is carefully added and the two layers are separated. The organic phase is washed with brine 2 20 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to give the crude product. The crude product is purified by silica gel column chromatography eluent ethyl acetate cyclohexane 5 95 to 55 45 to give 0.57 g of the desired product as a white solid.

0.55 g of 4 1 2 trimethylsilanyl ethoxymethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylcarbamoyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 1.00 mmol 1 eq. are added portionwise to 2.75 mL of trifluoroacetic acid 35.3 mmol 35 eq. at room temperature. The solution is stirred for 1 h and then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is dissolved in 3 mL of THF. Then 2 mL of an aqueous solution of 8 sodium hydrogen carbonate are added. The resulting biphasic mixture is heated to 50 C. and vigorously stirred for 1.5 h. Then the mixture is diluted with 10 mL of ethyl acetate and 5 mL of water and the organic layer is separated washed with brine 5 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to give 0.4 g of the desired product as a white solid.

To a stirred solution of 0.4 g of 4 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylcarbamoyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 0.97 mmol 1 eq. in 6 mL of N N dimethylformamide are added 0.2 g of potassium carbonate 1.4 mmol 1.45 eq. at room temperature followed by the addition of 0.41 g of 4 2 bromo acetyl phenyl carbamic acid benzyl ester CAS 157014 41 0 1.16 mmol 1.2 eq. . The reaction mixture is stirred for 2 h at room temperature and is then diluted with 20 mL of ethyl acetate. The solution is washed with water 2 10 mL and brine 2 10 mL dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is then dissolved in hot ethyl acetate 2 mL and the solution is placed in an ice bath. After 0.5 h the resulting suspension is filtered and the solid is washed with cold ethyl acetate 1 mL to afford 0.2 g of the desired product as a white powder.

A mixture of 0.2 g of 4 2 2 4 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino acetylamino furazan 3 yl benzoimidazol 1 yl acetyl phenyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 0.29 mmol 1 eq. in 2 mL of tetrahydrofuran and 2 mL of methanol containing 0.19 mL of a solution of 4M HCl in 1 4 dioxane 0.86 mmol 3 eq. and 0.046 g of 10 Pd C 0.04 mmol 0.14 eq. is stirred for 7 hours under hydrogen atmosphere at room temperature. Then the mixture is filtered and the filtrate is concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is suspended in 2 mL of a mixture of dichloromethane diisopropylether 1 1 v v and the suspension is filtered. The solid is washed with 2 mL of diisopropylether and dried under reduced pressure to give the crude product. The solid is purified by MCI gel column chromatography eluent water acetonitrile 75 25 to 65 35 containing 0.1 of HCl to afford 0.02 g of the desired product as a light brown powder.

A solution of 0.05 ml N N diisopropylethylamine in 1 mL of N N dimethylformamide is slowly added to a solution of 116 mg 0.3 mmol 3 4 1 2 4 amino phenyl 2 oxo ethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamino propionitrile and 459 mg 0.3 mmol phosphorus oxychloride in 3 mL of N N dimethylformamide at 10 C. After the addition the mixture is allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for three days. Then saturated aqueous ammoniumchloride solution is added and the reaction mixture is extracted with dichloromethane. A precipitate is formed in the dichloromethane phase. This precipitate is collected by filtration washed with water and dichloromethane and dried under reduced pressure. The residue is solved in acetonitrile and the solution is added to a 2 N solution of sodium hydroxide in water at 0 C. The resulting pH value is above 11. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The formed precipitate is collected by filtration washed with water and acetonitrile and dried under reduced pressure to provide 89 mg of the desired product.

50 L 0.75 mmol of chlorosulfonic acid are added dropwise to 603 L 7.5 mmol pyridine under cooling in an ice ethanol bath. After stirring the mixture for 1 h 116 mg 0.3 mmol 3 4 1 2 4 amino phenyl 2 oxo ethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamino propionitrile dissolved in a small amount of pyridine are added and the mixture is stirred at room temperature overnight. Aqueous 1 N sodium hydroxide solution is added until pH10 is reached. Then the mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is treated with water and the solid product 143 mg is obtained by centrifugation followed by washing with water and drying under reduced pressure.

Compounds provided as 20 mM or 10 mM stock solutions in 100 DMSO are diluted 1 40 in aqueous buffer to a concentration of 0.5 mM or 0.25 mM respectively with 2.5 residual DMSO. The pH 6.5 buffer consists of 0.05 M 3 N morpholino 2 hydroxypropanesulfonic acid MOPSO adjusted to the target pH with NaOH. Buffers at pH 5 and pH 3 are prepared from commercially available concentrates Titrisol Merck . The samples are then incubated at room temperature for 6 hours with gentle shaking followed by vacuum filtration through a MultiScreen DV plate Durapore hydrophilic PVDF membrane 0.65 m pore size Millipore . The filtrates are adjusted to 20 acetonitrile and analyzed by UV spectroscopy to obtain the absorption maximum and the corresponding wavelength. The concentration of compound in the filtrate is calculated based on the linear part of a standard curve constructed using 3 to 5 known concentrations of each sample in aqueous buffer supplemented with 20 acetonitrile.

All amino acid derived prodrugs show an improved aqueous solubility compared to the parent drug. The highest solubility is obtained at pH 3 for all prodrugs. At pH 5 and pH 6.5 the lysine prodrug shows the highest solubility.

The compounds are evaluated in vivo after intravenous administration to male NMRI mice using the Vena saphena screening method.

A dose of 1 mg kg of the compound is administered i.v. as a bolus 5 mL kg . Serial blood samples 40 L are drawn after puncture of the saphenous vein and collected in a sodium heparin coated capillary tube from two mice per time point at pre dose 5 min 15 min 30 min 45 min 1 h 2 h 4 h 6 h 8 h and 24 h after intravenous administration.

Blood samples are weighed and the blood quenched in 300 l stop solution consisting of acetonitrile water 80 20 and an internal standard.

Blood concentrations of the compound prodrug and its parent drug are determined using LC MS MS analysis with a limit of quantification of 4 to 40 ng mL.

Mean arithmetic plasma blood concentrations are calculated using BLQ below limit of quantitation value of zero if necessary.

In a study mice are intravenously treated with prodrugs according to the invention followed by determination of the blood concentration of the drug. For comparison similar amide prodrugs based on other natural amino acids are also tested.

It is found that lysine glycine and alanine derived prodrugs give at least 50 higher AUC values of the parent drug than the comparative prodrugs based on the chemically most closely related natural amino acids. This remarkable increase in exposure to the parent drug after administration of the prodrugs according to the invention is quite surprising and unexpected.

After intravenous administration of Example 14 and Example 15 to mice no significant levels of the parent drug 3 4 1 2 4 amino phenyl 2 oxo ethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamino propionitrile are detected.

CD 1 Nu Nu female mice implanted with the human colon carcinoma SW480 cell line are treated with either the Parent Drug i.e. 3 4 1 2 4 amino phenyl 2 oxo ethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamino propionitrile or Example 1 i.e. S 2 6 diamino hexanoic acid 4 2 2 4 2 cyano ethylamino furazan 3 yl benzoimidazol 1 yl acetyl phenyl amide hydrochloride salt when the tumor size reached approximately 150 mm 10 . Mice 33 per compound are treated i.v. 5 mL kg once a week with 10 mg kg Parent Drug vehicle NMP 6.7 Solutol HS15 10 Kolidon12 8.3 in demineralized water or 24.5 mg kg Example 1 vehicle sodium acetate in saline qs pH 5 for 2 weeks. Due to body weight losses 10 in a few animals the application volumes are subsequently reduced to 4 mL kg resulting in doses of 8 mg kg Parent Drug and 19.6 mg kg Example 1 for a further week.

After the 4application 4week three mice sampling point from the Parent Drug and Example 1 groups are culled before and 5 min 15 min 30 min 45 min 1 h 1.5 h 2 h 4 h 6 h and 24 h post administration. Blood is collected by cardiac puncture into KEDTA tubes kept on ice until centrifugation at 4 C. Plasma is stored at 20 C. At necropsy tumors are removed and weighed. Tumors are stored at 20 C. Plasma and tumor samples are analyzed by LC MS MS. Pharmacokinetic parameters are calculated using WinNonLin 5.2. All results for Example 1 represent the free base.

Tumor distribution of the Parent Drug administered either as such or in form of Example 1 is demonstrated. Tumor concentrations are detected already in the first sampling time at 5 min post administration. The tumor plasma ratio is approximately 1. There is no accumulation in tumors as the concentration in tumor parallels the concentration in plasma. However after administration of Example 1 the exposure of tumors to the Parent Drug and Example 1 is almost two times longer half life Tof 8.3 and 9.6 h compared to the exposure after administration of the drug Tof 5.4 h .

Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Parent Drug in Plasma and Tumor Tissue after I.V. Administration of 8 mg kg Parent Drug to Xenografted Mice

Mice bearing SW480 colorectal cancer xenografts are used to test and compare the anti cancer efficacy and tolerability of intravenous i.v. application of the prodrug according to Example 1 S 2 6 diamino hexanoic acid 4 2 2 4 2 cyano ethylamino furazan 3 yl benzoimidazol 1 yl acetyl phenyl amide hydrochloride salt and the corresponding parent drug 3 4 1 2 4 amino phenyl 2 oxo ethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 ylamino propionitrile at the maximum tolerated dose level MTD . Prior to the efficacy experiment a determination of the MTD of each compound administered once weekly is performed in non tumor bearing nude mice of the same strain. Administration of 24.5 mg kg prodrug and 10 mg kg parent drug given as an i.v. bolus once weekly results in body weight losses 10 in a few animals in both groups. The MTDs in tumor bearing mice are therefore determined to be 15 20 lower resulting in doses of 21 mg kg prodrug and 8 mg kg parent drug. Human colorectal carcinoma cells SW480 are injected subcutaneously 4 10cells into the back of 4 8 week old athymic nude mice. Tumor volumes are determined from calliper measurements of tumor length L and width 1 according to the formula L l 2. Tumors are allowed to expand to a volume of 200 mm 10 before treatment start. The prodrug and parent drug are administered i.v. for 24 days either once per week at 21 mg kg and 8 mg kg respectively or three times a week d1 4 7 at 7.1 mg kg and 2.7 mg kg respectively both schedules represent the same total weekly dose . Tumor volume and body weight are monitored daily.

Using the once weekly schedule cf. the prodrug elicits a final T C ratio of tumor volume in the treatment group vs. the control group at day 24 of 34 p

The three times per week administration of prodrug provides a significant better efficacy in the mouse xenograft cancer model than a corresponding administration of the parent drug p

Comparison of the Prodrug Drug Conversion of the Prodrug According to Example 12 Present Invention and the Prodrug According to Example 13 Comparison in Full Blood

495 L fresh heparinised rat blood are spiked with 5 L of a 1 mg mL DMSO solution of the analyte prodrug at 37 C. After t 0 5 15 30 60 and 120 min a blood sample is taken and precipitated. Therefore to 50 L blood sample or spiked blood sample 150 L acetonitrile containing an internal standard are added. Samples are centrifuged and 20 l of the supernatant are injected into the HPLC system for determination of compound concentration prodrug and parent drug by LC MS MS analysis.

For calibration a standard curve is prepared with a compound concentration range from 10 to 10000 ng mL in fresh heparine rat blood. Therefore the blood is spiked 2 L DMSO solution in 198 L fresh rat blood and precipitated like unknown samples.

The prodrug 2 amino N 4 2 2 4 amino furazan 3 yl benzoimidazol 1 yl acetyl phenyl acetamide according to the present invention Example 12 is completely converted into its parent drug 2 2 4 amino furazan 3 yl benzoimidazol 1 yl 1 4 amino phenyl ethanone in rat blood after 120 min whereas the conversion of the regioisomer of said prodrug 2 amino N 4 1 2 4 amino phenyl 2 oxo ethyl 1H benzoimidazol 2 yl furazan 3 yl acetamide Example 13 is remarkably lower approximately 74 after 120 min .

