---

title: Combined optical and coaxial hub for routing an upstream signal from a two-way digital output to an existing hybrid fiber coax network
abstract: A device for routing an upstream signal from a two-way digital output to an existing hybrid fiber coax network. A first path includes an input for receiving downstream optical signals associated with data and a two-way digital port for communicating the data of the downstream optical signals to a subscriber. A second path includes a hybrid fiber coax input and a two-way hybrid fiber coax port for communicating with the subscriber. A filter is disposed in the first path for routing an upstream signal from the subscriber at the two-way digital port to the second path for forwarding upstream via the hybrid fiber coax input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08467686&OS=08467686&RS=08467686
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08467686
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100628
---
This disclosure relates in general to hybrid fiber coax networks and more particularly to a combined optical and coaxial hub for routing an upstream signal from a two way digital output to an existing hybrid fiber coax network.

Today consumers are enjoying better value from broadband services as a result of the additional choices in a highly competitive multichannel video marketplace. Through these broadband services consumers are experiencing higher quality programming and more advanced technology. Still telecommunication companies continue to invest in deploying new broadband networks to provide interactive services for entertainment communication and lifestyle applications.

While there are multiple network structures capable of supporting broadband services providers of such networks continue to study how to integrate and take advantage of fiber optic network structures. As a result an ever increasing percentage of broadband providers are investing in fiber optic network structures to support both present and future bandwidth requirements. For example CATV cable television HDTV high definition television VoIP voice over internet protocol and broadband internet are some of the most common applications now being supported by fiber optic networks in some cases directly to the home FTTH Fiber to the Home .

Competition is crucial for promoting consumer welfare and spurring innovation and investment in broadband access networks. Competition provides consumers the benefits of choice better service and lower prices. This competition has induced broadband providers to invest in the above mentioned network upgrades. Much of the population is able to choose from two providers for very high peak speeds providers with fiber to the premises FTTP and DOCSIS 3.0 infrastructure . However providers offering fiber to the node FTTN and then DSL from the node to the premises while potentially much faster than traditional DSL may not be able to match the peak speeds offered by FTTP and DOCSIS 3.0. Accordingly telephone companies have invested in deploying fiber to the home FTTH .

The speeds of fiber optic and copper cables are both limited by length but copper is much more sharply limited in this respect. Replacing at least part of the copper links in a network with fiber shortens the remaining copper segments and thereby allows the networks to run much faster. Fiber configurations that bring fiber right into the building can offer the highest speeds since the remaining segments can use standard Ethernet or coaxial cable. Fiber configurations that transition to copper in a street cabinet are generally too far from the users for standard Ethernet configurations over existing copper cabling. FTTH extends from the central office to the subscriber s living or working space. Once at the subscriber s living or working space the signal may be conveyed throughout the space using any means including twisted pair coaxial cable wireless power line communication or optical fiber.

There are two competing optical distribution network architectures. Active optical networks rely on electrically powered equipment to distribute the signal such as a switch router or multiplexer. A passive optical network PON is a point to multipoint fiber to the premises network architecture in which unpowered optical splitters are used to enable a single optical fiber to serve multiple premises. Once on private property the signal typically travels the final distance to the end user s equipment using an electrical format.

While FTTH has its advantage with raw capacity it suffers from high cost and technology limitations. Satellite has the advantage of providing all digital content and plenty of capacity. However satellite also has a high infrastructure and CPE cost. Cable companies rely on hybrid fiber coaxial HFC which combines optical fiber and coaxial cable. The fiber optic network extends from the headend of the cable operator network to a hub in a neighborhood and finally to a fiber optic node that typically serves anywhere from 25 to 2000 homes.

To compete against the technologies of telephony companies and satellite television companies cable companies need to capitalize on the advantages the HFC network while minimizing any disadvantages. If HFC can be leveraged to an entire customer base customer loyalty will be maintained while preserving existing capital investment.

Accordingly it can be seen that there is a need for a combined optical and coaxial hub for routing an upstream signal from a two way digital output to an existing hybrid fiber coaxial network.

To overcome the limitations described above and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification embodiments for a combined optical and coaxial hub for routing an upstream signal from a two way digital output to an existing hybrid fiber coax network are disclosed.

An embodiment includes a device for routing an upstream signal from a two way digital output to an existing hybrid fiber coax network. The device includes a first path having an input for receiving downstream optical signals associated with data and a two way digital port for communicating the data of the downstream optical signals to a subscriber and a second path having a hybrid fiber coax input and a two way hybrid fiber coax port for communicating with the subscriber wherein the first path further comprises a filter disposed therein for routing an upstream signal from the subscriber at the two way digital port to the second path for forwarding upstream via the hybrid fiber coax input.

In another embodiment a communications system is provided. The communications system includes a hybrid fiber coax network for providing broadband communication services to subscribers the hybrid fiber coax network comprising fiber optic cable extending from a headend to fiber optic nodes and coaxial cable extending from the fiber optic node to premises of the subscribers the hybrid fiber coax segment providing a standard level of service to the subscribers a fiber optic segment for providing fiber to the home of a subset of the subscribers subscribing to a premium level of service and a home interface device for routing an upstream signal from subscribers of the premium level of service to the hybrid fiber coax network wherein the home interface device further includes a first path having an input for receiving downstream optical signals associated with data and a two way digital port for communicating the data of the downstream optical signals to a subscriber and a second path having a hybrid fiber coax input and a two way hybrid fiber coax port for communicating with the subscriber wherein the first path further comprises a filter disposed therein for routing an upstream signal from the subscriber at the two way digital port to the second path for forwarding upstream via the hybrid fiber coax input.

In another embodiment a method for routing an upstream signal from a two way digital port to a hybrid fiber coax network is provided. The method includes receiving from a headend of a network provider a downstream fiber optic signal at an optical coax hub located proximate to premises of a subscriber receiving at the optical coax hub an upstream signal initiated by the customer and intended for routing to the headend of the network provider and transferring the upstream signal to a hybrid fiber coax network for transmission to the headend of the network provider.

These and various other advantages and features of novelty are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and form a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the disclosed embodiments the advantages and the objects obtained reference should be made to the drawings which form a further part hereof and to accompanying descriptive matter in which there are illustrated and described specific examples of the disclosed embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a combined optical and coaxial hub for routing an upstream signal from a two way digital output to an existing hybrid fiber coax network. The two way HFC network may be used to provide optical downstream and coax upstream. Accordingly the 75 of the cost of the fiber optic network is not incurred because a two way HFC network and the optical coax hub eliminate the need.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modem CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a frequency between and megahertz. The signaling space between and megahertz is generally divided into megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box .

According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

Master Telecommunications Centers MTCs are placed in a service area to deploy fiber to support high speed data video and voice service provisioning and delivery to residences and businesses. MTCs are also referred to as master headends MHe headends HE etc. From the MTCs a supertrunk is used to distribute broadband signals to local hubs. From the hubs the broadband signal is sent out to the distribution network. Coaxial cable may be used to provide the signals to the subscriber s homes.

The network represents a substantial investment that cost into the billions of dollars. Accordingly network providers do not want to simply scrap all the components in their existing network as deploy more fiber optic cables. The optical coax hub according to an embodiment allows all of the investment in HFC to be used while simultaneously investing in laying fiber.

Existing HFC works really well for a large percentage of customers. However premium customers are more profitable and are willing to pay more for more services i.e. more channels faster high speed Internet speed etc. As a consequence companies are moving to deploy fiber optic cable further toward the customer. A large percentage of customers are willing or demanding for the additional services that optical fiber can provide.

When cable fiber optic is installed on a street taps are distributed along the path. For example for a traditional cable line tap devices are distributed along poles if the cable is overhead cable or at a pedestal if the cable runs underground. Taps for fiber optics may also be built. Rather than considering reclaiming some fiber for higher end uses such as businesses an optical coax hub may be used to leverage the investment in fiber cable.

A fiber optic node has a broadband optical transceiver which converts the downstream optically modulated signal coming from the headend and distribution hub to an electrical signal going to the homes . The transceiver of fiber optic node also provides a reverse return path for sending communication from the home back to the headend . The optical portion of the network provides a large amount of flexibility. Wavelength division multiplexing can be used to combine multiple optical signals onto the same fiber. There are also techniques to put multiple downstream and upstream signals on a single fiber by putting them at different wavelengths.

The coaxial portion of the network may connect 25 to 2000 homes . For example the homes may be coupled to the coaxial network in a tree and branch configuration off of nodes . Trunk amplifiers may be positioned after the nodes to correct for any attenuation. Trunk coaxial cables may be connected to the optical node and form coaxial backbones to which smaller distribution cables connect. Trunk cables may also carry AC power that may be added to the cable line by a power supply and a power inserter.

From the trunk cables smaller distribution cables are connected to a port of the trunk amplifier to carry the RF signal and the AC power down individual streets. If needed line extenders which are smaller distribution amplifiers boost the signals to keep the power of the television signal at a level that a television can accept. RF amplifiers may be placed at intervals to overcome cable attenuation and passive losses of the electrical signals caused by splitting or tapping the coaxial cable. The distribution line is then tapped into and used to connect the individual drops to customer homes. The tap terminates into a small coaxial drop and the drop is then connected to the homes .

Accordingly hybrid fiber coax HFC network is used in the vast majority of the cable TV industry as the line that provides signals to homes of subscribers. However communications companies in particular cable companies have invested in laying fiber optic cables.

When considering providing fiber to a home the cost of delivering signals between the home and the headend must be taken into consideration. A quarter of the cost of a fiber optic network is traceable to providing the signal downstream to the home. The remaining portion of the costs 75 occurs when the customer is using a cable modem ordering a video on demand movie or using a telephone service that needs to use the cable provider network to provide upstream signals. Such signals may include the signal that is generated when the remote is used to pause a pay per view PPV movie.

In a fiber optic cable comes into the optical coax hub and is received by an optical receiver . A weather connector may be used to protect the port against the elements. As discussed above 25 of the cost of a fiber optic network is traceable to delivering all the downstream signals to the home. The signal from the optical receiver is provided to switch . The switch is in the normal position and the signal passes to the two way digital output . An optical power detector monitors the optical signal input to power an actuator for controlling switch . When the optical power detector detects that there is no optical signal at optical signal input the optical power detector causes actuator to change the state of switch to the bypass position .

A signal may also be received at port labeled 5 42 MHz 50 1000 MHz HFC network. The signal may be fed to the equalizer and to the pad plug in . From there the signal may proceed to splitter coupler and finally to the two way HFC output . The two way HFC output may also provide a signal in the reverse direction to port labeled 5 42 MHz 50 1000 MHz HFC network.

However the optical coax hub according to an embodiment of the invention provides upstream signals e.g. from two way digital output back upstream to the headend. The signal passes from two way digital output to the L diplex filter . The diplex filter L receives the upstream signal and sends the upstream signal to an operational amplifier a low pass filter a pad plug in a directional coupler and then feeds to the splitter . At the splitter the signal may feed to the pad plug in the equalizer and to the port labeled 5 42 MHz 50 1000 MHz HFC network.

Accordingly the upstream signal from two way digital output has been transferred to the existing HFC network. A new downstream fiber optic delivers digital signals to the home but the existing HFC network is used to deliver the upstream signal. Thus the cable company or other communications network provider does not have to build the upstream network. Thus the two way HFC network may provide optical downstream and coax upstream. Accordingly the 75 of the cost of the fiber optic network is not incurred because a two way HFC network and the optical coax hub eliminate the need.

As a result fiber optics does not have to be built to the home of every single customer. Rather fiber only has to be provided to the houses that require advanced services. The optical coax hub may be placed on line and now high definition channels can be provided simultaneously to every television in the house. The limiting parameter is the optical receiver . As optical receivers advance however additional channels may be provided by using the more advanced optical receivers . Alternatively the current technology may be used but instead of a single optical receiver multiple optical receivers may be included in the optical coax hub . In this scenario a single fiber comes in that uses multiple different wavelengths.

For example with two different wavelengths the number of channels may be doubled. The optical coax hub may be configured to support the use of different wavelengths on a single fiber which translates into over 8000 simultaneous high definition channels if the necessary optical receivers are also implemented. Thus if a customer had 8000 television sets in their house they could watch a different program on every single one of those TV sets at the same time. On the headend of the network additional transmitters couplers etc. would have to be used to transmit that many wavelengths. However the infrastructure i.e. the fiber optic network already exists. Only additional electronics need be installed in the cable plant.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

