---

title: Systems and methods for training one or more training users
abstract: Systems and methods for training users. Surgical data related to surgical procedures done by expert level users is collected from surgical robots. The surgical data is segmented into surgemes and dexemes. The training users are trained at a level of the surgemes and/or a level of the dexemes by guiding the training users with surgical simulators to practice the surgemes and/or the dexemes, wherein the surgical simulators simulate surgery done by an expert level user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09196176&OS=09196176&RS=09196176
owner: THE JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY
number: 09196176
owner_city: Balitmore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100319
---
This application claims priority to patent application 61 162 007 filed Mar. 20 2009 entitled Method for Automatically Evaluating Skill for Motion Training which is herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under 0534359 EEC9731478 and 0205348 awarded by the NSF as well as an award by the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Virtual training systems have gained increasing acceptance and sophistication in recent years. However inadequate training can lead to a higher incidence of mistakes. Thus clinicians desire a more objective method for quantifying clinical technical skill.

Various systems that involve a human machine interface including virtual systems can involve human motions that are random in nature. A person performing a repeatable task multiple times often generates different motion measurements e.g. forces velocities positions etc. despite the fact that the measurements represent the same task performed with the same level of skill. Thus skill modeling should uncover and measure the underlying characteristics of skill hidden in measurable motion data.

One example of such a system that includes a human machine interface is a teleoperated robotic surgical system such as the da Vinci Surgical System commercialized by Intuitive Surgical Inc. A skilled operator may perform a particular task many times when using a teleoperated robotic surgical system even though the operator exhibits many small motion characteristic variations among the many task performances. And an operator with a less proficient skill level will often exhibit motion characteristics when performing the particular task that are significantly different from the skilled operator s motion characteristics for the task.

What is desired is a way to identify how an unskilled or lesser skilled operator s motion characteristics compare with a skilled operator s motion characteristics so that the unskilled or lesser skilled operator s task proficiency can be objectively quantified. What is also desired is a way to provide an objective quantification of an operator s skill level that can be used to help train the operator to perform at a higher skill level. In particular it is desirable to objectively quantify particular surgical task performances of a surgeon who is learning to use a telerobotic surgical system and then to use the task performance information to help the surgeon achieve a more proficient performance level.

A system and method are provided for quantifying technical skill. Data can be collected for a surgical task that a user performs. The data can then be compared to other data for the same surgical task. The level of expertise of the user can then be determined based on the comparing and the clinical skill of the user can be quantified.

In some embodiments data indicating how a skilled user performs a surgical task can be collected and this data can be compared to collected data indicating how a second user performs the surgical task so as to determine the second user s clinical skill. In some embodiments the collected data indicating how a skilled user performs a surgical task can be used to train the second user.

In one embodiment the surgical system can include a surgeon s console a vision cart and a patient side cart . These main system components may be interconnected in various ways such as by electrical or optical cabling or by wireless connections. Electronic data processing necessary to operate system may be centralized in one of the main components or it may be distributed among two or more of the main components a reference to an electronic data processor a computer or a similar term therefore can include one or more actual hardware firmware or software components that may be used to produce a particular computational result .

The patient side cart can include one or more robotic manipulators and one or more movable surgical instrument components associated with such manipulators such as the ones illustrated in . illustrates various possible kinematic components and their associated movements e.g. degrees of freedom which may be variously defined as pitch yaw roll insertion withdrawal grip and the like and also illustrative joints that may be associated with degrees of freedom for these components. illustrates possible parameters data points relating to these degrees of freedom as well as other system components e.g. kinematic parameters such as joint position and velocity Cartesian position and velocity rotation matrix values etc. for the master manipulators joint position and velocity Cartesian position of the remote center of motion rotation matrix values set up joint values etc. for the patient side cart various servo times button positions etc. at various places on the system etc. . These data parameters can be used when measuring a surgeon s movements which may be characterized by surgeme and dexeme motions that are described in more detail below.

As illustrated by system the surgical system may include an application programming interface API which may be accessed via an Ethernet connection on e.g. an interface on surgeon s console or on another system component. Various system parameters such as those identified with reference to may be monitored and recorded stored archived etc. via the API.

Video data collected by an endoscopic imaging system mounted on patient side cart may be processed through vision cart and output to the surgeon at surgeon s console . The video data may be stereoscopic e.g. left and right eye channels so as to give the illusion of depth in an apparent three dimensional 3 D image or it may be monoscopic. The video data may be accessed via one or more video output ports in system such as video output connectors located on interface . The accessed video data may be recorded and the video data recording may be synchronized with data output via the API so that system parameters being monitored and video data may be recorded and stored as synchronized with one another.

As shown in system includes a computer which may be a platform separate from and connected to one or more of the other system components or which may be integral with one or more of the other system components. A quantifying skill computer application can be stored in a memory to be accessed and executed by computer .

Collected data can be encrypted and transferred to an attached portable cartridge e.g. coupled to computer not shown using a cartridge drive at the end of a data collection session. Many recorded procedures carried out by one or more persons can be stored on the cartridge. The data from the cartridge can be uploaded to a secure repository e.g. via a network or internetwork such as the Internet or the data from the cartridge drive can be physically sent to another system for storage and or analysis. Alternatively the collected data can be transferred from computer directly via network or internetwork to a computer at another location for storage and or analysis.

An anonymized list of users that use the surgical system can be maintained and each user can be assigned a unique ID. The collected and archived data can use the unique ID so that the user can be identified only by the unique ID when doing further analysis.

Archived data can be segmented at various granularity levels for a particular trial task or procedure. For example the archived data may be segmented into trial e.g. procedure level data surgeme e.g. procedure sub task level data or dexeme e.g. particular motion component of sub task level data. These levels of data and how they are utilized are described in more detail below.

Archived data can be securely stored. In one embodiment only users or entities participating in the data collection may access the archived data.

Still referring to in data can be gathered from one or more surgical systems that one or more surgeons use to perform surgical procedures. Thus for example motion data can be gathered from surgeons who have different expertise levels as the surgeons perform surgical tasks using the one or more surgical systems. For example in one embodiment a telerobotic surgical system can be used to perform a trial e.g. procedure that involves a suturing task e.g. surgical joining of two surfaces . Data can be collected using the telerobotic surgical system. The data can comprise multiple positions rotation angles and velocities of the surgeon console master manipulators and or the patient side manipulators of the telerobotic surgical system. The gathered data may also include video data collected from the surgical system during the trial or a portion of the trial as described above.

Still referring to in the trial data can be segmented and or labeled. illustrates various levels that can be used to segment break up a procedure according to one embodiment. As noted above recorded data can be segmented into trial e.g. procedure data task data surgeme e.g. sub task data or dexeme e.g. motion of sub task data. Skill evaluation and training can be done at each level. P can be the trial or procedure level e.g. radical prostatectomy hysterectomy mitral valve repair . T and T are illustrative of various task levels e.g. suturing which are tasks that need to be done in the procedure. S S are illustrative of surgeme levels e.g. needle pulling which are sub tasks needed for a task. As shown in for example task T is segmented into surgemes S S and task T is segmented into surgemes S S. M M are illustrative of various dexeme levels which are motion elements of a sub task dexemes represent small dextrous motions . Dexemes can be used to distinguish temporal sub gestures of a single gesture as well as stylistic variations between samples of the same gesture. For example some gestures in a suturing task such as navigating a needle through the tissue can be more indicative of expertise than other gestures such as pulling thread. Such fine grained assessment can lead to better automatic surgical assessment and training. As illustrated in for example surgeme S is segmented into dexemes M M and M and surgeme S is segmented into dexemes M M and M. Thus a particular dexeme may be a component of a single surgeme or it may be a component of two or more surgemes. Likewise any relatively finer grained segment may be a component of only one or more than one relatively courser grained segment of the next highest level.

In some embodiments the data can be automatically segmented into surgemes. The motion data can be automatically segmented by normalizing the data and projecting it to a lower dimension using linear discrimination analysis LDA . For more information on LDA see Fisher R. The use of multiple measurements in taxonomic problems. Annals of Eugenics 7 1936 179 188. A Bayes classifier can then decide the most likely surgeme present for each data in the lower dimension based on learned probabilities from training labeled data sets. For more information on how the data can be automatically segmented see H. Lin et al. Towards Automatic Skill Evaluation Detection and Segmentation of Robot Assisted Surgical Motions Computer Aided Surgery September 2006 11 5 220 230 2006 which is herein incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment this automatic classification can be checked for accuracy. In order to do this i 1 2 . . . k can be used to denote the surgeme label sequence of a trial with in the set 1 . . . 11 and k 20 and b e the begin and end time of 1 b

Determining the accuracy of the automatic segmentation y . . . y as compared to manual segmentation can then be done using the following formula 

The surgemes can also be automatically segmented using other methods. For example in another embodiment the motion data can be automatically segmented by normalizing the data and projecting it to a lower dimension using linear discrimination analysis LDA as described above. Then the lower dimension data xcan be plugged in the following formula and run for every possible value for which can represent every type of way to segment the lower dimension data .

The same formula can be used to break up the lower dimension data into dexemes. If we use a Viterbi algorithm to segment the projected kinematic data with respect to the HMM state sequences we get a dexeme level segmentation of the data. Such dexeme level segmentation are valuable for performing dexterity analysis. For more information on Viterbi algorithms see L. Rabiner A Tutorial on Hidden Markov Models and Selected Applications in Speech Recognition IEEE 77 2 1989 257 286.

A discrete HMM can be represented by A B which can include the state transition probability distribution matrix A a where ais the transition probability of a transition from state i to state j the observation symbol probability distribution matrix B b k where b O P o v q j is the output probability of symbol vbeing emitted by state j and the initial conditions of the system . For more information on HMMs see L. Rabiner A Tutorial on Hidden Markov Models and Selected Applications in Speech Recognition IEEE 77 2 1989 257 286.

Referring back to in after the trial is segmented and or labeled clinical skill can be quantified by making comparisons between data.

The segmented data produced in accordance with in can be used to identify the most likely skill model to have produced certain segmented data. For example once the data has been segmented into a sequence of surgemes or dexemes this sequence Ocan be compared to various skill level models expert intermediate and novice . The skill level of the test data can be labeled expert intermediate or novice based on which skill level is closest to the test data based on the following distance formula 

It should be noted that the motion labels can be used to explore appropriate ways for evaluating the skill of the motions. In addition the time per task including the time per surgeme and dexeme can be compared. In some embodiments idle motion time at the start and end of the trial motion does not need to be used for data analysis. The motions the timing of the motions and the sequence of motions executed by the user can be used to make conclusions about the relative skill of a user that is performing each trial.

For example illustrates the difference between the movements of experts intermediates and novice surgeons. As the surgeon s skill increases the graph of his or her movements shows that the movements become more directed. In this example the expert surgeon shown as graphs a and d accomplishes a task using fewer movements whereas the novice surgeon shown as graphs c and f made more errors during the task and thus used extraneous motions and started over. also illustrates that an idle surgeme during a task may represent an error e.g. dropping a needle and so may be significant to a skill level analysis. Thus an otherwise substantially similar surgeme may be assigned a separate label or it may be identified as significant because of its position in a sequence of surgemes.

Furthermore different analytical performance metrics and time and number of motions can also reveal differences between the three expertise level groups. The expert group can show an average of 56.2 seconds to complete the task while intermediates can use an average of 77.4 seconds and novices can complete the task in an average of 82.5 seconds. Thus there is a correlation between time and the number of surgemes used in a trial. The average number of surgemes used to complete the task were 19 21 and 20 for experts intermediates and novices respectively.

By decomposing the time spent per surgeme observations can be made such as 1 experts performed certain surgemes more efficiently than novices and 2 experts did not use certain surgemes. illustrates an embodiment in which the time for various surgeme motions is analyzed. For example less experienced surgeons typically spent more time positioning and inserting the needle surgeme motions and respectively than experts particularly to guide the needle tip to emerge through the marked exit point. In one case manual analysis revealed that experts spent a per trial average of 28.04 seconds using motions and collectively intermediates 48.51 seconds and novices 56.59 seconds. As shown in another indicator of skill was that experts hardly used intermediate positioning surgemes such as motion move to center with right hand motion pulling suture with right hand and motion orienting the needle with both tools which are shown by the bottom bars associated with each surgeme in . When retrieving the needle from the starting position and when handing the needle from one tool to the other between suture throws expert surgeons were able to grasp the needle in an orientation that did not need readjusting i.e. no surgeme motion was indicated for any expert . Intermediates used this two hand orienting motion surgeme twelve times and required fewer motions to complete a task more quickly than surgeons with even less skill. Such economy of motion is often subjectively gauged for surgical skill evaluation and it is now objectively shown in accordance with the analysis embodiment illustrated in .

Note that in there are no models for surgeme motion and of an expert and no models for surgeme motion of an intermediate because in this example these surgeme motions were never used by these expertise groups. In the example in there were higher recognition rates for surgemes where experts performed more efficiently than novices surgemes than surgemes that experts did not use surgemes . For the surgemes that experts did not use intermediates and novices were commonly misclassified with each other suggesting that they performed these surgemes very similarly. Surgemes 66.8 overall 67 expert 75 intermediate 50 novice and 66.8 overall 65 expert 92 intermediate 50 novice were difficult to classify correctly indicating that certain surgemes are not as discriminative of skill as others.

As an additional example of an analysis embodiment the left side portion of illustrates the Cartesian positions of the right hand of an expert performing a four throw suturing task and the right side portion of illustrates the Cartesian positions of the right hand of a novice performing the same four throw suturing task. Various colors and or marks along the position lines may be associated with the various surgemes each surgeon used during the task. This figure graphically illustrates the many differences in movement between a surgeon with an expert skill level and a surgeon with a novice skill level.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments.

In addition it should be understood that the figures described above which highlight the functionality and advantages of the present invention are presented for example purposes only. The architecture of the present invention is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be utilized in ways other than that shown in the figures.

Further the purpose of the Abstract of the Disclosure is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The Abstract of the Disclosure is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the present invention in any way.

Finally it is the applicant s intent that only claims that include the express language means for or step for be interpreted under 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6. Claims that do not expressly include the phrase means for or step for are not to be interpreted under 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6.

