---

title: Method of preparing cysteine mutants of human recombinant GM-CSF
abstract: The growth hormone supergene family comprises greater than 20 structurally related cytokines and growth factors. A general method is provided for creating site-specific, biologically active conjugates of these proteins. The method involves adding cysteine residues to non-essential regions of the proteins or substituting cysteine residues for non-essential amino acids in the proteins using site-directed mutagenesis and then covalently coupling a cysteine-reactive polymer or other type of cysteine-reactive moiety to the proteins via the added cysteine residue. Disclosed herein are preferred sites for adding cysteine residues or introducing cysteine substitutions into the proteins, and the proteins and protein derivatives produced thereby. Also disclosed are therapeutic methods for using the cysteine variants of the invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08148500&OS=08148500&RS=08148500
owner: Bolder BioTechnology, Inc.
number: 08148500
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100921
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 502 839 filed Jul. 14 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 824 669 which is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 612 373 filed Dec. 18 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 560 101 which is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 298 148 filed Nov. 15 2002 now U.S Pat. No. 7 153 943 entitled Derivatives of Growth Hormone and Related Proteins and Methods of Use Thereof which claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 332 285 filed Nov. 15 2001 entitled Methods of Use for Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor Cysteine Muteins and from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 418 040 filed Oct. 11 2002 entitled Methods of Use for Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor Cysteine Muteins. U.S. application Ser. No. 10 298 148 is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 462 941 filed Jan. 14 2000 entitled Derivatives of Growth Hormone and Related Proteins now U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 183 which is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application Serial No. PCT US98 14497 filed Jul. 13 1998 which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 052 516 filed Jul. 14 1997. The entire disclosure of each of the above identified applications is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made in part with Government support under Grant Numbers 1R43 CA084850 and 2R44 CA084850 awarded by the National Institutes of Health NIH . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to genetically engineered therapeutic proteins and methods of using such proteins. More specifically the engineered proteins include cysteine variants of growth hormone and related members of the growth hormone supergene family.

The following proteins are encoded by genes of the growth hormone GH supergene family Bazan 1990 Mott and Campbell 1995 Silvennoinen and Ihle 1996 Blumberg et al. 2001 growth hormone prolactin placental lactogen erythropoietin EPO thrombopoietin TPO interleukin 2 IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 9 IL 10 IL 11 IL 12 p35 subunit IL 13 IL 15 IL 19 IL 20 IL 21 MDA 7 IL TIF AK 155 oncostatin M ciliary neurotrophic factor leukemia inhibitory factor alpha interferon beta interferon gamma interferon omega interferon tau interferon granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF macrophage colony stimulating factor M CSF and cardiotrophin 1 CT 1 the GH supergene family . It is anticipated that additional members of this gene family will be identified in the future through gene cloning and sequencing. Members of the GH supergene family have similar secondary and tertiary structures despite the fact that they generally have limited amino acid or DNA sequence identity. The shared structural features allow new members of the gene family to be readily identified.

There is considerable interest on the part of patients and healthcare providers in the development of long acting user friendly protein therapeutics. Proteins are expensive to manufacture and unlike conventional small molecule drugs are not readily absorbed by the body. Moreover they are digested if taken orally. Therefore natural proteins must be administered by injection. After injection most proteins are cleared rapidly from the body necessitating frequent often daily injections. Patients dislike injections which leads to reduced compliance and reduced drug efficacy. Some proteins such as erythropoietin EPO are effective when administered less often three times per week for EPO because they are glycosylated. However glycosylated proteins are produced using expensive mammalian cell expression systems.

The length of time an injected protein remains in the body is finite and is determined by e.g. the protein s size and whether or not the protein contains covalent modifications such as glycosylation. Circulating concentrations of injected proteins change constantly often by several orders of magnitude over a 24 hour period. Rapidly changing concentrations of protein agonists can have dramatic downstream consequences at times under stimulating and at other times over stimulating target cells. Similar problems plague protein antagonists. These fluctuations can lead to decreased efficacy and increased frequency of adverse side effects for protein therapeutics. The rapid clearance of recombinant proteins from the body significantly increases the amount of protein required per patient and dramatically increases the cost of treatment. The cost of human protein pharmaceuticals is expected to increase dramatically in the years ahead as new and existing drugs are approved for more disease indications.

Thus there is a need to develop protein delivery technologies that lower the costs of protein therapeutics to patients and healthcare providers. The present invention provides a solution to this problem by providing methods to prolong the circulating half lives of protein therapeutics in the body so that the proteins do not have to be injected frequently. This solution also satisfies the needs and desires of patients for protein therapeutics that are user friendly i.e. protein therapeutics that do not require frequent injections. The present invention solves these and other problems by providing biologically active cysteine added variants of members of the growth hormone supergene family. The invention also provides for the chemical modification of these variants with cysteine reactive polymers or other types of cysteine reactive moieties to produce derivatives thereof and the molecules so produced. The invention also provides for therapeutic methods using the protein variants described herein.

The present invention provides cysteine variants of members of the GH supergene family and uses of such cysteine variants. The variants comprise a cysteine residue substituted for a nonessential amino acid of the proteins. Preferably the variants comprise a cysteine residue substituted for an amino acid selected from amino acids in the loop regions the ends of the alpha helices proximal to the first amphipathic helix and distal to the final amphipathic helix or wherein the cysteine residue is added at the N terminus or C terminus of the proteins. Preferred sites for substitution are the N and O linked glycosylation sites. According to the present invention proximal to the first amphipathic helix refers to a position preceding or N terminal to the first amphipathic helix i.e. closer to the amino terminus of the protein than the first amphipathic helix . Similarly distal to the final amphipathic helix refers to a position following or C terminal to the final amphipathic helix i.e. further away from the amino terminus of the protein than the final amphipathic helix .

Also provided are cysteine variants wherein the amino acid substituted for is in the A B loop B C loop the C D loop or D E loop of interferon interferon 10 like members of the GH supergene family.

Also provided are cysteine variants of members of the GH supergene family wherein the cysteine residue is introduced between two amino acids in the natural protein. In particular the cysteine residue is introduced into the loop regions the ends of the alpha helices proximal to the first amphipathic helix or distal to the final amphipathic helix. Even more particularly the cysteine variant is introduced between two amino acids in an N O linked glycosylation site or adjacent to an amino acid in an N linked or O linked glycosylation site.

More particularly are provided cysteine variants wherein the loop region where the cysteine is introduced is the A B loop the B C loop the C D loop or D E loop of interferon interferon 10 like members of the GH supergene family.

Such cysteine substitutions or insertion mutations also can include the insertion of one or more additional amino acids amino acids at the amino terminal or carboxy terminal to the cysteine substitution or insertion.

Also provided are cysteine variants that are further derivatised by PEGylating the cysteine variants and including the derivatised proteins produced thereby.

As set forth in the examples specific cysteine variants of the members of the GH supergene family also are provided including for example variants of GH. The GH cysteine variants can have the substituted for amino acid or inserted cysteine located at the N terminal end of the A B loop the B C loop the C D loop the first three or last three amino acids in the A B C and D helices and the amino acids proximal to helix A and distal to helix D.

More particularly the cysteine can be substituted for the following amino acids F1 T3 P5 E33 A34 K38 E39 Q40 S43 Q46 N47 P48 Q49 T50 S51 S55 T60 A98 N99 S100 G104 A105 S106 E129 D130 G131 5132 P133 T135 G136 Q137 K140 Q141 T142 S144 K145 D147 T148 N149 S150 H151 N152 D153 5184 E186 G187 S188 and G190.

Other examples of cysteine variants according to the invention include erythropoietin variants. Erythropoietin variants include those wherein the substituted for amino acid is located in the A B loop the B C loop the C D loop the amino acids proximal to helix A and distal to helix D and the N or C terminus. Even more specifically the EPO cysteine variants include molecules wherein the amino acids indicated below have a cysteine substituted therefor serine 126 N24 I25 T26 N38 I39 T40 N83 S84 A1 P2 P3 R4 D8 S9 T27 G28 A30 E31 H32 S34 N36 D43 T44 K45 N47 A50 K52 E55 G57 Q58 G77 Q78 A79 Q86 W88 E89 T107 R110 A111 G113 A114 Q115 K116 E117 A118 S120 P121 P122 D123 A124 A125 A127 A128 T132 K154 T157 G158 E159 A160 T163 G164 D165 R166 and S85.

The members of the GH supergene family include growth hormone prolactin placental lactogen erythropoietin thrombopoietin interleukin 2 interleukin 3 interleukin 4 interleukin 5 interleukin 6 interleukin 7 interleukin 9 interleukin 10 interleukin 11 interleukin 12 p35 subunit interleukin 13 interleukin 15 oncostatin M ciliary neurotrophic factor leukemia inhibitory factor alpha interferon beta interferon gamma interferon omega interferon tau interferon granulocyte colony stimulating factor granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor macrophage colony stimulating factor cardiotrophin 1 and other proteins identified and classified as members of the family. The proteins can be derived from any animal species including human companion animals and farm animals.

Also provided are therapeutic methods for protecting an animal from a disease or condition that is amenable to treatment by any of the wild type growth hormone superfamily proteins described herein. The methods include administration of one or more cysteine variants cysteine muteins of the invention including those with agonist or antagonist functions to an animal for treatment of a disease or condition.

In one aspect provided is a method to protect an animal from a disease or condition comprising administering to the animal a composition comprising a granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF cysteine mutein as described herein.

Also provided is a method to prevent or treat the occurrence of neutropenia in an animal comprising administering to the animal a composition comprising a granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF cysteine mutein as described herein. The neutropenia to be prevented or treated using this method can include but is not limited to a neutropenia resulting from myelosuppressive chemotherapy b neutropenia associated with bone marrow transplantation c neutropenia associated with infection with the human immunodeficiency virus d neutropenia associated with burns surgery dilatation anemia and neonatal septicemia e severe chronic neutropenia or neutropenia associated with aplastic anemia and acute leukemia.

Also provided is a method to protect an animal from a disease or condition by stimulating proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic cells in the animal comprising administering to the animal a composition comprising a granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF cysteine mutein as described herein.

Also provided is a method for stimulating the expansion and proliferation of peripheral blood progenitor cells in an animal comprising administering to the animal a composition comprising a granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF cysteine mutein as described herein.

Other variations and modifications to the invention will be obvious to those skilled in the art based on the specification and the rules set forth herein. All of these are considered as part of the invention.

The present invention relates to cysteine variants and among other things the site specific conjugation of such proteins with polyethylene glycol PEG or other such moieties. PEG is a non antigenic inert polymer that significantly prolongs the length of time a protein circulates in the body. This allows the protein to be effective for a longer period of time. Covalent modification of proteins with PEG has proven to be a useful method to extend the circulating half lives of proteins in the body Abuchowski et al. 1984 Hershfield 1987 Meyers et al. 1991 . Covalent attachment of PEG to a protein increases the protein s effective size and reduces its rate of clearance rate from the body. PEGs are commercially available in several sizes allowing the circulating half lives of PEG modified proteins to be tailored for individual indications through use of different size PEGs. Other benefits of PEG modification include an increase in protein solubility an increase in vivo protein stability and a decrease in protein immunogenicity Katre et al. 1987 Katre 1990 .

The preferred method for PEGylating proteins is to covalently attach PEG to cysteine residues using cysteine reactive PEGs. A number of highly specific cysteine reactive PEGs with different reactive groups e.g. maleimide vinylsulfone and different size PEGs 2 20 kDa are commercially available e.g. from Shearwater Polymers Inc. Huntsville Ala. . At neutral pH these PEG reagents selectively attach to free cysteine residues i.e. cysteine residues not involved in disulfide bonds. The conjugates are hydrolytically stable. Use of cysteine reactive PEGs allows the development of homogeneous PEG protein conjugates of defined structure.

Considerable progress has been made in recent years in determining the structures of commercially important protein therapeutics and understanding how they interact with their protein targets e.g. cell surface receptors proteases etc. This structural information can be used to design PEG protein conjugates using cysteine reactive PEGs. Cysteine residues in most proteins participate in disulfide bonds and are not available for PEGylation using cysteine reactive PEGs. Through in vitro mutagenesis using recombinant DNA techniques additional cysteine residues can be introduced anywhere into the protein. The added cysteines can be introduced at the beginning of the protein at the end of the protein between two amino acids in the protein sequence or preferably substituted for an existing amino acid in the protein sequence. The newly added free cysteines can serve as sites for the specific attachment of a PEG molecule using cysteine reactive PEGs. The added cysteine must be exposed on the protein s surface and accessible for PEGylation for this method to be successful. If the site used to introduce an added cysteine site is non essential for biological activity then the PEGylated protein will display essentially wild type normal in vitro bioactivity. The major technical challenge in PEGylating proteins with cysteine reactive PEGs is the identification of surface exposed non essential regions in the target protein where cysteine residues can be added or substituted for existing amino acids without loss of bioactivity.

Cysteine added variants of a few human proteins and PEG polymer conjugates of these proteins have been described. U.S. Pat. No. 5 206 344 describes cysteine added variants of IL 2. These cysteine added variants are located within the first 20 amino acids from the amino terminus of the mature IL 2 polypeptide chain. The preferred cysteine variant is at position 3 of the mature polypeptide chain which corresponds to a threonine residue that is O glycosylated in the naturally occurring protein. Substitution of cysteine for threonine at position 3 yields an IL 2 variant that can be PEGylated with a cysteine reactive PEG and retain full in vitro bioactivity Goodson and Katre 1990 . In contrast natural IL 2 PEGylated with lysine reactive PEGs displays reduced in vitro bioactivity Goodson and Katre 1990 . The effects of cysteine substitutions at other positions in IL 2 were not reported.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 166 322 teaches cysteine added variants of IL 3. These variants are located within the first 14 amino acids from the N terminus of the mature protein sequence. The patent teaches expression of the proteins in bacteria and covalent modification of the proteins with cysteine reactive PEGs. No information is provided as to whether the cysteine added variants and PEG conjugates of IL 3 are biologically active. Cysteine added variants at other positions in the polypeptide chain were not reported.

PCT Publication No. WO 9412219 and PCT Application No. PCT US95 06540 teach cysteine added variants of insulin like growth factor I IGF I . IGF I has a very different structure from GH and is not a member of the GH supergene family Mott and Campbell 1995 . Cysteine substitutions at many positions in the IGF I protein are described. Only certain of the cysteine added variants are biologically active. The preferred site for the cysteine added variant is at amino acid position 69 in the mature protein chain. Cysteine substitutions at positions near the N terminus of the protein residues 1 3 yielded IGF I variants with reduced biological activities and improper disulfide bonds.

PCT Publication No. WO 9422466 teaches two cysteine added variants of insulin like growth factor IGF binding protein 1 which has a very different structure than GH and is not a member of the GH supergene family. The two cysteine added IGF binding protein 1 variants disclosed are located at positions 98 and 101 in the mature protein chain and correspond to serine residues that are phosphorylated in the naturally occurring protein.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 07 822 296 teaches cysteine added variants of tumor necrosis factor binding protein which is a soluble truncated form of the tumor necrosis factor cellular receptor. Tumor necrosis factor binding protein has a very different structure than GH and is not a member of the GH supergene family.

IGF I IGF binding protein 1 and tumor necrosis factor binding protein have secondary and tertiary structures that are very different from GH and the proteins are not members of the GH supergene family. Because of this it is difficult to use the information gained from studies of IGF I IGF binding protein 1 and tumor necrosis factor binding protein to create cysteine added variants of members of the GH supergene family. The studies with IL 2 and IL 3 were carried out before the structures of IL 2 and IL 3 were known McKay 1992 Bazan 1992 and before it was known that these proteins are members of the GH supergene family. Previous experiments aimed at identifying preferred sites for adding cysteine residues to IL 2 and IL 3 were largely empirical and were performed prior to experiments indicating that members of the GH supergene family possessed similar secondary and tertiary structures.

Based on the structural information now available for members of the GH supergene family the present invention provides rules for determining a priori which regions and amino acid residues in members of the GH supergene family can be used to introduce or substitute cysteine residues without significant loss of biological activity. In contrast to the naturally occurring proteins these cysteine added variants of members of the GH supergene family will possess novel properties such as the ability to be covalently modified at defined sites within the polypeptide chain with cysteine reactive polymers or other types of cysteine reactive moieties. The covalently modified proteins will be biologically active.

GH is the best studied member of the GH supergene family. GH is a 22 kDa protein secreted by the pituitary gland. GH stimulates metabolism of bone cartilage and muscle and is the body s primary hormone for stimulating somatic growth during childhood. Recombinant human GH rhGH is used to treat short stature resulting from GH inadequacy and renal failure in children. GH is not glycosylated and can be produced in a fully active form in bacteria. The protein has a short in vivo half life and must be administered by daily subcutaneous injection for maximum effectiveness MacGillivray et al. 1996 . Recombinant human GH rhGH was approved recently for treating cachexia in AIDS patients and is under study for treating cachexia associated with other diseases.

The sequence of human GH is well known see e.g. Martial et al. 1979 Goeddel et al. 1979 which are incorporated herein by reference SEQ ID NO 1 . GH is closely related in sequence to prolactin and placental lactogen and these three proteins were considered originally to comprise a small gene family. The primary sequence of GH is highly conserved among animal species Abdel Meguid et al. 1987 consistent with the protein s broad species cross reactivity. The three dimensional folding pattern of porcine GH has been solved by X ray crystallography Abdel Meguid et al. 1987 . The protein has a compact globular structure comprising four amphipathic alpha helical bundles joined by loops. Human GH has a similar structure de Vos et al. 1992 . The four alpha helical regions are termed A D beginning from the N terminus of the protein. The loop regions are referred to by the helical regions they join e.g. the A B loop joins helical bundles A and B. The A B and C D loops are long whereas the B C loop is short. GH contains four cysteine residues all of which participate in disulfide bonds. The disulfide assignments are cysteine53 joined to cysteine165 and cysteine182 joined to cysteine189.

The crystal structure of GH bound to its receptor revealed that GH has two receptor binding sites and binds two receptor molecules Cunningham et al. 1991 de Vos et al. 1992 . The two receptor binding sites are referred to as site I and site II. Site I encompasses the Carboxy C terminal end of helix D and parts of helix A and the A B loop whereas site II encompasses the Amino N terminal region of helix A and a portion of helix C. Binding of GH to its receptor occurs sequentially with site I always binding first. Site II then engages a second GH receptor resulting in receptor dimerization and activation of the intracellular signaling pathways that lead to cellular responses to GH. A GH mutein in which site II has been mutated a glycine to arginine mutation at amino acid 120 is able to bind a single GH receptor but is unable to dimerize GH receptors this mutein acts as a GH antagonist in vitro presumably by occupying GH receptor sites without activating intracellular signaling pathways Fuh et al. 1992 .

The roles of particular regions and amino acids in GH receptor binding and intracellular signaling also have been studied using techniques such as mutagenesis monoclonal antibodies and proteolytic digestion. The first mutagenesis experiments entailed replacing entire domains of GH with similar regions of the closely related protein prolactin Cunningham et al. 1989 . One finding was that replacement of the B C loop of GH with that of prolactin did not affect binding of the hybrid GH protein to a soluble form of the human GH receptor implying that the B C loop was non essential for receptor binding. Alanine scanning mutagenesis replacement of individual amino acids with alanine identified 14 amino acids that are critical for GH bioactivity Cunningham and Wells 1989 . These amino acids are located in the helices A B C and D and the A B loop and correspond to sites I and II identified from the structural studies. Two lysine residues at amino acid positions 41 and 172 K41 and K172 were determined to be critical components of the site I receptor binding site which explains the decrease in bioactivity observed when K172 is acetylated Teh and Chapman 1988 . Modification of K168 also significantly reduced GH receptor binding and bioactivity de la Llosa et al. 1985 Martal et al. 1985 Teh and Chapman 1988 . Regions of GH responsible for binding the GH receptor have also been studied using monoclonal antibodies Cunningham et al. 1989 . A series of eight monoclonal antibodies was generated to human GH and analyzed for the ability to neutralize GH activity and prevent binding of GH to its recombinant soluble receptor. The latter studies allowed the putative binding site for each monoclonal antibody to be localized within the GH three dimensional structure. Of interest was that monoclonal antibodies 1 and 8 were unable to displace GH from binding its receptor. The binding sites for these monoclonal antibodies were localized to the B C loop monoclonal number 1 and the N terminal end of the A B loop monoclonal number 8 . No monoclonals were studied that bound the C D loop specifically. The monoclonal antibody studies suggest that the B C loop and N terminal end of the A B loop are non essential for receptor binding. Finally limited cleavage of GH with trypsin was found to produce a two chain derivative that retained full activity Mills et al. 1980 Li 1982 . Mapping studies indicated that trypsin cleaved and or deleted amino acids between positions 134 and 149 which corresponds to the C D loop. These studies suggest the C D loop is not involved in receptor binding or GH bioactivity.

Structures of a number of cytokines including G CSF Hill et al. 1993 GM CSF Diederichs et al. 1991 Walter et al. 1992 IL 2 Bazan 1992 McKay 1992 IL 4 Redfield et al. 1991 Powers et al. 1992 and IL 5 Milburn et al. 1993 have been determined by X ray diffraction and NMR studies and show striking conservation with the GH structure despite a lack of significant primary sequence homology. EPO is considered to be a member of this family based upon modeling and mutagenesis studies Boissel et al. 1993 Wen et al. 1994 . A large number of additional cytokines and growth factors including ciliary neurotrophic factor CNTF leukemia inhibitory factor LIF thrombopoietin TPO oncostatin M macrophage colony stimulating factor M CSF IL 3 IL 6 IL 7 IL 9 IL 12 IL 13 IL 15 and alpha beta omega tau and gamma interferon belong to this family reviewed in Mott and Campbell 1995 Silvennoinen and Ihle 1996 . All of the above cytokines and growth factors are now considered to comprise one large gene family of which GH is the prototype.

In addition to sharing similar secondary and tertiary structures members of this family share the property that they must oligomerize cell surface receptors to activate intracellular signaling pathways. Some GH family members e.g. GH and EPO bind a single type of receptor and cause it to form homodimers. Other family members e.g. IL 2 IL 4 and IL 6 bind more than one type of receptor and cause the receptors to form heterodimers or higher order aggregates Davis et al. 1993 Paonessa et al. 1995 Mott and Campbell 1995 . Mutagenesis studies have shown that like GH these other cytokines and growth factors contain multiple receptor binding sites typically two and bind their cognate receptors sequentially Mott and Campbell 1995 Matthews et al. 1996 . Like GH the primary receptor binding sites for these other family members occur primarily in the four alpha helices and the A B loop reviewed in Mott and Campbell 1995 . The specific amino acids in the helical bundles that participate in receptor binding differ amongst the family members Mott and Campbell 1995 . Most of the cell surface receptors that interact with members of the GH supergene family are structurally related and comprise a second large multi gene family Bazan 1990 Mott and Campbell 1995 Silvennoinen and Ihle 1996 .

A general conclusion reached from mutational studies of various members of the GH supergene family is that the loops joining the alpha helices generally tend to not be involved in receptor binding. In particular the short B C loop appears to be non essential for receptor binding in most if not all family members. For this reason the B C loop is a preferred region for introducing cysteine substitutions in members of the GH supergene family. The A B loop the B C loop the C D loop and D E loop of interferon IL 10 like members of the GH superfamily also are preferred sites for introducing cysteine mutations. Amino acids proximal to helix A and distal to the final helix also tend not to be involved in receptor binding and also are preferred sites for introducing cysteine substitutions. Certain members of the GH family e.g. EPO IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 6 G CSF GM CSF TPO IL 10 IL 12 p35 IL 13 IL 15 and beta interferon contain N linked and O linked sugars. The glycosylation sites in the proteins occur almost exclusively in the loop regions and not in the alpha helical bundles. Because the loop regions generally are not involved in receptor binding and because they are sites for the covalent attachment of sugar groups they are preferred sites for introducing cysteine substitutions into the proteins. Amino acids that comprise the N and O linked glycosylation sites in the proteins are preferred sites for cysteine substitutions because these amino acids are surface exposed the natural protein can tolerate bulky sugar groups attached to the proteins at these sites and the glycosylation sites tend to be located away from the receptor binding sites.

Many additional members of the GH gene family are likely to be discovered in the future. New members of the GH supergene family can be identified through computer aided secondary and tertiary structure analyses of the predicted protein sequences. Members of the GH supergene family will possess four or five amphipathic helices joined by non helical amino acids the loop regions . The proteins may contain a hydrophobic signal sequence at their N terminus to promote secretion from the cell. Such later discovered members of the GH supergene family also are included within this invention.

The present invention provides rules for creating biologically active cysteine added variants of members of the GH supergene family. These rules can be applied to any existing or future member of the GH supergene family. The cysteine added variants will posses novel properties not shared by the naturally occurring proteins. Most importantly the cysteine added variants will possess the property that they can be covalently modified with cysteine reactive polymers or other types of cysteine reactive moieties to generate biologically active proteins with improved properties such as increased in vivo half life increased solubility and improved in vivo efficacy.

Specifically the present invention provides biologically active cysteine variants of members of the GH supergene family by substituting cysteine residues for non essential amino acids in the proteins. Preferably the cysteine residues are substituted for amino acids that comprise the loop regions for amino acids near the ends of the alpha helices and for amino acids proximal to the first amphipathic helix or distal to the final amphipathic helix of these proteins. Other preferred sites for adding cysteine residues are at the N terminus or C terminus of the proteins. Cysteine residues also can be introduced between two amino acids in the disclosed regions of the polypeptide chain. The present invention teaches that N and O linked glycosylation sites in the proteins are preferred sites for introducing cysteine substitutions either by substitution for amino acids that make up the sites or in the case of N linked sites introduction of cysteines therein. The glycosylation sites can be serine or threonine residues that are O glycosylated or asparagine residues that are N glycosylated. N linked glycosylation sites have the general structure asparagine X serine or threonine N X S T where X can be any amino acid. The asparagine residue the amino acid in the X position and the serine threonine residue of the N linked glycosylation site are preferred sites for creating biologically active cysteine added variants of these proteins Amino acids immediately surrounding or adjacent to the O linked and N linked glycosylation sites within about 10 residues on either side of the glycosylation site are preferred sites for introducing cysteine substitutions.

More generally certain of the rules for identifying preferred sites for creating biologically active cysteine added protein variants can be applied to any protein not just proteins that are members of the GH supergene family. Specifically preferred sites for creating biologically active cysteine variants of proteins other than IL 2 are O linked glycosylation sites. Amino acids immediately surrounding the O linked glycosylation site within about 10 residues on either side of the glycosylation site also are preferred sites. N linked glycosylation sites and the amino acid residues immediately adjacent on either side of the glycosylation site within about 10 residues of the N X S T site also are preferred sites for creating cysteine added protein variants. Amino acids that can be replaced with cysteine without significant loss of biological activity also are preferred sites for creating cysteine added protein variants. Such non essential amino acids can be identified by performing cysteine scanning mutagenesis on the target protein and measuring effects on biological activity. Cysteine scanning mutagenesis entails adding or substituting cysteine residues for individual amino acids in the polypeptide chain and determining the effect of the cysteine substitution on biological activity. Cysteine scanning mutagenesis is similar to alanine scanning mutagenesis Cunningham et al. 1992 except that target amino acids are individually replaced with cysteine rather than alanine residues.

Application of the rules to create cysteine added variants and conjugates of protein antagonists also is contemplated. Excess production of cytokines and growth factors has been implicated in the pathology of many inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis asthma allergies and wound scarring. Excess production of GH has been implicated as a cause of acromegaly. Certain growth factors and cytokines e.g. GH and IL 6 have been implicated in proliferation of particular cancers. Many of the growth factors and cytokines implicated in inflammation and cancer are members of the GH supergene family. There is considerable interest in developing protein antagonists of these molecules to treat these diseases. One strategy involves engineering the cytokines and growth factors so that they can bind to but not oligomerize receptors. This is accomplished by mutagenizing the second receptor binding site site II on the molecules. The resulting muteins are able to bind and occupy receptor sites but are incapable of activating intracellular signaling pathways. This strategy has been successfully applied to GH to make a GH antagonist Cunningham et al. 1992 . Similar strategies are being pursued to develop antagonists of other members of the GH supergene family such as IL 2 Zurawski et al. 1990 Zurawski and Zurawski 1992 IL 4 Kruse et al. 1992 IL 5 Tavernier et al. 1995 GM CSF Hercus et al. 1994 and EPO Matthews et al. 1996 . Since the preferred sites for adding cysteine residues to members of the GH supergene family described here lie outside of the receptor binding sites in these proteins and thus removed from any sites used to create protein antagonists the cysteine added variants described herein could be used to generate long acting versions of protein antagonists. As an example Cunningham et al. 1992 developed an in vitro GH antagonist by mutating a glycine residue amino acid 120 to an arginine. This glycine residue is a critical component of the second receptor binding site in GH when it is replaced with arginine GH cannot dimerize receptors. The glycine to arginine mutation at position 120 can be introduced into DNA sequences encoding the cysteine added variants of GH contemplated herein to create a cysteine added GH antagonist that can be conjugated with cysteine reactive PEGs or other types of cysteine reactive moieties. Similarly amino acid changes in other proteins that turn the proteins from agonists to antagonists could be incorporated into DNA sequences encoding cysteine added protein variants described herein. Considerable effort is being spent to identify amino acid changes that convert protein agonists to antagonists. Hercus et al. 1994 reported that substituting arginine or lysine for glutamic acid at position 21 in the mature GM CSF protein converts GM CSF from an agonist to an antagonist. Tavernier et al. 1995 reported that substituting glutamine for glutamic acid at position 13 of mature IL 5 creates an IL 5 antagonist. Prolactin antagonists can be created by substituting other amino acids in particular alanine aspartic acid and glutamic acid for serine 179 of prolactin Chen et al. 1998 . Receptor antagonists of erythropoietin can be created by substituting alanine for arginine 103 of erythopoietin Matthews et al. 1996 .

Experimental strategies similar to those described above can be used to create cysteine added variants both agonists and antagonists of members of the GH supergene family derived from various animals. This is possible because the primary amino acid sequences and structures of cytokines and growth factors are largely conserved between human and animal species. For this reason the rules disclosed herein for creating biologically active cysteine added variants of members of the GH supergene family will be useful for creating biologically active cysteine added variants of members of the GH supergene family of companion animals e.g. dogs cats horses and commercial animal e.g. cow sheep pig species. Conjugation of these cysteine added variants with cysteine reactive PEGs will create long acting versions of these proteins that will benefit the companion animal and commercial farm animal markets.

Proteins that are members of the GH supergene family hematopoietic cytokines are provided in Silvennoimem and Ihle 1996 . Silvennoimem and Ihle 1996 also provide information about the structure and expression of these proteins. DNA sequences encoded amino acids and in vitro and in vivo bioassays for the proteins described herein are described in Aggarwal and Gutterman 1992 1996 Aggarwal 1998 and Silvennoimem and Ihle 1996 . Bioassays for the proteins also are provided in catalogues of various commercial suppliers of these proteins such as R D Systems Inc. and Endogen Inc.

The cysteine variants of the present invention can be used for any of the known therapeutic uses of the native proteins in essentially the same forms and doses all well known in the art. By way of example therapeutic methods for increasing hematopoeisis in a patient and for accelerating recovery from neutropenia are described herein which use a cysteine variant of granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF according to the present invention. It is to be understood however that general discussion regarding modes of administration dosage and delivery of cysteine variants such as the GM CSF cysteine mutein is generally intended to apply to therapeutic methods using any of the cysteine variants described herein.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a method to protect an animal from a disease or condition comprising administering to the animal a composition comprising a granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF cysteine mutein as described herein. In one embodiment the cysteine mutein is prepared using methods described in PCT Application No. PCT US01 16088 PCT Publication No. WO 01 87925 A2 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method to prevent or treat the occurrence of neutropenia in an animal comprising administering to the animal a composition comprising a granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF cysteine mutein as described herein and in one embodiment as prepared using methods described in PCT Application No. PCT US01 16088 supra. The neutropenia to be prevented or treated using this method can include but is not limited to a neutropenia resulting from myelosuppressive chemotherapy b neutropenia associated with bone marrow transplantation c neutropenia associated with infection with the human immunodeficiency virus d neutropenia associated with burns surgery dilatation anemia and neonatal septicemia e severe chronic neutropenia or neutropenia associated with aplastic anemia and acute leukemia.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method to protect an animal from a disease or condition by stimulating proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic cells in the animal comprising administering to said animal a composition comprising a granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF cysteine mutein as described herein and in one embodiment as prepared using methods described in PCT Application No. PCT US01 16088 supra. Hematopoeitic cells include but are not limited to neutrophil monocyte eosinophil erythroid and megakaryocyte cell lineages. According to the present invention a cell of hematopoietic lineage is able to develop into cell types including but not limited to erythrocyte cells i.e. a red blood cell leukocyte cells i.e. a white blood cell or thrombocyte cells i.e. platelet cell . Leukocyte cells include but are not limited to granular leukocytes including eosinophils basophils neutrophils and mast cells as well as non granular leukocytes including megakaryocytes polymorphonuclear cells lymphocytes and monocytes i.e. macrophages . According to the present invention the term lineage refers to all of the stages of the development of a cell type from the earliest precursor cell to a completely mature cell i.e. a specialized cell . As used herein the terms develop differentiate and mature all refer to the progression of a cell from the stage of having the potential to differentiate into at least two different cellular lineages to becoming a specialized cell. Such terms can be used interchangeably for the purposes of the present application.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for stimulating the expansion and proliferation of peripheral blood progenitor cells in an animal comprising administering to the animal a composition comprising a granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF cysteine mutein as described herein and in one embodiment as prepared using methods described in PCT Application No. PCT US01 16088 supra. Reference to a progenitor cell or a precursor cell is reference to a group of cells capable of developing into a more mature cell. A precursor cell population can comprise cells that are totipotent cells that are pluripotent and cells that are stem cell lineage restricted i.e. cells capable of developing into less than all hematopoietic lineages or into for example only cells of erythroid lineage . Peripheral blood progenitor cells are cells that differentiate into various cells that circulate in the blood such as peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC .

Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor GM CSF is a glycoprotein having a molecular mass of 14.5 35 kDa that regulates the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells into mature cells such as mature neutrophils macrophages and eosinophils. GM CSF also stimulates the functional properties of mature monocytes neutrophils and eosinophils. Recombinant GM CSF is used to ameliorate neutropenia following myelosuppressive chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation. GM CSF also has been used to treat severe chronic neutropenia aplastic anemia and acute leukemia and to mobilize peripheral blood progenitor cells for transplantation and blood banking. GM CSF also may be useful for reversing neutropenia associated with the human immunodeficiency virus burns surgery dilatation anemia and neonatal septicemia. The ability of GM CSF to enhance the functional properties of monocytes neutrophils and eosinophils suggests that GM CSF may have utility as an anti neoplastic agent either alone or in combination with other anti neoplastic agents such as cytotoxic drugs chemotherapeutic agents polyclonal antibodies and monoclonal antibodies targeting tumor cells. The immunomodulatory properties of GM CSF also suggest that GM CSF may have utility as an adjuvant for vaccines against tumors and infectious agents.

GM CSF has a short circulating half life which necessitates daily subcutaneous injections for maximum effectiveness in humans. The present inventors have created novel GM CSF analogs i.e. the GM CSF cysteine muteins described herein with improved in vivo characteristics such as increased circulating half life and improved therapeutic efficacy through site specific chemical modification of the protein with cysteine reactive Polyethylene Glycol PEG reagents. These analogs were created by introducing a free cysteine residue i.e. a cysteine residue not involved in a disulfide bond into the protein using site directed mutagenesis. The free cysteine residue serves as the site for covalent modification of the protein with cysteine reactive PEG reagents. The present application teaches a variety of human GM CSF cysteine muteins that can be modified with cysteine reactive PEG reagents and retain biological activity and PCT Application No. PCT US01 16088 supra describes additional methods of preparing such muteins.

Human and rodent GM CSF proteins perform similar functions in their respective species and studies with rodent GM CSF proteins can be used to predict the function of human GM CSF in humans. Human and rodent GM CSF proteins share 50 60 amino acid identity but there is no cross species cross reactivity in terms of biological activity or receptor binding. It is possible to use the significant amino acid identity between human and rodent GM CSF proteins to construct murine GM CSF cysteine muteins that are analogues of human GM CSF cysteine muteins. The murine GM CSF cysteine analogs can be expressed purified and PEGylated using procedures similar to those described for human GM CSF cysteine variants herein and in PCT Application No. PCT US01 16088 supra. Biological activities of the PEGylated murine GM CSF cysteine muteins can be tested in rodent animal disease models and used to predict the effectiveness of PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs in humans. Toward that end the present inventors constructed the murine GM CSF T3C mutein which is an analog of the human GM CSF A3C mutein described herein. As shown in Example 26 the PEGylated murine T3C analog is effective at stimulating hematopoiesis in a mammal a rodent which indicates that PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine muteins will be effective at stimulating hematopoiesis in humans. Stimulating hematopoiesis will be useful for ameliorating disease indications in which hematopoiesis is impaired such as neutropenia see Example 27 . PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs can used to ameliorate neutropenia following myelosuppressive chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation based on the observed efficacy of GM CSF in these indications Cebon and Lieschke 1994 . Similarly PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs will be useful in treating diseases and conditions for which the therapeutic use of GM CSF is well established Armitage 1998 such as peripheral blood cell progenitor cell transplantation engraftment failure or delay after bone marrow transplantation and induction therapy for acute myelogenous leukemia.

Similarly based on the observed effects of GM CSF PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs also may be useful in treatment of a wide variety of cancers such as breast cancer lung cancer non Hodgkin s lymphoma and ovarian cancer by allowing chemotherapy dose intensification Cebon and Lieschke 1994 . Human GM CSF also can be used to treat severe chronic neutropenia for example in Felty syndrome Joseph et al 1991 or myelokathexis Hess et al. as well as aplastic anemia and acute leukemia. Human GM CSF and therefore GM CSF cysteine variants of the invention also may be useful for reversing neutropenia associated with the human immunodeficiency virus infection myelodysplastic syndrome and ideopathic neutropenia Kaczmarski et al 1993 . Neutropenia resulting from other causes such as burns surgery dilatation anemia and neonatal septicemia may also be treated by administration of PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs.

The ability of GM CSF to enhance the functional properties of monocytes neutrophils and eosinophils suggests that PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs may have utility as an anti neoplastic agent either alone or in combination with other anti neoplastic agents such as cytotoxic drugs chemotherapeutic agents polyclonal antibodies and monoclonal antibodies targeting tumor cells Armitage 1998 . GM CSF administration may be useful in the treatment of prostate cancer Small et al 1999 . GM CSF monotherapy also has been reported to reduce melanoma metastases Hoeller et al 2001 . GM CSF also may be useful in the treatment of melanoma when co administered with anti neoplastic agents Vaughan et al 2000 . The immunomodulatory properties of GM CSF also suggest that PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs may have utility as an adjuvant for vaccines against tumors and infectious agents Gaudernack and Gjertsen 1999 Warren and Weiner 2000 . For example adjuvant therapy using GM CSF may be useful in treatment of malignant melanoma Spitler et al 2000 following surgical resection. GM CSF co administration with a monoclonal antibody based immunogen may be useful in the treatment of metastatic coleorectal cancer Rucker et al. 1999 . The immunomodulatory properties of GM CSF indicate that PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs may also provide useful therapy for enhancing immune function in immunocompromised patients such as those infected with the HIV virus Armitage 1998 . The immunomodulatory properties of GM CSF indicate that PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs may also provide useful therapy against bacterial and fungal infections Armitage 1998 Jones 1999 .

GM CSF also may be used to accelerate wound healing of surgical incisions Jyung et al. 1994 and also to accelerate healing of refractory wounds or ulcers such as those of patients with diabetes Canturk et al 1999 and PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs may also be used in these indications.

In some diseases antagonists of GM CSF activity could provide therapeutic benefit. For example there is evidence that rheumatoid arthritis is promoted by GM CSF activity Campbell et al 1997 Bischof et al 2000 Campbell et al. 1998 Yang and Hamilton 2001 and an anti GM CSF antibody has been shown to reduce the severity of arthritis observed in a murine model Cook et al 2001 . Therefore PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs that contain one or more additional mutations that result in GM CSF antagonist activity could be used to treat arthritis. GM CSF activity is similarly implicated in the development and progression of multiple sclerosis McQualter et al. 2001 and PEGylated human GM CSF cysteine analogs that contain one or more additional mutations that result in GM CSF antagonist activity could be used to treat multiple sclerosis.

As discussed above various embodiments of the invention relate to methods of use of GM CSF cysteine muteins. In particular the present invention relates to the use of these muteins to protect an animal from a disease or condition that is amenable to treatment by the use of wild type GM CSF or an antagonist thereof or which might be particularly amenable to treatment using the GM CSF cysteine muteins of the present invention.

As used herein the phrase protected from a disease refers to reducing the symptoms of the disease reducing the occurrence of the disease and or reducing the severity of the disease. Protecting an animal can refer to the ability of a therapeutic composition of the present invention when administered to an animal to prevent a disease from occurring and or to cure or to alleviate disease symptoms signs or causes. As such to protect an animal from a disease includes both preventing disease occurrence prophylactic treatment and treating an animal that has a disease or that is experiencing initial symptoms of a disease therapeutic treatment . In particular protecting an animal from a disease is accomplished by inducing a beneficial or protective therapeutic response in the animal by administration of a GM CSF cysteine mutein of the present invention. The term disease refers to any deviation from the normal health of a mammal and includes a state when disease symptoms are present as well as conditions in which a deviation e.g. infection gene mutation genetic defect etc. has occurred but symptoms are not yet manifested.

Accordingly a GM CSF cysteine mutein of the present invention can be administered to regulate the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells into mature cells such as neutrophils macrophages and eosinophils. A GM CSF cysteine mutein can also be administered to stimulate the functional properties of mature monocytes neutrophils and eosinophils. A GM CSF cysteine mutein or antagonist thereof can be administered to an animal to prevent or ameliorate any disease or condition for which the use of the wild type protein or antagonist thereof respectively can be used. Such diseases and conditions are described in detail above. In one embodiment a GM CSF cysteine mutein of the present invention is used as an anti neoplastic agent either alone or in combination with other anti neoplastic agents such as cytotoxic drugs chemotherapeutic agents polyclonal antibodies and monoclonal antibodies targeting tumor cells. In yet another embodiment the GM CSF cysteine mutein of the present invention is used as an adjuvant for vaccines against tumors and infectious agents.

Cysteine muteins of the present invention are preferably administered in a composition. Compositions can include a cysteine mutein of the invention and any other suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as well as in some aspects additional components that may be useful in the treatment of a give disease or condition. According to the present invention a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and or pharmaceutically acceptable delivery vehicles which are suitable for use in administration of the composition to a suitable in vitro ex vivo or in vivo site. A suitable in vitro in vivo or ex vivo site is preferably any site where the cysteine mutein will provide a detectable effect as compared to in the absence of the mutein and includes a disease site or a site of cell types to be contacted with the mutein. Preferred pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are capable of maintaining the mutein of the present invention in a form that upon arrival of the mutein at the cell target in a culture or in patient the mutein is capable of interacting with its target e.g. hematopoeitic cell for GM CSF .

Suitable excipients of the present invention include excipients or formularies that transport or help transport but do not specifically target a composition to a cell or area also referred to herein as non targeting carriers . Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include but are not limited to water phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution dextrose solution serum containing solutions Hank s solution other aqueous physiologically balanced solutions oils esters and glycols. Aqueous carriers can contain suitable auxiliary substances required to approximate the physiological conditions of the recipient for example by enhancing chemical stability and isotonicity. Compositions of the present invention can be sterilized by conventional methods and or lyophilized.

One type of pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes a controlled release formulation that is capable of slowly releasing a composition of the present invention into a patient or culture. As used herein a controlled release formulation comprises a cysteine mutein of the present invention in a controlled release vehicle. Suitable controlled release vehicles include but are not limited to biocompatible polymers other polymeric matrices capsules microcapsules microparticles bolus preparations osmotic pumps diffusion devices liposomes lipospheres and transdermal delivery systems. Other carriers of the present invention include liquids that upon administration to a patient form a solid or a gel in situ. Preferred carriers are also biodegradable i.e. bioerodible . In the event that a cysteine mutein of the invention is administered as a recombinant nucleic acid molecule encoding the cysteine mutein e.g. gene therapy or genetic immunization suitable carriers include but are not limited to liposomes viral vectors or other carriers including ribozymes gold particles poly L lysine DNA molecular conjugates and artificial chromosomes. Natural lipid containing carriers include cells and cellular membranes. Artificial lipid containing carriers include liposomes and micelles.

A carrier of the present invention can be modified to target to a particular site in a patient thereby targeting and making use of a compound of the present invention at that site. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier which is capable of targeting can also be referred to herein as a delivery vehicle or targeting carrier . Suitable modifications include manipulating the chemical formula of the lipid portion of the delivery vehicle and or introducing into the vehicle a targeting agent capable of specifically targeting a delivery vehicle to a preferred site or target site for example a preferred cell type. A target site refers to a site in a patient to which one desires to deliver a composition. Suitable targeting compounds include ligands capable of selectively i.e. specifically binding another molecule at a particular site. Examples of such ligands include antibodies antigens receptors and receptor ligands. Manipulating the chemical formula of the lipid portion of the delivery vehicle can modulate the extracellular or intracellular targeting of the delivery vehicle. For example a chemical can be added to the lipid formula of a liposome that alters the charge of the lipid bilayer of the liposome so that the liposome fuses with particular cells having particular charge characteristics.

One delivery vehicle of the present invention is a liposome. A liposome is capable of remaining stable in an animal for a sufficient amount of time to deliver a nucleic acid molecule or protein described in the present invention to a preferred site in the animal. A liposome according to the present invention comprises a lipid composition that is capable of delivering a nucleic acid molecule or protein to a particular or selected site in a patient. A liposome according to the present invention comprises a lipid composition that is capable of fusing with the plasma membrane of the targeted cell to deliver a nucleic acid molecule or protein into a cell. Suitable liposomes for use with the present invention include any liposome. Preferred liposomes of the present invention include those liposomes commonly used in for example gene delivery methods known to those of skill in the art. More preferred liposomes comprise liposomes having a polycationic lipid composition and or liposomes having a cholesterol backbone conjugated to polyethylene glycol. Complexing a liposome with a nucleic acid molecule or protein of the present invention can be achieved using methods standard in the art.

Another type of delivery vehicle when the cysteine mutein is administered as a nucleic acid encoding the mutein comprises a viral vector. A viral vector includes an isolated nucleic acid molecule in which the nucleic acid molecules are packaged in a viral coat that allows entrance of DNA into a cell. A number of viral vectors can be used including but not limited to those based on alphaviruses poxviruses adenoviruses herpesviruses lentiviruses adeno associated viruses and retroviruses.

According to the present invention an effective administration protocol i.e. administering a therapeutic composition in an effective manner comprises suitable dose parameters and modes of administration that result in the desired effect in the patient e.g. stimulation of proliferation and or differentiation of neutrophils preferably so that the patient is protected from the disease e.g. by disease prevention or by alleviating one or more symptoms of ongoing disease . Effective dose parameters can be determined using methods standard in the art for a particular disease. Such methods include for example determination of survival rates side effects i.e. toxicity and progression or regression of disease.

In accordance with the present invention a suitable single dose size is a dose that results in the desired therapeutic effect in the patient depending o the cysteine mutein that is administered or in the amelioration of at least one symptom of a condition in the patient when administered one or more times over a suitable time period. Doses can vary depending upon the disease being treated. One of skill in the art can readily determine appropriate single dose sizes for a given patient based on the size of a patient and the route of administration.

In one aspect of the invention a suitable single dose of a therapeutic composition of the present invention is an amount that when administered by any route of administration provides a therapeutic effect in the patient as described above as compared to a patient which has not been administered with the therapeutic composition of the present invention i.e. a control patient as compared to the patient prior to administration of the composition or as compared to a standard established for the particular disease patient type and composition.

In one aspect of the invention an appropriate single dose of a cysteine mutein of the present invention is at least about 0.01 g per kg of the animal to which the mutein is administered and in other aspects at least about 0.1 g kg at least about 0.2 g kg at least about 0.5 g kg at least about 1 g kg at least about 5 g kg at least about 10 g kg at least about 25 g kg at least about 50 g kg at least about 75 g kg at least about 100 g kg at least about 200 g kg at least about 300 g kg at least about 400 g kg at least about 500 g kg at least about 750 g kg at least about 1 mg kg or at least about 5 mg kg. In one embodiment a preferred single dose of a GM CSF cysteine mutein of the present invention is at least about 0.1 g kg and more preferably from about 25 to about 300 g kg.

As discussed above a therapeutic composition of the present invention is administered to a patient in a manner effective to deliver the composition to a cell a tissue and or systemically to the patient whereby the desired result is achieved as a result of the administration of the composition. Suitable administration protocols include any in vivo or ex vivo administration protocol. The preferred routes of administration will be apparent to those of skill in the art depending on the type of condition to be prevented or treated whether the composition is nucleic acid based or protein based and or the target cell tissue. For proteins or nucleic acid molecules preferred methods of in vivo administration include but are not limited to intravenous administration intraperitoneal administration intramuscular administration intranodal administration intracoronary administration intraarterial administration e.g. into a carotid artery subcutaneous administration transdermal delivery intratracheal administration subcutaneous administration intraarticular administration intraventricular administration inhalation e.g. aerosol intracranial intraspinal intraocular intranasal oral bronchial rectal topical vaginal urethral pulmonary administration impregnation of a catheter and direct injection into a tissue. Routes useful for deliver to mucosal tissues include bronchial intradermal intramuscular intranasal other inhalatory rectal subcutaneous topical transdermal vaginal and urethral routes. Combinations of routes of delivery can be used and in some instances may enhance the therapeutic effects of the composition. Particularly preferred routes of delivery include subcutaneous and intravenous delivery.

Ex vivo administration refers to performing part of the regulatory step outside of the patient such as administering a composition of the present invention to a population of cells removed from a patient under conditions such that the composition contacts and or enters the cell and returning the cells to the patient. Ex vivo methods are particularly suitable when the target cell type can easily be removed from and returned to the patient.

Many of the above described routes of administration including intravenous intraperitoneal intradermal and intramuscular administrations can be performed using methods standard in the art. Aerosol inhalation delivery can also be performed using methods standard in the art see for example Stribling et al. 189 11277 11281 1992 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Oral delivery can be performed by complexing a therapeutic composition of the present invention to a carrier capable of withstanding degradation by digestive enzymes in the gut of an animal Examples of such carriers include plastic capsules or tablets such as those known in the art.

One method of local administration is by direct injection. Direct injection techniques are particularly useful for administering a composition to a cell or tissue that is accessible by surgery and particularly on or near the surface of the body. Administration of a composition locally within the area of a target cell refers to injecting the composition centimeters and preferably millimeters from the target cell or tissue.

Various methods of administration and delivery vehicles disclosed herein have been shown to be effective for delivery of a nucleic acid molecule to a target cell whereby the nucleic acid molecule transfected the cell and was expressed. In many studies successful delivery and expression of a heterologous gene was achieved in preferred cell types and or using preferred delivery vehicles and routes of administration of the present invention. All of the publications discussed below and elsewhere herein with regard to gene delivery and delivery vehicles are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

For example using liposome delivery U.S. Pat. No. 5 705 151 issued Jan. 6 1998 to Dow et al. demonstrated the successful in vivo intravenous delivery of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a superantigen and a nucleic acid molecule encoding a cytokine in a cationic liposome delivery vehicle whereby the encoded proteins were expressed in tissues of the animal and particularly in pulmonary tissues. In addition Liu et al. 15 167 1997 demonstrated that intravenous delivery of cholesterol containing cationic liposomes containing genes preferentially targets pulmonary tissues and effectively mediates transfer and expression of the genes in vivo. Several publications by Dzau and collaborators demonstrate the successful in vivo delivery and expression of a gene into cells of the heart including cardiac myocytes and fibroblasts and vascular smooth muscle cells using both naked DNA and Hemagglutinating virus of Japan liposome delivery administered by both incubation within the pericardium and infusion into a coronary artery intracoronary delivery See for example Aoki et al. 199729 949 959 Kaneda et al. 1997811 299 308 and von der Leyen et al. 199592 1137 1141 .

Delivery of numerous nucleic acid sequences has been accomplished by administration of viral vectors encoding the nucleic acid sequences. Using such vectors successful delivery and expression has been achieved using ex vivo delivery See of many examples retroviral vector Blaese et al. 1995270 475 480 Bordignon et al. 1995270 470 475 nasal administration CFTR adenovirus associated vector intracoronary administration adenoviral vector and Hemagglutinating virus of Japan see above intravenous administration adeno associated viral vector Koeberl et al. 199794 1426 1431 . A publication by Maurice et al. 1999104 21 29 demonstrated that an adenoviral vector encoding a 2 adrenergic receptor administered by intracoronary delivery resulted in diffuse multichamber myocardial expression of the gene in vivo and subsequent significant increases in hemodynamic function and other improved physiological parameters. Levine et al. describe in vitro ex vivo and in vivo delivery and expression of a gene to human adipocytes and rabbit adipocytes using an adenoviral vector and direct injection of the constructs into adipose tissue Levine et al. 199844 569 572 .

In the area of neuronal gene delivery multiple successful in vivo gene transfers have been reported. Millecamps et al. reported the targeting of adenoviral vectors to neurons using neuron restrictive enhancer elements placed upstream of the promoter for the transgene phosphoglycerate promoter . Such vectors were administered to mice and rats intramuscularly and intracerebrally respectively resulting in successful neuronal specific transfection and expression of the transgene in vivo Millecamps et al. 199917 865 869 . As discussed above Bennett et al. reported the use of adeno associated viral vector to deliver and express a gene by subretinal injection in the neural retina in vivo for greater than 1 year Bennett 1999 ibid. .

Gene delivery to synovial lining cells and articular joints has had similar successes. Oligino and colleagues report the use of a herpes simplex viral vector which is deficient for the immediate early genes ICP4 22 and 27 to deliver and express two different receptors in synovial lining cells in vivo Oligino et al. 19996 1713 1720 . The herpes vectors were administered by intraarticular injection. Kuboki et al. used adenoviral vector mediated gene transfer and intraarticular injection to successfully and specifically express a gene in the temporomandibular joints of guinea pigs in vivo Kuboki et al. 199944 701 709 . Apparailly and colleagues systemically administered adenoviral vectors encoding IL 10 to mice and demonstrated successful expression of the gene product and profound therapeutic effects in the treatment of experimentally induced arthritis Apparailly et al. 1998160 5213 5220 . In another study murine leukemia virus based retroviral vector was used to deliver by intraarticular injection and express a human growth hormone gene both ex vivo and in vivo Ghivizzani et al. 19974 977 982 . This study showed that expression by in vivo gene transfer was at least equivalent to that of the ex vivo gene transfer. As discussed above Sawchuk et al. has reported successful in vivo adenoviral vector delivery of a gene by intraarticular injection and prolonged expression of the gene in the synovium by pretreatment of the joint with anti T cell receptor monoclonal antibody Sawchuk et al. 1996 ibid. Finally it is noted that ex vivo gene transfer of human interleukin 1 receptor antagonist using a retrovirus has produced high level intraarticular expression and therapeutic efficacy in treatment of arthritis and is now entering FDA approved human gene therapy trials Evans and Robbins 19968 230 234 . Therefore the state of the art in gene therapy has led the FDA to consider human gene therapy an appropriate strategy for the treatment of at least arthritis. Taken together all of the above studies in gene therapy indicate that delivery and expression of a recombinant nucleic acid molecule according to the present invention is feasible.

Another method of delivery of recombinant molecules is in a non targeting carrier e.g. as naked DNA molecules such as is taught for example in Wolff et al. 1990247 1465 1468 . Such recombinant nucleic acid molecules are typically injected by direct or intramuscular administration. Recombinant nucleic acid molecules to be administered by naked DNA administration include an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the present invention and preferably includes a recombinant molecule of the present invention that preferably is replication or otherwise amplification competent. A naked nucleic acid reagent of the present invention can comprise one or more nucleic acid molecules of the present invention including a dicistronic recombinant molecule. Naked nucleic acid delivery can include intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal transdermal intranasal and oral routes of administration with direct injection into the target tissue being most preferred. A preferred single dose of a naked nucleic acid vaccine ranges from about 1 nanogram ng to about 100 g depending on the route of administration and or method of delivery as can be determined by those skilled in the art. Suitable delivery methods include for example by injection as drops aerosolized and or topically. In one embodiment pure DNA constructs cover the surface of gold particles 1 to 3 m in diameter and are propelled into skin cells or muscle with a gene gun. 

In the method of the present invention compositions can be administered to any animal and preferably to any member of the Vertebrate class Mammalia including without limitation primates rodents livestock and domestic pets. Livestock include mammals to be consumed or that produce useful products e.g. sheep for wool production . Preferred mammals to protect include humans dogs cats mice rats sheep cattle horses and pigs with humans being particularly preferred.

The following examples are provided to demonstrate how the rules described herein can be used to create cysteine added variants of GH erythropoietin alpha interferon beta interferon G CSF GM CSF and other members of the GH supergene family. The examples also demonstrate the therapeutic uses of cysteine variants of the present invention. The examples are not intended to be limiting but only exemplary of specific embodiments of the invention.

This example discloses certain amino acids in GH that are non essential for biological activity and which when mutated to cysteine residues will not alter the normal disulfide binding pattern and overall conformation of the molecule. These amino acids are located at the N terminal end of the A B loop amino acids 34 52 of the mature protein sequence SEQ ID NO 1 Martial et al 1979 Goeddel et al 1979 the B C loop amino acids 97 105 in the mature protein sequence and the C D loop amino acids 130 153 in the mature protein sequence . Also identified as preferred sites for introducing cysteine residues are the first three or last three amino acids in the A B C and D helices and the amino acids proximal to helix A amino acids 1 5 and distal to helix D amino acids 184 191 . Helix A encompasses amino acids 6 33 helix B encompasses amino acids 75 96 helix C encompasses amino acids 106 129 and helix D encompasses amino acids 154 183. The entire A B loop encompasses amino acids 34 74.

DNA sequences encoding wild type GH can be amplified using the polymerase chain reaction technique from commercially available single stranded cDNA prepared from human pituitaries ClonTech San Diego Calif. or assembled using overlapping oligonucleotides. Specific mutations can be introduced into the GH sequence using a variety of procedures such as phage techniques Kunkel et al 1987 PCR mutagenesis techniques Innis et al 1990 White 1993 mutagenesis kits such as those sold by Stratagene Quick Change Mutagenesis kit San Diego Calif. or Promega Gene Editor Kit Madison Wis. .

Cysteine substitutions can be introduced into any of the amino acids comprising the B C loop C D loop and N terminal end of the A B loop or into the first three amino acids of the alpha helical regions that adjoin these regions. or in the region proximal to helix A or distal to helix D. Preferred sites for introduction of cysteine residues are F1 T3 P5 E33 A34 K38 E39 Q40 S43 Q46 N47 P48 Q49 T50 S51 S55 T60 A98 N99 S100 G104 A105 S106 E129 D130 G131 S132 P133 T135 G136 Q137 K140 Q141 T142 S144 K145 D147 T148 N149 S150 H151 N152 D153 S184 E186 G187 S188 and G190. Cysteine residues also can be introduced at the beginning of the mature protein i.e. proximal to the F1 amino acid or following the last amino acid in the mature protein i.e. following F191. If desirable two or more such mutations can be readily combined in the same protein either by in vitro DNA recombination of cloned mutant genes and or sequential construction of individual desired mutations.

The human GH gene was amplified from human pituitary single stranded cDNA commercially available from CLONTECH Inc. Palo Alto Calif. using the polymerase chain reaction PCR technique and primers BB1 and BB2. The sequence of BB1 is 5 GGGGGTCGACCATATGTTCCCAACCATTCCCTTATCCAG 3 SEQ ID NO 24 . The sequence of BB2 is 5 GGGGGATCCTCACTAGAAGCCACAGCTGCCCTC 3 SEQ ID NO 25 . Primer BB1 was designed to encode an initiator methionine preceding the first amino acid of mature GH phenylalanine and SalI and NdeI sites for cloning purposes. The reverse primer BB2 contains a BamHI site for cloning purposes. The PCR 100 microliter reactions contained 20 pmoles of each oligonucleotide primer 1 PCR buffer Perkin Elmer buffer containing MgCl 200 micromolar concentration of each of the four nucleotides dA dC dG and dT 2 ng of single stranded cDNA 2.5 units of Taq polymerase Perkin Elmer and 2.5 units of Pfu polymerase Stratagene Inc . The PCR reaction conditions were 96 C. for 3 minutes 35 cycles of 95 C. 1 minute 63 C. for 30 seconds 72 C. for 1 minute followed by 10 minutes at 72 C. The thermocycler employed was the Amplitron II Thermal Cycler Thermolyne . The approximate 600 bp PCR product was digested with SalI and BamHI gel purified and cloned into similarly digested plasmid pUC19 commercially available from New England BioLabs Beverly Mass. . The ligation mixture was transformed into strain DH5alpha and transformants selected on LB plates containing ampicillin. Several colonies were grown overnight in LB media and plasmid DNA isolated using miniplasmid DNA isolation kits purchased from Qiagen Inc Valencia Calif. . Clone LB6 was determined to have the correct DNA sequence.

For expression in clone LB6 was digested with NdeI and EcoRI the approximate 600 bp fragment gel purified and cloned into plasmid pCYB1 commercially available from New England BioLabs Beverly Mass. that had been digested with the same enzymes and phosphatased. The ligation mixture was transformed into DH5alpha and transformants selected on LB ampicillin plates. Plasmid DNA was isolated from several transformants and screened by digestion with NdeI and EcoRI. A correct clone was identified and named pCYB1 wtGH pBBT120 . This plasmid was transformed into strains JM109 or W3110 available from New England BioLabs and the American Type Culture Collection .

Wild type GH clone LB6 pUC19 wild type GH was used as the template to construct a GH clone containing the STII signal sequence Picken et al. 1983 . Because of its length the STII sequence was added in two sequential PCR reactions. The first reaction used forward primer BB12 and reverse primer BB10. BB10 has the sequence 5 CGCGGATCCGATTAGAATCCACAGCTCCCCTC 3 SEQ ID NO 28 .

The PCR reactions were as described for amplifying wild type GH except that approximately 4 ng of plasmid LB6 was used as the template rather than single stranded cDNA and the PCR conditions were 96 C. for 3 minutes 30 cycles of 95 C. for 1 minute 63 C. for 30 seconds 72 C. for 1 minute followed by 72 C. for 10 minutes. The approximate 630 bp PCR product was gel purified using the Qiaex II Gel Extraction Kit Qiagen Inc diluted 50 fold in water and 2 microliters used as template for the second PCR reaction. The second PCR reaction used reverse primer BB10 and forward primer BB11. BB11 has the sequence 

Primer BB11 contains XbaI and NdeI sites for cloning purposes. PCR conditions were as described for the first reaction. The approximate 660 bp PCR product was digested with XbaI and BamHI gel purified and cloned into similarly cut plasmid pcDNA3.1 Invitrogen Inc. Carlsbad Calif. . Clone pcDNA3.1 stII GH 5C or 5C was determined to have the correct DNA sequence.

Clone 5C was cleaved with NdeI and BamHI and cloned into similarly cut pBBT108 a derivative of pUC19 which lacks a Pst I site this plasmid is described below . A clone with the correct insert was identified following digestion with these enzymes. This clone designated pBBT111 was digested with NdeI and SalI the 660 bp fragment containing the stII GH fusion gene was gel purified and cloned into the plasmid expression vector pCYB1 New England BioLabs that had been digested with the same enzymes and phosphatased. A recombinant plasmid containing the stII GH insertion was identified by restriction endonuclease digestions. One such isolate was chosen for further studies and was designated pBBT114. This plasmid was transformed into strains JM109 or W3110 available from New England BioLabs and the American Type Culture Collection .

Wild type GH clone LB6 pUC19 wild type GH was used as the template to construct a GH clone containing the ompA signal sequence Movva et al 1980 . Because of its length the ompA sequence was added in two sequential PCR reactions. The first reaction used forward primer BB7 

The PCR reactions were as described for amplifying wild type GH except that approximately 4 ng of plasmid LB6 was used as the template rather than single stranded cDNA and the PCR conditions were 96 C. for 3 minutes 30 cycles of 95 C. for 1 minute 63 C. for 30 seconds 72 C. for 1 minute followed by 72 C. for 10 minutes. The approximate 630 bp PCR product was gel purified using the Qiaex II Gel Extraction Kit Qiagen Inc diluted 50 fold in water and 2 microliters used as template for the second PCR reaction. The second PCR reaction used reverse primer BB10 and forward PrimerBB6 

PCR conditions were as described for the first reaction. The approximate 660 bp PCR product was gel purified digested with Sal I and Bam H1 and cloned into pUC19 New England BioLabs which was cut with Sal I and Bam H1 or pcDNA3.1 Invitrogen which had been cut by Xho I and Bam H1 Sal I and Xho I produce compatible single stranded overhangs . When several clones were sequenced it was discovered that all pUC19 clones 8 8 contained errors in the region of the ompA sequence. Only one pcDNA3.1 clone was sequenced and it contained a sequence ambiguity in the ompA region. In order to generate a correct ompA GH fusion gene segments of two sequenced clones which contained different errors separated by a convenient restriction site were recombined and cloned into the pUC19 derivative that lacks the Pst I site see pBBT108 described below . The resulting plasmid termed pBBT112 carries the ompA GH fusion gene cloned as an Nde I Bam H1 fragment into these same sites in pBBT108. This plasmid is designated pBBT112 and is used in PCR based site specific mutagenesis of GH as described below.

To facilitate mutagenesis of the cloned GH gene for construction of selected cysteine substitution and insertion mutations a derivative of the plasmid pUC19 New England BioLabs lacking a Pst I site was constructed as follows. pUC19 plasmid DNA was digested with Pst I and subsequently treated at 75 deg. C. with PFU DNA Polymerase Stratagene using the vendor supplied reaction buffer supplemented with 200 uM dNTPs. Under these conditions the polymerase will digest the 3 single stranded overhang created by Pst I digestion but will not digest into the double stranded region. The net result will be the deletion of the 4 single stranded bases which comprise the middle four bases of the Pst I recognition site. The resulting molecule has double stranded i.e. blunt ends. Following these enzymatic reactions the linear monomer was gel purified using the Qiaex II Gel Extraction Kit Qiagen Inc . This purified DNA was treated with T4 DNA Ligase New England BioLabs according to the vendor protocols digested with Pst I and used to transform DH5alpha. Transformants were picked and analyzed by restriction digestion with Pst I and Bam H1. One of the transformants which was not cleaved by Pst I but was cleaved at the nearby Bam H1 site was picked and designated pBBT108.

GH muteins were generally constructed using site directed PCR based mutagenesis as described in PCR Protocols Current Methods and Applications edited by B. A. White 1993 Humana Press Inc. Totowa N.J. and PCR Protocols A Guide to Methods and Applications edited by Innis M. A. et al 1990 Academic Press Inc San Diego Calif. Typically PCR primer oligonucleotides are designed to incorporate nucleotide changes to the coding sequence of GH that result in substitution of a cysteine residue for an amino acid at a specific position within the protein. Such mutagenic oligonucleotide primers can also be designed to incorporate an additional cysteine residue at the carboxy terminus or amino terminus of the coding sequence of GH. In this latter case one or more additional amino acid residues could also be incorporated at the amino terminal and or carboxy terminal to the added cysteine residue if that were desirable. Moreover oligonucleotides can be designed to incorporate cysteine residues as insertion mutations at specific positions within the GH coding sequence if that were desirable. Again one or more additional amino acids could be inserted along with the cysteine residue and these amino acids could be positioned at the amino terminal and or carboxy terminal to the cysteine residue.

The cysteine substitution mutation T135C was constructed as follows. The mutagenic reverse oligonucleotide BB28 

The substitution mutation S132C was constructed using the protocol described above for T135C with the following differences mutagenic reverse oligonucleotide BB29 5 CTGCTTGAAGATCTGCCCAGTCCGGGGGCAGCCATCTTC3 SEQ ID NO 35 was used instead of BB28 and the PCR reaction with annealing temperature of 50 deg C. was used for cloning. One of two clones sequenced was found to have the correct sequence.

The substitution mutation T148C was constructed using an analogous protocol but employing a different cloning strategy. The mutagenic forward oligonucleotide BB30 5 GGGCAGATCTTCAAGCAGACCTACAGCAAGTTCGACTGCAACTCACACAAC3 SEQ ID NO 36 was used in PCR with the non mutagenic reverse primer BB33 5 CGCGGTACCCGGGATCCGATTAGAATCCACAGCT3 SEQ ID NO 37 which anneals to the most 3 end of the GH coding sequence and spans the Bam H1 site immediately downstream. PCR was performed as described above with the exception that the annealing temperatures used were 46 51 and 56 deg C. Following PCR and gel analysis as described above the 46 and 51 deg C. reactions were pooled for cloning. These were digested with Bam H1 and Bgl II gel purified and cloned into pBBT111 which had been digested with Bam H1 and Bgl II treated with Calf intestinal Alkaline Phosphatase Promega according to the vendor protocols and gel purified. Transformants from this ligation were analyzed by digestion with Bam H1 and Bgl II to identify clones in which the 188 bp Bam H1 Bgl II mutagenic PCR fragment was cloned in the proper orientation. Because Bam H1 and Bgl II generate compatible ends this cloning step is not orientation specific. Five of six clones tested were shown to be correctly oriented. One of these was sequenced and was shown to contain the desired T148C mutation. The sequence of the remainder of the 188 bp Bam H1 Bgl II mutagenic PCR fragment in this clone was confirmed as correct.

The construction of the substitution mutation S144C was identical to the construction of T148C with the following exceptions. Mutagenic forward oligonucleotide BB31 5 GGGCAGATCTTCAAGCAGACCTACTGCAAGTTCGAC3 SEQ ID NO 38 was used instead of BB30. Two of six clones tested were shown to be correctly oriented. One of these was sequenced and was shown to contain the desired S144C mutation. The sequence of the remainder of the 188 bp Bam H1 Bgl II mutagenic PCR fragment in this clone was confirmed as correct.

A mutation was also constructed that added a cysteine residue to the natural carboxy terminus of GH. The construction of this mutation termed stp192C was similar to that of T148C but employed different oligonucleotide primers. The reverse mutagenic oligonucleotide 

Analogous PCR mutagenesis procedures can be used to generate other cysteine mutations. The choice of sequences for mutagenic oligonucleotides will be dictated by the position where the desired cysteine residue is to be placed and the propinquity of useful restriction endonuclease sites. Generally it is desirable to place the mutation i.e. the mismatched segment near the middle of the oligonucleotide to enhance the annealing of the oligonucleotide to the template. Appropriate annealing temperatures for any oligonucleotide can be determined empirically. It is also desirable for the mutagenic oligonucleotide to span a unique restriction site so that the PCR product can be cleaved to generate a fragment that can be readily cloned into a suitable vector e.g. one that can be used to express the mutein or provides convenient restriction sites for excising the mutated gene and readily cloning it into such an expression vector. Sometimes mutation sites and restriction sites are separated by distances that are greater than that which is desirable for synthesis of synthetic oligonucleotides it is generally desirable to keep such oligonucleotides under 80 bases in length and lengths of 30 40 bases are more preferable.

In instances where this is not possible genes targeted for mutagenesis could be re engineered or re synthesized to incorporate restriction sites at appropriate positions. Alternatively variations of PCR mutagenesis protocols employed above such as the so called Megaprimer Method Barik S. pp. 277 286 in Methods in Molecular Biology Vol. 15 PCR Protocols Current Methods and Applications edited by B. A. White 1993 Humana Press Inc. Totowa N.J. or Gene Splicing by Overlap Extension Horton R. M. pp. 251 261 in Methods in Molecular Biology Vol. 15 PCR Protocols Current Methods and Applications edited by B. A. White 1993 Humana Press Inc. Totowa N.J. can also be employed to construct such mutations.

To express GH in pBBT120 GH gene with no leader sequence cloned into the tac expression vector pCYB1 and pBBT114 GH gene with stII leader sequence cloned into the tac expression vector pCYB1 were transformed into strains JM109 and W3110. The parental vector pCYB1 was also transformed into JM109 and W3110.

For expression strains were grown overnight at 37 C. in Luria Broth LB Sambrook et al 1989 containing 100 g ml ampicillin. These saturated overnight cultures were diluted to 0.03 OD at Ain LB containing 100 g ml ampicillin and incubated at 37 C. in shake flasks in rotary shaker typically at 250 300 rpm. ODs were monitored and IPTG was added to a final concentration of 0.5 mM when culture ODs reached 0.25 0.5 typically between 0.3 and 0.4. Cultures were sampled typically at 1 3 5 and 16 h post induction. The 16 h time points represented overnight incubation of the cultures and exact times varied from 15 20 h. Samples of induced and uninduced cultures were pelleted by centrifugation resuspended in 1 sample buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 6.8 2 sodium lauryl sulfate 10 glycerol 0.1 bromphenol blue with the addition of 1 mercaptoethanol when desirable. Samples were boiled for 10 minutes or heated to 95 C. for 10 minutes. Samples were cooled to room temperature before being loaded onto SDS polyacrylamide gels or were stored at 20 C. if not run immediately. Samples were run on precast 15 polyacrylamide Ready Gels Bio Rad Hercules Calif. using a Ready Gel Cell electrophoresis apparatus Bio Rad according to the vendor protocols. Typically gels were run at 200 volts for 35 45 minutes. Gels were stained with Coomassie Blue or were analyzed by Western Blot following electro blotting. Coomassie staining of whole cell lysates from strains BOB 129 BOB 133 BOB 121 and BOB 132 showed a band of 22 kD that co migrated with purified recombinant human GH standard purchased from Research Diagnostics Inc Flanders N.J. . That band was most prominent in induced cultures following overnight induction. However a band was also observed at that molecular weight in uninduced cultures of these same strains and could also be observed with and without induction in the BOB 119 and BOB 130 control strains that carried the expression vector pCYB1 lacking the GH gene. To clarify this observation Western Blot analyses were performed on whole cell lysates of induced cultures of strains BOB119 BOB130 BOB129 BOB133 BOB121 and BOB132. Western blots were performed with polyclonal rabbit anti human GH antiserum purchased from United States Biological catalogue G 9000 11 Swampscott Mass. This primary antibody was used at a 1 5000 dilution and its binding was detected with goat anti rabbit IgG Fc conjugated to alkaline phosphatase product 31341 purchased from Pierce Rockford Ill. . This secondary antibody was used at a 1 10 0000 dilution Alkaline phosphatase activity was detected using the ImmunoPure Fast Red TR AS MX Substrate Kit Pierce Rockford Ill. according to the vendor protocols. The Western Blots clearly demonstrated presence of GH in lysates of induced cultures of BOB129 BOB133 BOB121 and BOB132 at both 3 and 16 h post induction. In the induced culture of control strains BOB119 and BOB130 no GH was detected by Western blot at 3 or 16 h post induction time points.

In these preliminary experiments the highest yields of GH were obtained from BOB132 W3110 pBBT114 in which the GH gene is fused downstream of the stII secretion signal sequence. This strain was tested further to determine if the GH protein was secreted to the periplasm as would be expected. An induced culture of BOB132 was prepared as described above and subjected to osmotic shock according to the procedure of Koshland and Botstein Cell 20 1980 pp. 749 760 . This procedure ruptures the outer membrane and releases the contents of the periplasm into the surrounding medium. Subsequent centrifugation separates the periplasmic contents present in the supernatant from the remainder of the cell associated components. In this experiment the bulk of the GH synthesized by BOB132 was found to be localized to the periplasm. This result is consistent with the finding that the bulk of the total GH is also indistinguishable in size from the purified GH standard which indicated that the stII signal sequence had been removed. This is indicative of secretion. A larger scale 500 ml culture of BOB132 was also induced cultured overnight and subjected to osmotic shock according to the procedure described by Hsiung et al 1986 Bio Technology 4 pp. 991 995 . Gel analysis again demonstrated that the bulk of the GH produced was soluble periplasmic and indistinguishable in size from the GH standard. This material could also be quantitatively bound to and eluted from a Q Sepharose column using conditions very similar to those described for recombinant human GH by Becker and Hsiung 1986 FEBS Lett 204 pp 145 150 .

The human GH receptor was cloned by PCR using forward primer BB3 and reverse primer BB4. BB3 has the sequence 

The PCR fragment was simultaneously cloned into pcDNA3.1 Invitrogen . The approximate 1.9 kb PCR product was digested with BamHI and SalI and ligated into the BamHI and XhoI cloning sites of pcDNA3.1 . Only infrequent transformants from this ligation contained the cloned GH receptor cDNA and all of those were found to contain deletions of segments of the receptor coding sequence. One of these clones was sequenced and found to contain a deletion of 135 bp within the GH receptor coding sequence the sequence of the rest of the gene was in agreement with that reported by Leung et at 1987 .

The rabbit GH receptor was cloned by PCR using forward primer BB3 described above and reverse primer BB36. BB36 has the sequence 5 CCCCGTCGACTCTAGAGCCATTAGATACAAAGCTCTTGGG3 SEQ ID NO 41 and contains XbaI and Sal I restriction sites for cloning purposes. Rabbit liver poly A mRNA was purchased from CLONTECH Inc. and used as the substrate in first strand synthesis of single stranded cDNA to produce template for PCR amplification. First strand synthesis of single stranded cDNA was accomplished using a 1st Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit for RT PCR AMV kit from Boehringer Mannheim Corp Indianapolis Ind. according to the vendor protocols. Parallel first strand cDNA syntheses were performed using random hexamers or BB36 as the primer. Subsequent PCR reactions with the products of the first strand syntheses as templates were carried out with primers BB3 and BB36 according to the 1st Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit for RT PCR AMV kit protocol and using 2.5 units of Amplitac DNA Polymerase Perkin Elmer and 0.625 units of Pfu DNA Polymerase Stratagene . The PCR reaction conditions were 96 C. for 3 minutes 35 cycles of 95 C. 1 minute 58 C. for 30 seconds 72 C. for 2 minutes followed by 10 minutes at 72 C. The thermocycler employed was the Amplitron II Thermal Cycler Thermolyne . The expected 1.9 kb PCR product was observed in PCR reactions using random hexamer primed or BB36 primed cDNA as template. The random hexamer primed cDNA was used in subsequent cloning experiments. It was digested with Bam H1 and XbaI and run out over a 1.2 agarose gel. This digest generates two fragments 365 bp and 1600 bp because the rabbit GH receptor gene contains an internal Bam H1 site. Both fragments were gel purified. Initially the 1600 bp Bam H1 XbaI fragment was cloned into pcDNA3.1 which had been digested with these same two enzymes. These clones were readily obtained at reasonable frequencies and showed no evidence of deletions as determined by restriction digests and subsequent sequencing. To generate a full length clone one of the plasmids containing the 1600 bp Bam H1 Xba I fragment pcDNA3.1 rab ghr 2A was digested with Bam H1 treated with Calf Intestinal Alkaline Phosphatase Promega according to the vendor protocols gel purified and ligated with the gel purified 365 bp Bam H1 fragment that contains the 5 portion of the rabbit GH receptor gene. Transformants from this ligation were picked and analyzed by restriction digestion and PCR to confirm the presence of the 365 bp fragment and to determine its orientation relative to the distal segment of the rabbit GH receptor gene. Three out of four clones analyzed were found to contain the 365 bp fragment cloned in the correct orientation for reconstitution of the rabbit GH receptor gene. The lack of complications in the cloning in of the rabbit gene in contrast to the human gene is consistent with the results of Leung et al 1987 who also readily obtained full length cDNA clones for the rabbit GH receptor gene but were unable to clone a full length cDNA of the human gene in . The rabbit GH receptor can be employed in assays with human GH as a ligand as it has been shown that the human GH binds the rabbit receptor with high affinity Leung et al 1987 . Plasmids containing the cloned rabbit GH receptor should be sequenced to identify a rabbit GH receptor cDNA with the correct sequence before use.

As an alternative to the rabbit receptor a chimeric receptor could be constructed which combines the extracellular domain of the human receptor with the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of the rabbit receptor. Such a chimeric receptor could be constructed by recombining the human and rabbit genes at the unique Nco I site that is present in each Leung et al 1987 . Such a recombinant containing the human gene segment located 5 to or upstream of the Nco I site and the rabbit gene segment 3 to or downstream of the Nco I site would encode a chimeric receptor of precisely the desired type having the extracellular domain of the human receptor with the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of the rabbit receptor. This would allow analysis of the interaction of GH GH muteins and PEGylated GH muteins with the natural receptor binding site but could avoid the necessity of cloning the full length human GH receptor in

The GH muteins can be expressed in a variety of expression systems such as bacteria yeast or insect cells. Vectors for expressing GH muteins in these systems are available commercially from a number of suppliers such as Novagen Inc. pET15b for expression in New England Biolabs pC4B1 for expression in Invitrogen pVL1392 pVL1393 and pMELBAC for expression in insect cells using Baculovirus vectors vectors for expression in yeast cells and pcDNA3 for expression in mammalian cells . GH has been successfully produced in as a cytoplasmic protein and as a secreted periplasmic protein using the OmpA or STII signal sequences to promote secretion of the protein into the periplasmic space Chang et al. 1987 Hsiung et al. 1986 . It is preferable that the GH muteins are expressed as secreted proteins so that they do not contain an N terminal methionine residue which is not present in the natural human protein. For expression in DNA sequences encoding GH or GH muteins can be cloned into expression vectors such as pET15b that uses the strong T7 promoter or pCYB1 that uses the TAC promoter. Adding IPTG isopropylthiogalactopyranoside available form Sigma Chemical Company to the growth media can induce expression of the protein. Recombinant GH will be secreted into the periplasmic space from which it can be released by and subsequently purified following osmotic shock Becker and Hsiung 1986 . The protein can be purified further using other chromatographic methods such as ion exchange hydrophobic interaction size exclusion and reversed phase chromatography all of which are well known to those of skill in the art e.g. see Becker and Hsiung 1986 . Protein concentrations can be determined using commercially available protein assay kits such as those sold by BioRad Laboratories Richmond Calif. . If the GH proteins are insoluble when expressed in they can be refolded using procedures well known to those skilled in the art see Cox et al. 1994 and World patent applications WO9422466 and WO9412219 .

Alternatively the proteins can be expressed in insect cells as secreted proteins. The expression plasmid can be modified to contain the GH signal sequence to promote secretion of the protein into the medium. The cDNAs can be cloned into commercially available vectors e.g. pVL1392 from Invitrogen Inc. and used to infect insect cells. The GH and GH muteins can be purified from conditioned media using conventional chromatography procedures. Antibodies to rhGH can be used in conjunction with Western blots to localize fractions containing the GH proteins during chromatography. Alternatively fractions containing GH can be identified using ELISA assays.

The cysteine added GH variants also can be expressed as intracellular or secreted proteins in eukaryotic cells such as yeast insect cells or mammalian cells. Vectors for expressing the proteins and methods for performing such experiments are described in catalogues from various commercial supply companies such as Invitrogen Inc. Stratagene Inc. and ClonTech Inc. The GH and GH muteins can be purified using conventional chromatography procedures.

Biological activity of the GH muteins can be measured using a cell line that proliferates in response to GH. Fuh et al. 1992 created a GH responsive cell line by stably transforming a myeloid leukemia cell line FDC P1 with a chimeric receptor comprising the extracellular domain of the rabbit GH receptor fused to the mouse G CSF receptor. This cell line proliferates in response to GH with a half maximal effective concentration EC of 20 picomolar. A similar cell line can be constructed using the published sequences of these receptors and standard molecular biology techniques Fuh et al. 1992 . Alternatively the extracellular domain of the human GH receptor can be fused to the mouse G CSF receptor using the published sequences of these receptors and standard molecular biology techniques. Transformed cells expressing the chimeric receptor can be identified by flow cytometry using labeled GH by the ability of transformed cells to bind radiolabeled GH or by the ability of transformed cells to proliferate in response to added GH. Purified GH and GH muteins can be tested in cell proliferation assays using cells expressing the chimeric receptor to measure specific activities of the proteins. Cells can be plated in 96 well dishes with various concentrations of GH or GH muteins. After 18 h cells are treated for 4 hours with H thymidine and harvested for determination of incorporated radioactivity. The ECcan be determined for each mutein. Assays should be performed at least three times for each mutein using triplicate wells for each data point. GH muteins displaying similar optimal levels of stimulation and ECvalues comparable to or greater than wild type GH are preferable.

GH muteins that retain in vitro activity can be PEGylated using a cysteine reactive 8 kDa PEG maleimide or PEG vinylsulfone commercially available from Shearwater Inc. Generally methods for PEGylating the proteins with these reagents will be similar to those described in world patent applications WO 9412219 and WO 9422466 and PCT application US95 06540 with minor modifications. The recombinant proteins must be partially reduced with dithiothreitol DTT in order to achieve optimal PEGylation of the free cysteine. Although the free cysteine is not involved in a disulfide bond it is relatively unreactive to cysteine reactive PEGs unless this partial reduction step is performed. The amount of DTT required to partially reduce each mutein can be determined empirically using a range of DTT concentrations. Typically a 5 10 fold molar excess of DTT for 30 min at room temperature is sufficient. Partial reduction can be detected by a slight shift in the elution profile of the protein from a reversed phase column Care must be taken not to over reduce the protein and expose additional cysteine residues. Over reduction can be detected by reversed phase HPLC the protein will have a retention time similar to the fully reduced and denatured protein and by the appearance of GH molecules containing two PEGs detectable by a molecular weight change on SDS PAGE . Wild type GH can serve as a control since it should not PEGylate under similar conditions. Excess DTT can be removed by size exclusion chromatography using spin columns. The partially reduced protein can be reacted with various concentrations of PEG maleimide PEG protein molar ratios of 1 1 5 1 10 1 and 50 1 to determine the optimum ratio of the two reagents. PEGylation of the protein can be monitored by a molecular weight shift using sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE . The lowest amount of PEG that gives significant quantities of mono pegylated product without giving di pegylated product will be considered optimum 80 conversion to mono pegylated product is considered good . Generally mono PEGylated protein can be purified from non PEGylated protein and unreacted PEG by size exclusion or ion exchange chromatography. The purified PEGylated protein can be tested in the cell proliferation assay described above to determine its specific activity.

The above experiments will allow identification of amino acids in the B C loop C D loop or N terminal end of the A B loop in GH that can be changed to cysteine residues PEGylated and retain in vitro biological activity. These muteins can be tested in animal disease models well known in the art.

Experiments can be performed to confirm that the PEG molecule is attached to the protein at the proper site. This can be accomplished by proteolytic digestion of the protein purification of the PEG peptide which will have a large molecular weight by size exclusion ion exchange or reversed phase chromatography followed by amino acid sequencing or mass spectroscopy. The PEG coupled amino acid will appear as a blank in the amino acid sequencing run.

The pharmacokinetic properties of the PEG GH proteins can be determined as follows or as described in world patent application WO9422466. Pairs of rats or mice can receive an intravenous bolus injection of the test proteins. Circulating levels of the proteins are measured over the course of 24 h by removing a small sample of blood from the animals at desired time points. Circulating levels of the test proteins can be quantitated using ELISA assays. Additional experiments can be performed using the subcutaneous route to administer the proteins. Similar experiments should be performed with the non PEGylated protein to serve as a control. These experiments will reveal whether attachment of a PEG reagent to the protein alters its pharmacokinetic properties. Covalent modification of the protein with PEG should increase the protein s circulating half life relative to the unPEGylated protein. Larger PEG molecules and or attachment of multiple PEG molecules should lengthen the circulating half life longer than smaller PEG molecules.

PEG GH proteins can be tested in rodent models of growth hormone deficiency Cox et al. 1994 and cachexia Tomas et al. 1992 Read et al. 1992 to determine optimum dosing schedules and demonstrate efficacy. These studies can explore different size PEG molecules e.g. 8 and 20 kDa and dosing schedules to determine the optimum PEG size and dosing schedule. It is expected that the larger PEG molecule will increase the circulating half life greater than the smaller PEG molecule and will require less frequent dosing. However large proteins potentially may have reduced volumes of distribution in vivo thus it is possible a 20 kDa PEG attached to GH will limit bioavailability reducing its efficacy. Rodent models will allow determination of whether this is the case. Once the optimum dosing schedules and PEG sizes are determined the efficacy of PEG GH to GH can be compared in the animal models. While all PEG GH proteins having GH activity are included in the invention the preferred PEG GH proteins are those that enhance growth equal or superior to GH but which can be given less frequently. PEG GH should be more efficacious than GH when both are administered using the less frequent dosing schedules.

One GH deficiency model that can be used is a hypophysectomized rat. GH stimulates body weight gain and bone and cartilage growth in this model Cox et al. 1994 . Hypophysectomized rats can be purchased from Charles River. Rats can be injected with GH PEG GH or placebo and weight gain measured daily over a 10 14 day period. At time of sacrifice tibial epiphysis width can be determined as a measure of bone growth. Experimental methods for performing these studies are described in Cox et al. 1994 .

The efficacy of PEG GH in rodent cachexia models can be tested in a similar manner. Daily administration of dexamethasone via osmotic pumps or subcutaneous injection can be used to induce weight loss Tomas et al. 1992 Read et al. 1992 PCT patent application US95 06540 .

This example relates to cysteine added variants of erythropoietin EPO . EPO is the hormone primarily responsible for stimulating erythropoiesis or red blood cell formation. EPO acts on immature red blood cell precursors to stimulate their further proliferation and differentiation into mature red blood cells. A commercial pharmaceutical version is available from Amgen Inc. Human EPO is a 35 39 kDa glycoprotein secreted by the adult kidney. The mature human protein contains 166 amino acids and is heavily glycosylated. The sequence of human EPO SEQ ID NO 2 is shown in Lin et al 1985 and Jacobs et al. 1985 which are incorporated herein by reference. The primary sequence of EPO is highly conserved among species greater than 80 identity Wen et al. 1994 . Sugar groups account for greater than 40 of the protein s mass. Human EPO contains three N linked glycosylation sites and one O linked glycosylation site. The N linked glycosylation sites are conserved in different species whereas the O linked glycosylation site is not. The extensive glycosylation of EPO has prevented the protein s crystallization so the X ray structure of the protein is not known. Human EPO contains four cysteine residues. The disulfide assignments are Cys7 to Cys161 and Cys29 to Cys33. Cys33 is not conserved in mouse EPO suggesting that the Cys29 Cys33 disulfide bond is not critical to mouse EPO s structure or function. This conclusion also seems to hold for human EPO Boissel et al. 1993 .

The amino acid sequence of EPO is consistent with the protein being a member of the GH supergene family and mutational studies support this view of EPO s structure Boissel et al. 1993 Wen et al. 1994 . A model of the three dimensional structure of EPO modeled after the GH structure has been proposed Boissel et al. 1993 Wen et al. 1994 . Helix A encompasses amino acids 9 22 Helix B encompasses amino acids 59 76 Helix C encompasses amino acids 90 107 and Helix D encompasses amino acids 132 152. Amino acids in EPO important for receptor binding have been identified through mutagenesis experiments and reside primarily in the N terminal half of presumptive helix A and the C terminal half of presumptive helix D Boissel et al. 1993 Wen et al. 1994 Matthews et al. 1996 . Only a single cell surface receptor for EPO has been identified D Andrea et al. 1989 . It is believed that EPO dimerizes its receptor in much the same way that GH dimerizes its receptor Matthew s et al. 1996 .

Human EPO contains three sites for N linked glycosylation asparagine 24 38 and 83 and one site for O linked glycosylation serine 126 . The N linked glycosylation sites are located in the A B and B C loops and the O glycosylation site is located in the C D loop. The N linked glycosylation sites are conserved among species whereas the O linked glycosylation site is absent in rodent EPO Wen et al. 1993 . A non O linked glycosylated human variant containing methionine at position 126 has been described U.S. Pat. No. 4 703 008 . The N linked sugar groups are heavily branched and contain terminal sialic acid residues Sasaki et al. 1987 Takeuchi et al. 1988 . N 38 and N 83 contain the most highly branched oligosaccharides Sasaki et al. 1988 .

The terminal sialic residues on EPO are critical for the protein s in vivo function because removal of these residues by digestion eliminates in vivo activity Fukada et al. 1989 Spivak and Hogans 1989 . Loss of activity correlates with faster clearance of the asialated protein from the body. The circulating half life of the asialated protein in rats is less than ten minutes in contrast to that of the sialated protein which is approximately 2 hr Fukada et al. 1989 Spivak and Hogans 1989 . Thus in vivo activity of EPO directly correlates with its circulating half life.

The role of N linked sugars in EPO s biological activities has been better defined by mutating individually and in combination the three asparagine residues comprising the N linked glycosylation sites. EPO muteins in which only a single N linked glycosylation site was mutated i.e. N24Q N38Q and N83Q were secreted from mammalian cells as efficiently as wild type EPO indicating that N linked glycosylation at all three sites is not required for protein secretion N24Q indicates that the asparagine at position 24 is mutated to glutamine . In contrast EPO muteins in which two or more N linked glycosylation sites were mutated were secreted less efficiently than wild type EPO from mammalian cells Yamaguchi et al. 1991 Delorme et al. 1992 . Mutagenesis studies found that each of the single N linked glycosylation site muteins had in vitro biological activities equal to or greater than wild type EPO. Thus it was concluded that none of the N linked glycosylation sites is essential for secretion or in vitro biological activity of EPO. In fact removal of one of the glycosylation sites seemed to improve biological activity Yamaguchi et al. 1991 .

The in vivo biological activity of N linked glycosylation muteins was studied by two groups. Yamaguchi et al. 1991 concluded that the N24Q and N83Q muteins had in vivo activities greater than wild type EPO which correlated with their increased in vitro activities. These authors found that the N38Q mutein had decreased in vivo activity about 60 of wild type EPO. N38 is the most heavily branched of the three N linked glycosylation sites Sasaki et al. 1988 . Delorme et al. 1992 reported that mutating any of the N linked glycosylation sites reduced in vivo biological activity by about 50 . Muteins in which two or more glycosylation sites were mutated had decreased in vivo activities in both studies.

The above studies indicate that some N linked glycosylation is required for in vitro and in vivo activity of EPO. Individually however none of the three glycosylation sites is absolutely essential for activity. The N linked sugars increase the apparent molecular weight of EPO and prolong its circulating half life which correlates with bioactivity. Natural EPO and EPO manufactured in mammalian cells have complex N linked sugars containing galactose and terminal sialic acid residues. The galactose residues are recognized by specific receptors on hepatocytes and promote rapid clearance of EPO from the body unless the galactose residues are masked by the terminal sialic acid residues.

Mutagenesis studies concluded that O linked glycosylation is not required for in vitro or in vivo function of EPO Delorme et al. 1992 . This is in keeping with the observation that rodent EPO is not O glycosylated and with the existence of a naturally occurring human EPO variant in which serine 126 is replaced by methionine with a corresponding lack of O linked glycosylation. Mutagenesis of serine 126 revealed that certain amino acid changes at this site to valine histidine or glutamic acid yielded EPO muteins with biological activities similar to wild type EPO whereas other amino acid changes to alanine or glycine resulted in EPO molecules with severely reduced activities Delorme et al. 1992 . The effect of changing serine 126 to cysteine was not studied. The in vivo bioactivity of S126V EPO was found to be similar to wild type EPO Delorme et al. 1992 .

The requirement for complex N linked carbohydrates containing terminal sialic acid residues for in vivo activity of EPO has limited commercial manufacture of the protein to mammalian cells. The important functions of the sialated N linked sugars are to prevent protein aggregation increase protein stability and prolong the circulating half life of the protein. The terminal sialic acid residues prolong EPO s circulating half life by masking the underlying galactose residues which are recognized by specific receptors on hepatocytes and promote clearance of the asialated protein. EPO can be produced in insect cells and is N glycosylated and fully active in vitro its activity in vivo has not been reported Wojchowski et al. 1987 .

This example provides for the design of cysteine added EPO variants and their use in preparing conjugates using cysteine reactive PEGs and other cysteine reactive moieties. Certain amino acids in EPO are non essential for biological activity and can be mutated to cysteine residues without altering the normal disulfide binding pattern and overall conformation of the molecule. These amino acids are located in the A B loop amino acids 23 58 of the mature protein sequence the B C loop amino acids 77 89 of the mature protein sequence the C D loop amino acids 108 131 of the mature protein sequence proximal to helix A amino acids 1 8 and distal to helix D amino acids 153 166 of the mature protein sequence . Also contemplated as preferred sites for adding cysteine residues are at the N terminus or C terminus of the protein sequence. Preferred sites for cysteine substitutions are the O linked glycosylation site serine 126 and the amino acids comprising the three N linked glycosylation sites N24 I25 T26 N38 I39 T40 N83 S84 S85 . Glycosylation sites are attractive sites for introducing cysteine substitutions and attaching PEG molecules to EPO because 1 these sites are surface exposed 2 the natural protein can tolerate bulky sugar groups at these positions 3 the glycosylation sites are located in the putative loop regions and away from the receptor binding site Wen et al. 1994 and 4 mutagenesis studies indicate these sites at least individually are not essential for in vitro or in vivo activity Yamaguchi et al. 1991 Delorme et al. 1992 . As discussed above the local conformation of the region encompassing the O glycosylation site region seems to be important for biological activity. Whether a cysteine substitution at position 126 affects biological activity has not been studied. The cysteine 29 to cysteine 33 disulfide bond is not necessary for biological activity of EPO because changing both residues to tyrosine simultaneously yielded a biologically active EPO protein Boissel et al. 1993 Wen et al. 1994 . A free cysteine can be created by changing either cysteine 29 or cysteine 33 to another amino acid. Preferred amino acid changes would be to serine or alanine. The remaining free cysteine cysteine 29 or cysteine 33 would be a preferred site for covalently modifying the protein with cysteine reactive moieties.

Bill et al. 1995 individually substituted cysteine for N24 N38 and N83 and reported that the muteins had greatly reduced in vitro biological activities less than 20 of wild type activity . Bill et al. 1995 expressed the EPO variants as fusion proteins fused to glutathionine S transferase in bacteria. One aspect of the present invention is to provide expression systems in which the N24C N38C and N83C EPO variants will have in vitro biological activities more similar to wild type EPO.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 703 008 contemplates naturally occurring variants of EPO as well as amino acid substitutions that are present in EPO proteins of mammals. Ovine EPO contains a cysteine residue at position 88 of the polypeptide chain. The inventor is unaware of any other naturally occurring human or animal cysteine variants of EPO in which the cysteine residue occurs in the polypeptide regions disclosed herein as being useful for generating cysteine added EPO variants. U.S. Pat. No. 4 703 008 specifically teaches away from cysteine added EPO variants by suggesting that expression of EPO might be improved by deleting cysteine residues or substituting naturally occurring cysteine residues with serine or histidine residues.

The mature protein form of EPO can contain 165 or 166 amino acids because of post translational removal of the C terminal arginine Asp 165 is the C terminus of the 165 amino acid form and Agr 166 is the C terminal amino acid of the 166 amino acid form. The cysteine substitution and insertion mutations described herein can comprise either the 165 or 166 amino acid forms of mature EPO.

A cDNA encoding EPO can be cloned using the polymerase chain reaction PCR technique from the human HepG2 or Hep3B cell lines which are known to express EPO when treated with hypoxia or cobalt chloride Wen et al. 1993 and are available from the American Type Culture Collection ATCC . Cysteine mutations can be introduced into the cDNA by standard phage plasmid or PCR mutagenesis procedures as described for GH. As described above the preferred sites for introduction of cysteine substitution mutations are in the A B loop the B C loop the C D loop and the region proximal to helix A and distal to helix D. The most preferred sites in these regions are the N and O linked glycosylation sites S126C N24C I25C T26C N38C I39C T40C N83C S 84C and S85C. Other preferred sites for cysteine substitution mutagenesis are in the A B loop the B C loop and the C D loop amino acids surrounding the glycosylation sites and the region of the protein proximal to helix A and distal to helix D Boissel et al. 1993 Wen et al. 1994 . Other preferred sites for cysteine substitutions in these regions are A1 P2 P3 R4 D8 S9 T27 G28 A30 E31 H32 S34 N36 D43 T44 K45 N47 A50 K52 E55 G57 Q58 G77 Q78 A79 Q86 W88 E89 T107 R110 A111 G113 A114 Q115 K116 E117 A118 S120 P121 P122 D123 A124 A125 A127 A128 T132 K154 T157 G158 E159 A160 T163 G164 D165 and R166. Cysteine residues also can be introduced proximal to the first amino acid of the mature protein i.e. proximal to A1 or distal to the final amino acid in the mature protein i.e. distal to D165 or R166. Other variants in which cys 29 or cys 33 have been replaced with other amino acids preferably serine or alanine also are provided.

Wild type EPO and EPO muteins can be expressed using insect cells to determine whether the cysteine added muteins are biologically active. DNAs encoding EPO EPO muteins can be cloned into the Baculovirus expression vector pVL1392 available from Invitrogen Inc. and Sigma Corporation St. Louis Mo. and used to infect insect cells. Recombinant Baculoviruses producing EPO can be identified by Western blots of infected insect cell conditioned media using polyclonal anti human EPO antiserum available from R D Systems . The secreted EPO mutein proteins can be purified by conventional chromatographic procedures well known to those of skill in the art. Protein concentrations can be determined using commercially available protein assay kits or ELISA assay kits available from R D Systems and Bio Rad Laboratories .

Purified EPO and EPO muteins can be tested in cell proliferation assays using EPO responsive cell lines such as UT7 epo Wen et al. 1994 or TF1 available from the ATCC to measure specific activities of the proteins. Cells can be plated in 96 well microtiter plates with various concentrations of EPO. Assays should be performed in triplicate. After 1 3 days in culture cell proliferation can be measured by H thymidine incorporation as described above for GH. The concentration of protein giving half maximal stimulation EC can be determined for each mutein. Assays should be performed at least three times for each mutein with triplicate wells for each data point. ECvalues can be used to compare the relative potencies of the muteins. Alternatively cell proliferation in response to added EPO muteins can be analyzed using an MTT dye exclusion assay Komatsu et al. 1991 . Proteins displaying similar optimal levels of stimulation and ECvalues comparable to or greater than wild type EPO are preferable.

The above studies confirm identification of amino acid residues in EPO that can be changed to cysteine residues and retain biological activity. Muteins that retain activity can be PEGylated using a cysteine reactive 8 kDa PEG maleimide as described above for GH muteins. Wild type EPO should be used as a control since it should not react with the cysteine reactive PEG under identical partial reduction conditions. The lowest amount of PEG that gives significant quantities of mono PEGylated product without giving di PEGylated product should be considered optimum. Mono PEGylated protein can be purified from non PEGylated protein and unreacted PEG by size exclusion or ion exchange chromatography. The purified PEGylated proteins should be tested in the cell proliferation assay described above to determine their bioactivities.

One or more of the PEGylated EPO muteins that retain in vitro bioactivity are candidates for testing in animal disease models. PEGylation of the protein at the proper amino acid can be determined as described for GH.

In vivo testing of PEGylated EPO muteins expressed using insect cells may require that they be re engineered for expression in mammalian cells to ensure proper glycosylation. PEG EPO candidates produced using insect cells can be tested in the animal models described below to determine if they are active in vivo and whether they are as active as PEG EPO produced using mammalian cell expression systems. For expression in mammalian cells the EPO muteins can be subcloned into commercially available eukaryotic expression vectors and used to stably transform Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cells available from the ATCC . Sublines can be screened for EPO expression using ELISA assays. Sufficient quantities of the insect cell and mammalian cell produced EPO muteins can be prepared to compare their biological activities in animal anemia models.

In vivo bioactivities of the EPO muteins can be tested using the artificial polycythemia or starved rodent models Cotes and Bangham. 1961 Goldwasser and Gross. 1975 . In the starved rodent model rats are deprived of food on day one and treated with test samples on days two and three. On day four rats receive an injection of radioactive iron 59. Approximately 18 h later rats are anesthetized and blood samples drawn. The percent conversion of labeled iron into red blood cells is then determined. In the artificial polycythemia model mice are maintained in a closed tank and exposed for several days to hypobaric air. The animals are then brought to normal air pressure. Red blood cell formation is suppressed for several days. On day four or six after return to normal air pressure mice are injected with erythropoietin or saline. Mice receive one injection per day for one to two days. One day later the animals receive an intravenous injection of labeled iron 59. The mice are euthanized 20 h later and the amount of labeled iron incorporated into red blood cells determined EPO stimulates red blood cell formation in both models as measured by a dose dependent increase in labeled iron incorporated into red blood cells. In both models different dosing regimens and different times of injections can be studied to determine if PEG EPO is biologically active and or more potent and produces longer acting effects than natural EPO.

Alpha interferon is produced by leukocytes and has antiviral anti tumor and immunomodulatory effects. There are at least 20 distinct alpha interferon genes that encode proteins that share 70 or greater amino acid identity. Amino acid sequences of the known alpha interferon species are given in Blatt et al. 1996 . A consensus interferon that incorporates the most common amino acids into a single polypeptide chain has been described Blatt et al. 1996 . A hybrid alpha interferon protein may be produced by splicing different parts of alpha interferon proteins into a single protein Horisberger and Di Marco 1995 . Some alpha interferons contain N linked glycosylation sites in the region proximal to helix A and near the B C loop Blatt et al. 1966 . The alpha 2 interferon protein SEQ ID NO 3 contains four cysteine residues that form two disulfide bonds. The cys1 cys98 disulfide bond cys1 cys99 in some alpha interferon species such as alpha 1 SEQ ID NO 4 is not essential for activity. The alpha 2 interferon protein does not contain any N linked glycosylation sites. There are two subtypes of the alpha 2 interferon protein one subtype has arginine at position 23 whereas the other subtype has lysine at position 23. The crystal structure of alpha interferon has been determined Radhakrishnan et al. 1996 . Alpha interferon has five major alpha helices referred to as helices A E. Helix A encompasses amino acids 9 21 helix B encompasses amino acids 52 68 helix C encompasses amino acids 78 100 helix D encompasses amino acids 112 132 and helix E encompasses amino acids 137 160.

This example provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix amino acids 1 8 distal to the E helix amino acids 161 165 in the A B loop amino acids 22 51 in the B C loop amino acids 69 77 in the C D loop amino acids 101 111 and in the D E loop amino acids 133 136 . This Example also provides cysteine added variants at the first three or last three amino acids in helices A B C D and E. Preferred sites for the introduction of cysteine residues in these regions of the alpha interferon 2 species are D2 L3 P4 Q5 T6 S8 Q20 R22 K R23 S25 F27 S28 K31 D32 R33 D35 G37 F38 Q40 E41 E42 F43 G44 N45 Q46 F47 Q48 K49 A50 N65 S68 T69 K70 D71 S72 S73 A74 A75 D77 E78 T79 Y89 Q90 Q91 N93 D94 E96 A97 Q101 G102 G104 T106 E107 T108 P109 K112 E113 D114 S115 K131 E132 K133 K134 Y135 S136 A139 S152 S154 T155 N156 L157 Q158 E159 S160 L161 R162 S163 K164 E165. Variants in which cysteine residues are introduced proximal to the first amino acid of the mature protein i.e. proximal to C1 or distal to the final amino acid in the mature protein i.e. distal to E165 are provided. Other variants in which cys 1 or cys 98 cys 99 in some alpha interferon species have been replaced with other amino acids preferably serine or alanine also are provided. Other variants in which Cys 1 has been deleted des Cys 1 also are provided. The cysteine variants may be in the context of any naturally occurring or non natural alpha interferon sequence e.g. consensus interferon or interferon protein hybrids. Some naturally occurring alpha interferon species e.g. alpha interferon 1 contain a naturally occurring free cysteine. In such interferon species the naturally occurring free cysteine can be changed to another amino acid preferably serine or alanine.

This example also provides cysteine variants of other alpha interferon species including consensus interferon at equivalent sites in these proteins. The alignment of the alpha interferon 2 species with other known alpha interferon species and consensus interferon is given in Blatt et al. 1996 . The crystal structure of alpha interferon 2 has been determined by Rhadhakrishnan et al. 1996 . Lydon et al 1985 found that deletion of the first four amino acids from the N terminus of alpha interferon did not affect biological activity. Valenzuela et al 1985 found that substitution of Phe 47 in alpha interferon 2 with Cys Tyr or Ser did not alter biological activity of the protein. Cys 1 and Cys 98 have been changed individually to glycine and serine respectively without altering biological activity of the protein DeChiara et al 1986 .

DNA sequences encoding alpha interferon 2 can be amplified from human genomic DNA since alpha interferon genes do not contain introns Pestka et al. 1987 . The DNA sequence of alpha interferon 2 is given in Goeddel et al. 1980 . Alternatively a cDNA for alpha interferon 2 can be isolated from human lymphoblastoid cell lines that are known to express alpha interferon spontaneously or after exposure to viruses Goeddell et al. 1980 Pickering et al. 1980 . Many of these cell lines are available from the American Type Culture Collection Rockville Md. . Specific mutations can be introduced into the alpha interferon sequence using plasmid based site directed mutagenesis kits e.g. Quick Change Mutagenesis Kit Stratagene Inc. phage mutagenesis strategies or employing PCR mutagenesis as described for GH.

Alpha interferon has been successfully produced in as an intracellular protein Tarnowski et al. 1986 Thatcher and Panayotatos 1986 . Similar procedures can be used to express alpha interferon muteins. Plasmids encoding alpha interferon or alpha interferon muteins can be cloned into an expression vector such as pET15b Novagene Inc. that uses the strong T7 promoter or pCYB1 New England BioLabs Beverly Mass. that uses the TAC promoter. Expression of the protein can be induced by adding IPTG to the growth media.

Recombinant alpha interferon expressed in is sometimes soluble and sometimes insoluble Tarnowski et al. 1986 Thatcher and Panayotatos 1986 . Insolubility appears to be related to the degree of overexpression of the protein. Insoluble alpha interferon proteins can be recovered as inclusion bodies and renatured to a fully active conformation following standard oxidative refolding protocols Thatcher and Panayotatos 1986 Cox et al. 1994 . The alpha interferon proteins can be purified further using other chromatographic methods such as ion exchange hydrophobic interaction size exclusion and reversed phase resins Thatcher and Panayotaos 1986 . Protein concentrations can be determined using commercially available protein assay kits Bio Rad Laboratories .

If expression of alpha interferon muteins is not successful one can express the proteins in insect cells as secreted proteins as described for GH. The proteins can be modified to contain the natural alpha interferon signal sequence Goeddell et al. 1980 or the honeybee mellitin signal sequence Invitrogen Inc. to promote secretion of the proteins. Alpha interferon and alpha interferon muteins can be purified from conditioned media using conventional chromatography procedures. Antibodies to alpha interferon can be used in conjunction with Western blots to localize fractions containing the alpha interferon proteins during chromatography. Alternatively fractions containing alpha interferon proteins can be identified using ELISAs.

Bioactivities of alpha interferon and alpha interferon muteins can be measured using an in vitro viral plaque reduction assay Ozes et al. 1992 Lewis 1995 . Human HeLa cells can be plated in 96 well plates and grown to near confluency at 37 C. The cells are then washed and treated for 24 hour with different concentrations of each alpha interferon preparation. Controls should include no alpha interferon and wild type alpha interferon commercially available from Endogen Inc. Woburn Mass. . A virus such as Vesicular stomatitis virus VSV or encephalomyocarditis virus EMCV is added to the plates and the plates incubated for a further 24 48 hours at 37 C. Additional controls should include samples without virus. When 90 or more of the cells have been killed in the virus treated no alpha interferon control wells determined by visual inspection of the wells the cell monolayer are stained with crystal violet and absorbance of the wells read using a microplate reader. Alternatively the cell monolayers can be stained with the dye MTT Lewis 1995 . Samples should be analyzed in duplicate or triplicate. ECvalues the amount of protein required to inhibit the cytopathic effect of the virus by 50 can be used to compare the relative potencies of the proteins. Wild type alpha interferon 2 protects cells from the cytopathic effects of VSV and EMCV and has a specific activity of approximately 2 10units mg in this assay Ozes et al. 1992 . Alpha interferon muteins displaying ECvalues comparable to wild type Alpha Interferon are preferable.

Alpha interferon muteins that retain activity can be PEGylated using procedures similar to those described for GH. Wild type alpha interferon 2 can serve as a control since it should not PEGylate under similar conditions. The lowest amount of PEG that gives significant quantities of mono pegylated product without giving di pegylated product should be considered optimum. Mono PEGylated protein can be purified from non PEGylated protein and unreacted PEG by size exclusion or ion exchange chromatography. The purified PEGylated proteins can be tested in the viral plaque reduction bioassay described above to determine their bioactivities. PEGylated alpha interferon proteins with bioactivities comparable to wild type alpha interferon are preferable. Mapping the PEG attachment site and determination of pharmacokinetic data for the PEGylated protein can be performed as described for GH.

In vivo bioactivities of the PEG alpha interferon muteins can be tested using tumor xenograft models in nude mice and viral infection models Balkwill 1986 Fish et al. 1986 . Since PEG alpha interferon bioactivity may be species specific one should confirm activity of the PEGylated protein using appropriate animal cell lines in in vitro virus plaque reduction assays similar to those described above. Next one should explore the effects of different dosing regimens and different times of injections to determine if PEG alpha interferon is more potent and produces longer lasting effects than non PEGylated alpha interferon.

The novel alpha interferon derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

Beta interferon is produced by fibroblasts and exhibits antiviral antitumor and immunomodulatory effects. The single copy beta interferon gene encodes a preprotein that is cleaved to yield a mature protein of 166 amino acids Taniguchi et al. 1980 SEQ ID NO 5 . The protein contains three cysteines one of which cysteine 17 is free i.e. it does not participate in a disulfide bond. The protein contains one N linked glycosylation site. The crystal structure of the protein has been determined Karpusas et al. 1997 . Beta interferon has five major alpha helices referred to as helices A E. Helix A encompasses amino acids 2 22 helix B encompasses amino acids 51 71 helix C encompasses amino acids 80 107 helix D encompasses amino acids 118 136 and helix E encompasses amino acids 139 162.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the three amino acids that comprise the N linked glycosylation sites i.e. N80C E81C or T82C. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix amino acid 1 distal to the E helix amino acids 163 166 in the A B loop amino acids 23 50 in the B C loop amino acids 72 79 in the C D loop amino acids 108 117 and in the D E loop amino acids 137 138 . This Example also provides cysteine added variants at the first three or last three amino acids in helices A B C D and E. Preferred sites for introduction of cysteine residues in these regions are M1 S2 Y3 N4 L5 Q23 N25 G26 R27 E29 Y30 K33 D34 R35 N37 D39 E42 E43 K45 Q46 L47 Q48 Q49 Q51 K52 E53 A68 F70 R71 Q72 D73 S74 S75 S76 T77 G78 E107 K108 E109 D110 F111 T112 R113 G114 K115 L116 A135 K136 E137 K138 S139 I157 N158 R159 L160 T161 G162 Y163 L164 R165 and N166. Variants in which cysteine residues are introduced proximal to the first amino acid of the mature protein i.e. proximal to M1 or distal to the final amino acid in the mature protein i.e. distal to N166 also are provided.

These variants are produced in the context of the natural protein sequence or a variant protein in which the naturally occurring free cysteine residue cysteine 17 has been changed to another amino acid preferably serine or alanine.

The novel beta interferon derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

G CSF is a pleuripotent cytokine that stimulates the proliferation differentiation and function of granulocytes. The protein is produced by activated monocytes and macrophages. The amino acid sequence of G CSF SEQ ID NO 6 is given in Souza et al. 1986 Nagata et al. 1986a b and U.S. Pat. No. 4 810 643 all incorporated herein by reference. The human protein is synthesized as a preprotein of 204 or 207 amino acids that is cleaved to yield mature proteins of 174 or 177 amino acids. The larger form has lower specific activity than the smaller form. The protein contains five cysteines four of which are involved in disulfide bonds. Cysteine 17 is not involved in a disulfide bond. Substitution of cysteine 17 with serine yields a mutant G CSF protein that is fully active U.S. Pat. No. 4 810 643 . The protein is O glycosylated at threonine 133 of the mature protein. G CSF contains four major alpha helices referred to as helices A D. Helix A encompasses amino acids 11 39 helix B encompasses amino acids 71 91 helix C encompasses amino acids 100 123 and helix D encompasses amino acids 143 172.

This example provides a cysteine added variant at threonine 133. This example provides other cysteine added variants in the region proximal to helix A amino acids 1 10 distal to helix D amino acids 173 174 in the A B loop amino acids 40 70 B C loop amino acids 92 99 and C D loop amino acids 124 142 . This Example also provides cysteine added variants at the first three or last three amino acids in helices A B C and D. Preferred sites for introduction of cysteine substitutions in these regions are T1 P2 L3 G4 P5 A6 S7 S8 L9 P10 Q11 S12 T38 K40 S53 G55 W58 A59 P60 S62 S63 P65 S66 Q67 A68 Q70 A72 Q90 A91 E93 G94 S96 E98 G100 G125 M126 A127 A129 Q131 T133 Q134 G135 A136 A139 A141 S142 A143 Q145 Q173 and P174. Variants in which cysteine residues are introduced proximal to the first amino acid of the mature protein i.e. proximal to T1 or distal to the final amino acid in the mature protein i.e. distal to P174 are provided. These variants are provided in the context of the natural protein sequence or a variant protein in which the naturally occurring free cysteine residue cysteine 17 has been changed to another amino acid preferably serine or alanine.

A cDNA encoding human G CSF can be purchased from R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. or amplified using PCR from mRNA isolated from human carcinoma cell lines such as 5637 and U87 MG known to express G CSF constitutively Park et al. 1989 Nagata 1994 . These cell lines are available from the American Type Culture collection Rockville Md. . Specific mutations can be introduced into the G CSF sequence using plasmid based site directed mutagenesis kits e.g. Quick Change Mutagenesis Kit Stratagene Inc. phage mutagenesis methods or employing PCR mutagenesis as described for GH.

G CSF has been successfully produced in as an intracellular protein Souza et al. 1986 . One can employ similar procedures to express G CSF and G CSF muteins. Plasmids encoding G CSF or G CSF muteins can be cloned into an expression vector such as pET15b available from Novagen Inc. Madison Wis. that uses the strong T7 promoter or pCYB1 available from New England BioLabs Beverly Mass. that uses the strong TAC promoter. Expression of the protein can be induced by adding IPTG to the growth media. Recombinant G CSF expressed in is insoluble and can be recovered as inclusion bodies. The protein can be renatured to a fully active conformation following standard oxidative refolding protocols Souza et al. 1986 Lu et al. 1992 Cox et al. 1994 . Similar procedures can be used to refold cysteine muteins. The proteins can be purified further using other chromatographic methods such as ion exchange hydrophobic interaction size exclusion and reversed phase resins Souza et al. 1986 Kuga et al. 1989 Lu et al. 1992 . Protein concentrations can be determined using commercially available protein assay kits Bio Rad Laboratories .

If expression of G CSF or G CSF muteins is not successful one can express G CSF and G CSF muteins in insect cells as secreted proteins as described for GH. The proteins can be modified to contain the natural G CSF signal sequence Souza et al. 1986 Nagata et al. 1986a Nagata et al 1986b or the honeybee mellitin signal sequence Invitrogen Inc. Carlsbad Calif. to promote secretion of the proteins. G CSF and G CSF muteins can be purified from conditioned media using conventional chromatography procedures. Antibodies to G CSF can be used in conjunction with Western blots to localize fractions containing the G CSF proteins during chromatography. Alternatively fractions containing G CSF proteins can be identified using ELISAs.

Bioactivities of G CSF and the G CSF muteins can be measured using an in vitro cell proliferation assay. The mouse NFS 60 cell line and the human AML 193 cell line can be used to measure G CSF bioactivity Tsuchiya et al. 1986 Lange et al. 1987 Shirafuji et al. 1989 . Both cell lines proliferate in response to human G CSF. The AML 193 cell line is preferable since it is of human origin which eliminates the possibility of a false conclusion resulting from species differences. The NFS60 cell lines proliferates in response to G CSF with a half maximal effective concentration EC of 10 20 picomolar. Purified G CSF and G CSF muteins can be tested in cell proliferation assays using these cell lines to determine specific activities of the proteins using published methods Tsuchiya et al. 1986 Lange et al. 1987 Shirafuji et al. 1989 . Cells can be plated in 96 well tissue culture dishes with different concentrations of G CSF or G CSF muteins. After 1 3 days at 37 C. in a humidified tissue culture incubator proliferation can be measured by H thymidine incorporation as described for GH. Assays should be performed at least three times for each mutein using triplicate wells for each data point. ECvalues can be used to compare the relative potencies of the muteins. G CSF muteins displaying similar optimal levels of stimulation and ECvalues comparable to wild type G CSF are preferable.

G CSF muteins that retain activity can be PEGylated using procedures similar to those described for GH. Wild type G CSF and ser 17 G CSF can serve as controls since they should not PEGylate under similar conditions. The lowest amount of PEG that gives significant quantities of mono PEGylated product without giving di PEGylated product should be considered optimum. Mono PEGylated protein can be purified from non PEGylated protein and unreacted PEG by size exclusion or ion exchange chromatography. The purified PEGylated proteins can be tested in the cell proliferation assay described above to determine their bioactivities.

The PEG site in the protein can be mapped using procedures similar to those described for GH. Pharmacokinetic data for the PEGylated proteins can be obtained using procedures similar to those described for GH.

Initial studies to demonstrate in vivo efficacy of PEG G CSF can be done in normal Sprague Dawley rats which can be purchased from Charles River. Groups of rats should receive single subcutaneous or intravenous injections of various doses of G CSF PEG G CSF or placebo. Animals should be sacrificed at daily intervals for up to a week for determination of neutrophil and total white blood cell counts in peripheral blood. Other blood cell types platelets and red blood cells can be measured to demonstrate cell specificity.

The efficacy of PEG G CSF can be tested in a rat neutropenia model. Neutropenia can be induced by treatment with cyclophosphamide which is a commonly used chemotherapeutic agent that is myelosuppressive. G CSF accelerates recovery of normal neutrophil levels in cyclophosphamide treated animals Kubota et al. 1990 . Rats receive an injection of cyclophosphamide on day 0 to induce neutropenia. The animals are then be divided into different groups which will receive subcutaneous injections of G CSF PEG G CSF or placebo. Neutrophil and total white blood cell counts in peripheral blood should be measured daily until they return to normal levels. Initially one should confirm that G CSF accelerates recovery from neutropenia when injected daily. Next one should explore the effects of different dosing regimens and different times of injections to determine if PEG G CSF is more potent and produces longer lasting effects than non PEGylated G CSF.

The novel GCSF derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

Thrombopoietin stimulates the development of megakaryocyte precursors of platelets. The amino acid sequence of TPO SEQ ID NO 7 is given in Bartley et al. 1994 Foster et al. 1994 de Sauvage et al. 1994 each incorporated herein by reference.

The protein is synthesized as a 353 amino acid precursor protein that is cleaved to yield a mature protein of 332 amino acids. The N terminal 154 amino acids have homology with EPO and other members of the GH supergene family. The C terminal 199 amino acids do not share homology with any other known proteins. The C terminal region contains six N linked glycosylation sites and multiple O linked glycosylation sites Hoffman et al. 1996 . O linked glycosylation sites also are found in the region proximal to the A helix in the A B loop and at the C terminus of Helix C Hoffman et al. 1996 . A truncated TPO protein containing only residues 1 195 of the mature protein is fully active in vitro Bartley et al. 1994 .

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the amino acids that comprise the N linked glycosylation sites and the O linked glycosylation sites. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix amino acids 1 7 distal to the D helix amino acids 148 332 in the A B loop amino acids 34 58 in the B C loop amino acids 78 86 and in the C D loop amino acids 111 122 . This Example also provides cysteine added variants at the first three or last three amino acids in helices A B C and D. Helix a encompasses amino acids 8 33 helix B encompasses amino acids 59 77 helix C encompasses amino acids 87 110 and helix D encompasses amino acids 123 147.

Preferred sites for introduction of cysteine residues are S1 P2 A3 P4 P5 A6 T37 A43 D45 S47 G49 E50 K52 T53 Q54 E56 E57 T58 A76 A77 R78 G79 Q80 G82 T84 S87 S88 G109 T110 Q111 P113 P114 Q115 G116 R117 T118 T119 A120 H121 K122 G146 G147 S148 T149 A155 T158 T159 A160 S163 T165 S166 T170 N176 R177 T178 S179 G180 E183 T184 N185 F186 T187 A188 S189 A190 T192 T193 G194 S195 N213 Q214 T215 S216 S218 N234 G235 T236 S244 T247 S254 S255 T257 S258 T260 S262 S272 S274 T276 T280 T291 T294 S307 T310 T312 T314 S315 N319 T320 S321 T323 S325 Q326 N327 L328 S329 Q330 E331 and G332. Variants in which cysteine residues are introduced proximal to the first amino acid of the mature protein i.e. proximal to S1 or distal to the final amino acid in the mature protein i.e. distal to G332 are provided. The cysteine added variants are provided in the context of the natural human protein or a variant protein that is truncated between amino acids 147 and the C terminus of the natural protein G332. Variants in which cysteine residues are added distal to the final amino acid of a TPO protein that is truncated between amino acids 147 and 332 also are provided.

The novel TPO derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

GM CSF stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of various hematopoietic cells including neutrophil monocyte eosinophil erythroid and megakaryocyte cell lineages. The amino acid sequence of human GM CSF SEQ ID NO 8 is given in Cantrell et al. 1985 and Lee et al 1985 both incorporated herein by reference.

GM CSF is produced as a 144 amino acid preprotein that is cleaved to yield a mature 127 amino acid protein. The mature protein has two sites for N linked glycosylation. One site is located at the C terminal end of Helix A the second site is in the A B loop. GM CSF has four major alpha helices referred to as helices A D. helix A encompasses amino acids 13 27 helix B encompasses amino acids 55 65 helix C encompasses amino acids 74 86 and helix D encompasses amino acids 103 116.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the amino acids that comprise the N linked glycosylation sites i.e. N27C L28C S29C N37C E38C and T39C. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix amino acids 1 12 distal to the D helix amino acids 117 127 in the A B loop amino acids 28 54 in the B C loop amino acids 66 73 and in the C D loop amino acids 87 102 . This Example also provides cysteine added variants at the first three or last three amino acids in helices A B C and D. Preferred sites for introduction of cysteine substitutions in these regions are A1 P2 A3 R4 S5 P6 S7 P8 S9 T10 Q11 R30 D31 T32 A33 A34 E35 E41 S44 E45 D48 Q50 E51 T53 Q64 G65 R67 G68 S69 L70 T71 K72 K74 G75 T91 E93 T94 S95 A97 T98 T102 I117 D120 E123 V125 Q126 and E127. Variants in which cysteine residues are introduced proximal to the first amino acid of the mature protein i.e. to proximal to A1 or distal to the final amino acid in the mature protein i.e. distal to E127 are provided.

The novel GM CSF derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 2 is a T cell growth factor that is synthesized by activated T cells. The protein stimulates clonal expansion of activated T cells. Human IL 2 is synthesized as a 153 amino acid precursor that is cleaved to yield a 133 amino acid mature protein Tadatsugu et al. 1983 Devos et al. 1983 SEQ ID NO 9 .

The amino acid sequence of IL 2 is set forth in Tadatsugu et al. 1983 Devos et al. 1983 . The mature protein contains three cysteine residues two of which form a disulfide bond. Cysteine 125 of the mature protein is not involved in a disulfide bond. Replacement of cysteine 125 with serine yields an IL 2 mutein with full biological activity Wang et al. 1984 . The protein is O glycosylated at threonine 3 of the mature protein chain. IL 2 has four major alpha helices referred to as helices A D. Helix a encompasses amino acids 1 11 helix B encompasses amino acids 54 73 helix C encompasses amino acids 83 97 and helix d encompasses amino acids 115 133.

This example provides cysteine added variants in the last four positions of the D helix in the region distal to the D helix amino acids 130 133 in the A B loop amino acids 28 53 in the B C loop amino acids 74 82 and in the C D loop amino acids 98 114 . These variants are provided in the context of the natural protein sequence or a variant protein in which the naturally occurring free cysteine residue cysteine 125 has been changed to another amino acid preferably serine or alanine. Variants in which cysteine residues are introduced proximal to the first amino acid i.e. A1 or distal to the final amino acid i.e. T133 of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel IL 2 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 3 is produced by activated T cells and stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of pleuripotent hematopoietic stem cells. The amino acid sequence of human IL 3 SEQ ID NO 10 is given in Yang et al. 1986 Dorssers et al. 1987 and Otsuka et al. 1988 all incorporated herein by reference. The protein contains two cysteine residues and two N linked glycosylation sites. Two alleles have been described resulting in isoforms having serine or proline at amino acid position 8 or the mature protein.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the amino acids that comprise the N linked glycosylation sites. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix distal to the D helix in the A B loop in the B C loop and in the C D loop. Variants in which cysteine residues are introduced proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid in the mature protein also are provided.

The novel IL 3 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 4 is a pleiotropic cytokine that stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of monocytes and T and B cells. IL 4 has been implicated in the process that leads to B cells secreting IgE which is believed to play a role in asthma and atopy. The bioactivity of IL 4 is species specific. IL 4 is synthesized as a 153 amino acid precursor protein that is cleaved to yield a mature protein of 129 amino acids. The amino acid sequence of human IL 4 SEQ ID NO 11 is given in Yokota et al. 1986 which is incorporated herein by reference. The protein contains six cysteine residues and two N linked glycosylation sites. The glycosylation sites are located in the A B and C D loops.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the amino acids that comprise the N linked glycosylation sites. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix distal to the D helix in the A B loop in the B C loop and in the C D loop. Variants in which cysteine residues are introduced proximal to the first amino acid H1 or distal to the final amino acid S129 of the mature protein are provided.

The novel IL 4 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 5 is a differentiation and activation factor for eosinophils. The amino acid sequence of human IL 5 SEQ ID NO 12 is given in Yokota et al. 1987 which is incorporated herein by reference. The mature protein contains 115 amino acids and exists in solution as a disulfide linked homodimer. The protein contains both O linked and N linked glycosylation sites.

This example provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix distal to the D helix in the A B loop in the B C loop and in the C D loop. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid in the mature protein are provided.

The novel IL 5 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 6 stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of many cell types. The amino acid sequence of human IL 6 SEQ ID NO 13 is given in Hirano et al. 1986 which is incorporated herein by reference. IL 6 is synthesized as a 212 amino acid preprotein that is cleaved to generate a 184 amino acid mature protein. The mature protein contains two sites for N linked glycosylation and one site for O glycosylation at T137 T138 T142 or T143.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the amino acids that comprise the N linked glycosylation sites and at the O linked glycosylation site. Also provided are cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix distal to the D helix in the A B loop in the B C loop and in the C D loop. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel IL 6 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 7 stimulates proliferation of immature B cells and acts on mature T cells. The amino acid sequence of human IL 7 SEQ ID NO 14 is given in Goodwin et al. 1989 which is incorporated herein by reference. The protein is synthesized as a 177 amino acid preprotein that is cleaved to yield a 152 amino acid mature protein that contains three sites for N linked glycosylation.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the amino acids that comprise the N linked glycosylation sites. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix distal to the D helix in the A B loop in the B C loop and in the C D loop.

The novel IL 7 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

IL 9 is a pleiotropic cytokine that acts on many cell types in the lymphoid myeloid and mast cell lineages. IL 9 stimulates the proliferation of activated T cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes stimulates proliferation of mast cell precursors and synergizes with erythropoietin in stimulating immature red blood cell precursors. The amino acid sequence of human IL 9 SEQ ID NO 15 is given in Yang et al. 1989 which is incorporated herein by reference. IL 9 is synthesized as a precursor protein of 144 amino acids that is cleaved to yield a mature protein of 126 amino acids. The protein contains four potential N linked glycosylation sites.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the three amino acids that comprise the N linked glycosylation sites. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix distal to the D helix in the A B loop in the B C loop and in the C D loop. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel IL 9 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

The amino acid sequence of human IL 10 SEQ ID NO 16 is given in Vieira et al. 1991 which is incorporated herein by reference. IL 10 is synthesized as a 178 amino acid precursor protein that is cleaved to yield a mature protein of 160 amino acids. IL 10 can function to activate or suppress the immune system. The protein shares structural homology with the interferons i.e. it contains five amphipathic helices. The protein contains one N linked glycosylation site.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the three amino acids comprising the N linked glycosylation site. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix distal to the E helix in the A B loop in the B C loop in the C D loop and in the D E loop. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel IL 10 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 11 is a pleiotropic cytokine that stimulates hematopoiesis lymphopoeisis and acute phase responses. IL 11 shares many biological effects with IL 6. The amino acid sequence of human IL 11 SEQ ID NO 17 is given in Kawashima et al. 1991 and Paul et al. 1990 both incorporated herein by reference. IL 11 is synthesized as a precursor protein of 199 amino acids that is cleaved to yield a mature protein of 178 amino acids. There are no N linked glycosylation sites in the protein. IL 11 has four major alpha helices referred to as helices A D. Relative to the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 17 helix A encompasses amino acids 37 56 helix B encompasses amino acids 92 112 helix C encompasses amino acids 125 147 and helix D encompasses amino acids 173 196. Amino acids 1 21 of SEQ ID NO 17 encompasses the IL 11 signal sequence.

This example provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix amino acids 22 36 of SEQ ID NO 17 distal to the D helix amino acids 197 199 of SEQ ID NO 17 in the A B loop amino acids 57 91 of SEQ ID NO 17 in the B C loop amino acids 113 124 of SEQ ID NO 17 and in the C D loop amino acids 148 172 of SEQ ID NO 17 . This Example also provides cysteine added variants at the first three or last three amino acids in helices A B C and D. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid of the mature protein amino acid 22 of SEQ ID NO 17 or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein amino acid 199 of SEQ ID NO 17 also are provided.

The novel IL 11 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 12 stimulates proliferation and differentiation of NK cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes. IL 12 exists as a heterodimer of a p35 subunit and a p40 subunit. The p35 subunit is a member of the GH supergene family. The amino acid sequence of the p35 subunit SEQ ID NO 18 is given in Gubler et al. 1991 and Wolf et al. 1991 both incorporated herein by reference. p35 is synthesized as a precursor protein of 197 amino acids and is cleaved to yield a mature protein of 175 amino acids. The protein contains 7 cysteine residues and three potential N linked glycosylation sites.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the three amino acids that comprise the three N linked glycosylation sites. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix distal to the D helix in the A B loop in the B C loop and in the C D loop. These variants are provided in the context of the natural protein sequence or a variant protein in which the naturally occurring free cysteine residue has been changed to another amino acid preferably serine or alanine. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel IL 12 p35 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 13 shares many biological properties with IL 4. The amino acid sequence of human IL 13 SEQ ID NO 19 is given in McKenzie et al. 1993 and Minty et al. 1993 both incorporated herein by reference. The protein is synthesized as a 132 amino acid precursor protein that is cleaved to yield a mature protein of 112 amino acids. The mature protein contains 5 cysteine residues and multiple N linked glycosylation sites. A variant in which glutamine at position 78 is deleted due to alternative mRNA splicing has been described McKenzie et al 1993 

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the three amino acids comprising the N linked glycosylation sites. This example also provides cysteine added variants in the region proximal to the A helix distal to the D helix in the A B loop in the B C loop and in the C D loop. These variants are provided in the context of the natural protein sequence or a variant sequence in which the pre existing free cysteine has been changed to another amino acid preferably to alanine or serine. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel IL 13 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

IL 15 stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of T cells NK cells LAK cells and Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes. IL 15 may be useful for treating cancer and viral infections. The sequence of IL 15 SEQ ID NO 20 is given in Anderson et al. 1995 which is incorporated herein by reference. IL 15 contains two N linked glycosylation sites which are located in the C D loop and C terminal end of the D helix. IL 15 encodes a 162 amino acid preprotein that is cleaved to generate a mature 114 amino acid protein. IL 15 contains four major alpha helices referred to as helices A D. Helix A encompasses amino acids 1 15 helix B encompasses amino acids 38 57 helix C encompasses amino acids 65 78 and helix D encompasses amino acids 97 114.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the three amino acids comprising the N linked glycosylation sites in the C D loop or C terminal end of the D helix. This example also provides cysteine added variants proximal to helix A in the A B loop amino acids 16 37 the B C loop amino acids 58 64 the C D loop amino acids 79 96 or distal to helix D. This Example also provides cysteine added variants at the first three or last three amino acids in helices A B C and D. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel IL 15 derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

M CSF regulates the growth differentiation and function of monocytes. The protein is a disulfide linked homodimer. Multiple molecular weight species of M CSF which arise from differential mRNA splicing have been described. The amino acid sequence of human M CSF and its various processed forms are given in Kawasaki et al 1985 Wong et al. 1987 and Cerretti et al 1988 which are incorporated herein by reference. Cysteine added variants can be produced following the general teachings of this application and in accordance with the examples set forth herein.

The novel MCSF derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

Oncostatin M is a multifunctional cytokine that affects the growth and differentiation of many cell types. The amino acid sequence of human oncostatin M SEQ ID NO 21 is given in Malik et al. 1989 which is incorporated herein by reference. Oncostatin M is produced by activated monocytes and T lymphocytes. Oncostatin M is synthesized as a 252 amino acid preprotein that is cleaved sequentially to yield a 227 amino acid protein and then a 196 amino acid protein Linsley et al. 1990 . The mature protein contains O linked glycosylation sites and two N linked glycosylation sites. The protein is O glycosylated at T160 T162 and S165. The mature protein contains five cysteine residues.

This example provides cysteine added variants at either of the three amino acids comprising the N linked glycosylation sites or at the amino acids that comprise the O linked glycosylation sites. This example also provides cysteine added variants proximal to helix A in the A B loop in the B C loop in the C D loop or distal to helix D. These variants are provided in the context of the natural protein sequence or a variant sequence in which the pre existing free cysteine has been changed to another amino acid preferably to alanine or serine. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel Oncostatin M derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

The amino acid sequence of human CNTF SEQ ID NO 22 is given in Lam et al. 1991 which is incorporated herein by reference. CNTF is a 200 amino acid protein that contains no glycosylation sites or signal sequence for secretion. The protein contains one cysteine residue. CNTF functions as a survival factor for nerve cells.

This example provides cysteine added variants proximal to helix A in the A B loop the B C loop the C D loop or distal to helix D. These variants are provided in the context of the natural protein sequence or a variant sequence in which the pre existing free cysteine has been changed to another amino acid preferably to alanine or serine. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel CNTF derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

The amino acid sequence of LIF SEQ ID NO 23 is given in Moreau et al. 1988 and Gough et al. 1988 both incorporated herein by reference. The human gene encodes a 202 amino acid precursor that is cleaved to yield a mature protein of 180 amino acids. The protein contains six cysteine residues all of which participate in disulfide bonds. The protein contains multiple O and N linked glycosylation sites. The crystal structure of the protein was determined by Robinson et al. 1994 . The protein affects the growth and differentiation of many cell types.

This example provides cysteine added variants at any of the three amino acids comprising the N linked glycosylation sites or the O linked glycosylation site. Also provided are cysteine added variants proximal to helix A in the A B loop the B C loop the C D loop or distal to helix D. Variants in which cysteine residues are added proximal to the first amino acid or distal to the final amino acid of the mature protein also are provided.

The novel LIF derived molecules of this example can be formulated and tested for activity essentially as set forth in Examples 1 and 2 substituting however the appropriate assays and other considerations known in the art related to the specific proteins of this example.

Cloning of a cDNA encoding wild type murine GM CSF WT muGM CSF is described in PCT US01 16088 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Wild type muGM CSF was expressed and purified using the following protocol. A fresh saturated overnight culture of strain W3110 transformed with pBBT257 stII muGM CSF which encodes wild type muGM CSF and is described in PCT US01 16088 was inoculated at 0.05 OD Ain LB containing 10 g ml tetracycline. The 400 ml culture was grown in a 2 L baffled shake flask at 28 C. in a gyrotory shaker water bath at 250 rpm. When the culture reached a density of 0.6 OD IPTG was added to a final concentration of 0.5 mM. The induced culture was then incubated overnight for 16 h. The cells were pelleted by centrifugation and frozen at 80 C. The cell pellet was thawed and treated with 5 mL of B PER bacterial protein extraction reagent according to the manufacturer s Pierce Chemical Company protocols. The insoluble portion and the bulk of the muGM CSF protein was recovered by centrifugation and resuspended in B PER. This mixture was treated with lysozyme 200 g mL for 10 min to further disrupt the bacterial cell walls and MgCl 10 mM final and protease free DNAse 2 g ml were added. Insoluble mGM CSF was collected by centrifugation and washed by resuspension in water and recentrifugation to remove most of the solubilized cell debris. For refolding the resulting pellet containing insoluble muGM CSF was dissolved in 10 ml of 8 M urea 25 mM cysteine in 20 mM Tris Base. This mixture was stirred for 30 min at room temperature then diluted into 100 ml of 20 mM Tris 40 M copper sulfate 15 glycerol pH 8.0. This refold mixture was held at 4 C. for 2 days and then centrifuged and loaded onto a 5 ml Q Sepharose HiTrap column Amersham Pharmacia equilibrated in 20 mM Tris pH 8.0 Buffer A . The bound proteins were eluted with a linear salt gradient from 0 35 Buffer B 1M NaCl 20 mM Tris pH 8 . Column fractions were analyzed by non reducing SDS PAGE. muGM CSF eluted at approximately 190 mM NaCl. Fractions containing primarily muGM CSF were pooled.

The Q Sepharose pool was adjusted to 30 ammonium sulfate by slow addition of solid ammonium sulfate. The mixture was warmed to room temperature before being loaded onto a 1 mL Phenyl HP HiTrap column Amersham Pharmacia previously equilibrated with 30 ammonium sulfate in 20 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.5. The muGM CSF was recovered from the column by elution with a reverse salt gradient 30 ammonium sulfate to 0 ammonium sulfate in 20 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.5 . The Phenyl HP column elution profile for GM CSF showed a single major peak eluting at a conductivity of approximately 1.28 mS cm. Column fractions across the peak were analyzed by non reducing SDS PAGE. Fractions containing muGM CSF and no visible contaminants were pooled. Protein concentrations were determined using a MicroBCA kit Pierce Chemical Company .

Construction of the muGM CSF T3C cysteine mutein substitution of cysteine for threonine at position 3 of muGM CSF is described in PCT US01 16088. strain 3110 transformed with pBBT257 stII muGM CSF T3C which encodes the muGM CSF T3C mutein and is described in PCT US01 16088 was grown induced and harvested using the protocols described in Example 24A for wild type muGM CSF. The mutein was refolded and purified using the protocol described for wild type muGM CSF. The mutein eluted from the Q Sepharose column at approximately 220 mM NaCl and from the Phenyl HP column at a conductivity around 2 mS CM. The mutein was recovered predominantly as a monomer with an apparent molecular weight of approximately 14 kDa by non reducing SDS PAGE. Protein concentrations were determined using a MicroBCA kit Pierce Chemical Company .

One milligram of muGM CSF T3C protein prepared as described in Example 24B was diluted 3 fold with 100 mM Tris pH 8 to a final concentration of 0.1 mg ml protein. A 20 fold molar excess of 20 kDa maleimide Polyethylene Glycol 20 kDa mPEG maleimide Shearwater Corporation was added followed by a 15 fold excess of TCEP Pierce Chemical Company . The mixture was allowed to sit at room temperature for 4 hours before being diluted 5 fold with 20 mM Tris pH 8. The PEGylation reaction was next loaded on to a 1 ml Q Sepharose HiTrap column Amersham Pharmacia equilibrated in 20 mM Tris pH 8.0 Buffer A . The bound proteins were eluted with a linear salt gradient from 0 35 Buffer B 1M NaCl 20 mM Tris pH 8 . Column fractions were analyzed by non reducing SDS PAGE. The T3C protein modified with the 20 kDa maleimide PEG eluted at approximately 90 mM NaCl. Fractions containing purified 20 kDa PEG T3C protein were pooled. The T3C protein modified with a 10 kDa mPEG maleimide Shearwater Corporation and a 40 kDa mPEG2 maleimide Shearwater Corporation were prepared using this same protocol.

The purpose of this study was to determine if the PEG T3C GM CSF proteins are effective at stimulating hematopoiesis in a mammal. The study was performed in rats because rats are predictive of the situation in other mammals including humans. Similar types of experiments can be performed with other PEGylated GM CSF cysteine muteins such as those described in Example 7 and in PCT US01 16088 to demonstrate that these proteins are effective at stimulating hematopoiesis. The PEGylated GM CSF cysteine muteins will be effective from the low g kg to the mg kg range with the preferred level being between 25 300 g kg. Male Sprague Dawley rats weighing approximately 350 grams were given a single intravenous dose of wild type muGM CSF or the T3C mutein modified with 10 kDa 20 kDa and 40 kDa maleimide PEGs. All rats were dosed at 100 g kg. The protein solutions were prepared at 100 g ml in phosphate buffered saline. Blood samples 0.4 ml were collected at pre dose 0.25 h 1.5 h 4 h 10 hr 24 h 48 h 72 hr 96 h 120 h and 144 h post injection in an EDTA coated tube. Blood samples were centrifuged and the plasma stored at 80 C. At pre dose 4 10 24 48 72 96 120 and 144 h post injection approximately 0.2 ml of whole EDTA blood was removed prior to centrifugation and placed in an EDTA microtainer tube for submission to a commercial firm for a complete blood cell CBC analysis. Results of the CBC analyses are shown in Tables 1 5. The data show that the PEG T3C GM CSF proteins are effective at stimulating hematopoiesis in a mammal In particular the proteins are effective at increasing blood levels of white blood cells granulocytes neutrophils and eosinophils monocytes and lymphocytes.

The purpose of this study was to determine whether the PEGylated GM CSF cysteine muteins could accelerate recovery from chemotherapy induced neutropenia in a mammal. The study was performed in rats because rats are predictive of neutropenia in other mammals including humans. Similar types of experiments can be performed with other PEGylated GM CSF cysteine muteins such as those described in Example 7 and in PCT US01 16088 to demonstrate that these proteins are effective at accelerating recovery from neutropenia. The PEGylated GM CSF muteins will be effective from the low g kg e.g. at least about 0.1 g kg to the mg kg range e.g. at least about 0.1 mg kg with the preferred level being between 25 300 g kg.

Male Sprague Dawley rats 5 animals per group weighing approximately 180 g were given an intraperitoneal dose of cyclophosphamide CPA 100 mg kg on Day 0. Wild type muGM CSF 20 kDa PEG T3C muGM CSF or 40 kDa PEG T3C muGM CSF prepared as described in Example 25 were then injected subcutaneously into rats at a dose of 100 g kg on Days 1 5. Protein samples were prepared in phosphate buffered saline. As controls different groups of rats were injected with wild type muGM CSF Example 24 or vehicle phosphate buffered saline . There was one group of rats that received no chemotherapy. A blood sample was collected at pre dose Day 0 and on Days 1 11 and 13 from all groups to perform a complete blood cell count CBC analysis. 400 l of whole EDTA blood was removed and placed in an eppendorf tube for submission to an external lab for CBC analysis.

Results of the CBC analysis for white blood cells and neutrophils are shown in Tables 6 and 7. CPA treatment caused a drastic drop in neutrophil and white blood cell counts by Day 1. It was found that the 20 kDa PEG T3C and 40 kDa PEG T3C muGM CSF accelerated the recovery of neutropenia compared to the CPA only treated group and the wild type muGM CSF treated group. Neutrophil counts returned to normal levels day 0 values between Days 5 and 6 for the PEG T3C muGM CSF proteins versus between Day 9 and 10 for the CPA only treated animals and the wild type muGM CSF treated animals White blood cell counts returned to normal levels between Days 6 and 8 for the PEG T3C muGM CSF proteins whereas white blood cell counts in the CPA treated animals and the wild type muGM CSF treated animals had not returned to normal levels day 0 values even by day 13 when the experiment was terminated. Similar types of experiments could be performed using different dosing schedules e.g. a single injection on day 1 every other day injections or every third day injections or weekly injections to determine an optimum dosing schedule for the PEG GM CSF cysteine muteins.

The protein analogues disclosed herein can be used for the known therapeutic uses of the native proteins in essentially the same forms and doses all well known in the art.

While the exemplary preferred embodiments of the present invention are described herein with particularity those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize changes modifications additions and applications other than those specifically described herein and may adapt the preferred embodiments and methods without departing from the spirit of this invention.

