---

title: Supporting compliance in a cloud environment
abstract: Gathering auditable data concerning actions in a cloud computing environment is automated by determining that one or more auditable data items are available associated with a requester and with at least one application program; responsive to determining that data items are available, transmitting a list of the available auditable data items to a requesting cloud client computer; subsequent to transmitting the list, receiving a data request from the cloud client computer for one or more particular auditable data items from the list; preparing the requested particular auditable data items for transmission according to a predetermined format; and transmitting the prepared requested particular auditable data items to the cloud client computer. Optionally, in some embodiments, the requesting cloud client computer may negotiate a data exchange format with the cloud service provider for receipt of the requested auditable information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09110976&OS=09110976&RS=09110976
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09110976
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101015
---
The invention generally relates technologies to collect and maintain auditable data and information in a computing environment which is dynamic and scalable in nature but in which the location and format of the storage of the data is not readily discernable by the customers of that data.

A current trend in Information Technology IT is called Cloud Computing . Customers who utilize cloud environments can easily access services application programs applications and computing infrastructure hosted by other companies. Often this access is on demand on an as needed basis with dynamic scaling of capacities to fit the instantaneous computing needs of the customer.

Cloud Computing has advantages for customers in that they may be able to reduce the IT costs physical space e.g. buildings rooms power air conditioning and compliance support that they are required to maintain internally. Instead these costs are shifted to the one or many hosting companies and the customer then pays only for the computing resources they use.

This is not a total solution to compliance requirements for these customers though. Customers that use cloud based services still must support their established company compliance policies. This normally requires that they keep track of specific customer and internal administrative actions with the cloud based services.

For example cloud service customers may have their own auditing and reporting environments which analyze what their users are doing by correlating data from different applications. The collected and correlated data can be used to produce compliance reports that then are used to track normal operations and to fulfill audit requirements.

To reduce costs of operation these customers often prefer to automate audit processes to the maximum extent possible for monitoring audit readiness throughout the year and not just during official audits. When using cloud services this data is not always readily available however. If it is it is usually not enabled for automation and continuous audit readiness monitoring.

Existing audit automation technologies collect audit and log data on IT systems and send it to centralized servers where the data can be analyzed. These technologies require that data collectors know details about the IT systems and the applications that run on them. For example collector agents need to know where audit data resides and its format.

However in a cloud environment a customer may not know where e.g. which server computer a particular application is running. Consequently customers may not be able to rely on collectors to gather and send back the audit data required for analysis.

Gathering auditable data concerning actions in a cloud computing environment is automated by receiving an auditable data request by a cloud computing server the request may be from an administrator using a cloud computing terminal device or by another cloud service acting as a client determining that one or more auditable data items are available associated with a requester and with at least one application program responsive to determining that data items are available transmitting a list of the available auditable data items to a requesting cloud client computer subsequent to transmitting the list receiving a data request from the cloud client computer for one or more particular auditable data items from the list preparing the requested particular auditable data items for transmission according to a predetermined format and transmitting the prepared requested particular auditable data items to the cloud client computer.

This disclosure describes a technology that enable a customer of cloud computing services to acquire auditable data where the auditable data describes actions and events in the cloud environment which were taken on behalf of or performed for the customer. Embodiments according to the invention include but are not limited to a data acquisition protocol and a standardized format for auditable information.

To acquire the auditable data a customer e.g. a user of cloud computing services queries the cloud provider s asking about what audit data the cloud provider has that is relevant to the cloud customer the cloud provider s identifies any and all auditable data available which is related to actions and services provided for the customer. Then the cloud customer may optionally negotiate an acceptable data exchange format if not pre selected and then may retrieve that data by making audit data requests to the cloud provider s .

Responsive to the audit data requests the cloud provider s retrieves and sends the auditable data to the customer who subsequently may use the audit data from the cloud provider and along with audit data from other entities as input to the customer s own e.g. local non cloud audit and compliance initiatives. The client device may need to translate the received auditable data from the cloud provider into a local format that can be used by existing customer tools. An advantage of this process is that the cloud service user can integrate data from cloud services into their existing automated compliance infrastructure. illustrates such a logical process in which the customer entity an enterprise of some type has its own internal compliance tools . So the enterprise posts individual requests for auditable data to multiple cloud services and received multiple separate blocks of auditable data from those cloud services in return. This information is then integrated in house by the customer s compliance tools processed and a report is generated .

An additional advantage of another available embodiment is that by generalizing cloud audit services and the protocol to request and receive the auditable data a third party cloud service provider can offer compliance cloud services to provide auditing and reporting services for customers using multiple service providers as shown in . In this depiction a third party cloud service may receive a broad request for compliance auditing of all cloud based services which have been performed for a particular customer . This third party cloud service may then request auditable data from multiple cloud services etc. relevant to that customer . The data is received from the cloud services by the third party compliance service instead of being received directly by the customer where it is processed according to compliance policy by the third party service. The third party service may reformat the auditable data received from various cloud service sources into a common or local data format such as a format negotiated between the client device and the cloud service provider. An audit report is then returned to the requesting customer thereby eliminating the need for the customer to have their own compliance auditing process and tools.

According to one aspect of one available embodiment of the present invention a new method of cooperation and interaction between computer application programs to request and retrieve certain auditable data from a cloud computing system is realized where the application programs may be executed on the same computing platform or they may be executed on separate computing platforms interconnected by a suitable communication technology.

In general compliance data according to this embodiment is retrieved using the following phases of a user interface 

According to one embodiment cloud service consumers can only retrieve data from sources to which they are entitled. For example consumers cannot access data from a service for which they have not contracted or used nor can they retrieve data from a source relevant to another entity but not relevant to themselves.

A more detailed example embodiment provided from the perspective of the cloud service host or hosts is shown in . Note that the data can be passed on a secure connection using protocols such as Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS . The protocol shown in can be implemented by automated compliance monitoring systems to request data at scheduled intervals.

Responsive to the cloud service including a computing platform receiving an authentication request from a customer s terminal device a unique token is created or selected and transmitted from the cloud service to the terminal device.

Subsequently the cloud service receives a query request including the token from the terminal device which triggers the cloud service to search for and determine what auditable data it may have stored relevant to the customer and relevant to any services performed for the customer. A query response is transmitted to the customer s terminal device containing a list of any auditable data which is available and preferably filtered to contain only data to which the requesting customer is entitled.

Still subsequently the cloud service receives a data request from the customer s terminal device such as a request for auditable data associated with Application Program A . The cloud service retrieves or produces the requested compliance data e.g. auditable data if the customer is entitled to the requested data and transmits it to the customer s terminal device. Additional data requests for auditable data may be further handled in the same manner such as a second request for auditable data associated with Application Program B and so forth until a terminal condition occurs such as the expiration of the token or all available data has been transmitted.

According to one available embodiment the following details of the foregoing process can be realized for certain advantages.

Query Request. The initial API call is a query asking the service what audit data is available. The query can contain the following parameters query version customer name a unique token obtained from an authentication request a time range of requested data and a timeout of query specifying how long to wait for a response.

Query Response. The response can contain the following information based on the parameters passed as part of the query query response version cloud service Identifier uniquely identifies the cloud service provider query response ID query result expiration time i.e. how long can I use this response ID and a list of applications in that cloud environment that have data available to which the customer is entitled. The information that may be included in the list of applications that have auditable data for the customer may include application name cloud application Identifier that uniquely defines the application and instance of the application the cloud customer is using and from which auditable data is available Unique application ID Unique application instance ID Unique customer ID a list of event categories that are available for each application Security Events Application Events System Events Business Events Compliance Events Security Violation Events and Auditing Events an indication of the quantity of data for each application in the requested time frame matching the input filter e.g. gross size of data or transfer time estimate and a type indicator of the data e.g. Syslog Windows Event log Unix Event log Application specific event log format CBE WEF Generic W7 e.g. data exchange format indicator .

Data Request. The data request can contain the following information request version the unique token obtained during authentication a query response ID returned in the initial query the Application ID which specifies which application data should be returned and a type indicator selecting a type or format of the data if multiple types were available . If a preferred data exchange format is not in the list from the cloud service then optionally the data request can also contain a indication of a requested data exchange format or may contain an indication of selection of a standard format e.g. pre selected which may be converted to a local preferred format by the client device.

Compliance Service Data Format. The cloud service provider retrieves formats and in some instances produces the requested compliance data and transmits it to the customer s terminal device in a format useable by the cloud customer to complete compliance analysis and reporting. In one available embodiment according to the invention compliance data is transmitted in two parts a header part and a content part. The header contains metadata that describes the compliance data and the content part contains the actual compliance data. The format is described in the header so that the consumer s compliance programs can interrogate the header to determine how to process the data appropriately. The header can contain the following data header version data offset provider identifier cloud service an indication of which application program or service the data came from a time range that the data covers an indicator of the Format of the data a total size of the data in bytes or other units the size of each block of data a Number N of blocks of data a sequence number of data Block X of N a checksum and an indicator of the checksum algorithm used to generate the checksum. In some embodiments conversion of the auditable data from the format in which it is received from the cloud sources into a format useful to one or more compliance applications may be required.

Companies set up compliance policies then create compliance initiatives to monitor and audit their environment to prove compliance. In a non cloud environment it is easier to collect compliance data in particular in the form of events from their internal environment because they have physical access to the computers servers clients etc. where the applications were executed or are currently running. In such a non cloud environment administrators can physically go to each computer and configure the computer and the application programs on the computers to record audit data in the form of event logs. Administrators can then gather that event or other audit related data from those computers such as collecting the information on a regular schedule or on demand from an auditor in order to monitor and verify compliance to the company industry and governmental compliance policies.

However in a cloud computing environment either Hybrid or Public or even Private cloud because the cloud environment is owned by a different part of the business it is difficult if not impossible to collect audit data using this traditional process which requires physical and administrator level access to the computers which are running application programs on behalf of a particular customer. Cloud Service users typically do not know where and do not have access to the environments where the cloud services are running.

Embodiments according to the present invention allow cloud service customers to access to their audit data by asking the cloud service for the data they need to demonstrate compliance.

The following examples are provided in order to show how a cloud service customer would ask for audit data from the cloud environment with various embodiments of the invention. This set of examples is not meant to convey the only possible method of using and implementing the invention but instead are meant to illustrate some possible embodiments of the invention.

Scenario 1 Company ABC needs to make sure that they keep track of what their users are doing during business hours to make sure they are using cloud services according to company industry and potentially governmental policies and regulations. In this first example scenario the administrator auditor may need to obtain all events showing user access to Cloud applications.

In this example two data centers in the cloud one located in Kansas City and another located in Houston have reported availability of auditable information. The first server Kansas City has data base record transactions which can be requested and filtered by user date and organization. The second server Houston has supply chain management SCM orders which may have been created deleted viewed or modified and can be filtered by user date quantity and commodity code of the item s ordered. Location of the servers may be of interest because certain policies and regulations may be applied only to certain locations and political or legal jurisdictions.

Scenario 2 Cloud services typically provide administrator interfaces into the cloud environment to allow a customer appointed cloud administrator to manage cloud resources for the other customer cloud service users. In this example the cloud service user wants to keep track of who has been given access to cloud services in the company to check policies like Separation of Duty and others. In this example scenario a query to receive all events showing new users being allowed to access the cloud services may be made and the returned list of available auditable data may take a format similar to that shown in Scenario 1.

Scenario 3 Companies have to comply with various compliance regulations. These regulations may be very specific as to what type of data needs to be audited. For example privacy regulations need to monitor data associated with users and user preferences. For this example scenario a query to receive all events of access to user personal information by employees of Company ABC via cloud services could be made.

Scenario 4 Companies need to feel confident that cloud services have a certain level of security and have security controls in place. This can be achieved by retrieving all events related to security and audit trails such as requesting all events related to cloud administrator maintenance activity on resources that the company uses. In some situations a cloud administrator may request an electronic report rather than raw data during the data exchange interface negotiation phase. Such an electronic report may take the format of a data sheet e.g. Microsoft Excel Lotus 1 2 3 Corel Quattro a word processor document e.g. Microsoft Word Lotus WordPro Corel WordPerfect Adobe Portable Document Format etc. or a generic electronic document format such as Rich Text Format RTF ASCII or ANSI text format and Comma Separated Values CSV .

The following is a more detailed example of an Application Programming Interface API according to the invention. It will be readily recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the art that alternative API s may be realized in accordance with the invention as well and that the following is provided for illustration of at least one embodiment of the invention.

Authentication. In some embodiments security may be required to prevent unauthorized gathering of auditable information from the cloud computing environment. In such embodiments it may be useful to have a user or tenant authorization interface 

Query for Available Auditable Data. The foregoing examples provided illustrations of one possible API for obtaining a list of available auditable data from the appropriately associated servers in the cloud. The following example is more detailed for another possible API realization of this function 

Retrieval of Available Auditable Data. The foregoing examples provided illustrations of one possible API for obtaining available auditable data from the appropriately associated servers in the cloud. The following example is more detailed for another possible API realization of this function 

Regarding computers for executing the logical processes set forth herein it will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that a variety of computers are suitable and will become suitable as memory processing and communications capacities of computers and portable devices increases. illustrates a generalized computing platform such as common and well known computing platforms such as Personal Computers web servers such as an IBM iSeries server and portable devices such as personal digital assistants and smart phones running a popular operating systems such as Microsoft Windows or IBM AIX Palm OS Microsoft Windows Mobile UNIX LINUX Google Android Apple iPhone operating system and others may be employed to execute one or more application programs to accomplish the computerized methods described herein. Whereas these computing platforms and operating systems are well known an openly described in any number of textbooks websites and public open specifications and recommendations diagrams and further details of these computing systems in general without the customized logical processes of the present invention are readily available to those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Many such computing platforms but not all allow for the addition of or installation of application programs which provide specific logical functionality and which allow the computing platform to be specialized in certain manners to perform certain jobs thus rendering the computing platform into a specialized machine. In some closed architectures this functionality is provided by the manufacturer and may not be modifiable by the end user.

The hardware portion of a computing platform typically includes one or more processors accompanied by sometimes specialized co processors or accelerators such as graphics accelerators and by suitable computer readable memory devices RAM ROM disk drives removable memory cards etc. . Depending on the computing platform one or more network interfaces may be provided as well as specialty interfaces for specific applications. If the computing platform is intended to interact with human users it is provided with one or more user interface devices such as display s keyboards pointing devices speakers etc. And each computing platform requires one or more power supplies battery AC mains solar etc. .

It will be understood by those ordinarily skilled in the art that although this disclosure includes a detailed description which relates to cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the present invention are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed.

For convenience the Detailed Description includes the following definitions which have been derived from the Draft NIST Working Definition of Cloud Computing by Peter Mell and Tim Grance dated Oct. 7 2009 which is cited in an IDS filed herewith.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. This cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based e mail . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds .

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes.

Referring now to a schematic of an example of a cloud computing node is shown. Cloud computing node is only one example of a suitable cloud computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention described herein. Regardless cloud computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth hereinabove.

In cloud computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in cloud computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

Referring now to illustrative cloud computing environment is depicted. As shown cloud computing environment comprises one or more cloud computing nodes with which local computing devices used by cloud consumers such as for example personal digital assistant PDA or cellular telephone A desktop computer B laptop computer C and or automobile computer system N may communicate. Nodes may communicate with one another. They may be grouped not shown physically or virtually in one or more networks such as Private Community Public or Hybrid clouds as described hereinabove or a combination thereof. This allows cloud computing environment to offer infrastructure platforms and or software as services for which a cloud consumer does not need to maintain resources on a local computing device. It is understood that the types of computing devices A N shown in are intended to be illustrative only and that computing nodes and cloud computing environment can communicate with any type of computerized device over any type of network and or network addressable connection e.g. using a web browser .

Referring now to a set of functional abstraction layers provided by cloud computing environment is shown. It should be understood in advance that the components layers and functions shown in are intended to be illustrative only and embodiments of the invention are not limited thereto. As depicted the following layers and corresponding functions are provided 

Hardware and software layer includes hardware and software components. Examples of hardware components include mainframes in one example IBM zSeries systems RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer architecture based servers in one example IBM pSeries systems IBM xSeries systems IBM BladeCenter systems storage devices networks and networking components. Examples of software components include network application server software in one example IBM WebSphere application server software and database software in one example IBM DB2 database software. IBM zSeries pSeries xSeries BladeCenter WebSphere and DB2 are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation registered in many jurisdictions worldwide 

Virtualization layer provides an abstraction layer from which the following examples of virtual entities may be provided virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients.

In one example management layer may provide the functions described below. Resource provisioning provides dynamic procurement of computing resources and other resources that are utilized to perform tasks within the cloud computing environment. Metering and Pricing provide cost tracking as resources are utilized within the cloud computing environment and billing or invoicing for consumption of these resources. In one example these resources may comprise application software licenses. Security provides identity verification for cloud consumers and tasks as well as protection for data and other resources. User portal provides access to the cloud computing environment for consumers and system administrators. Service level management provides cloud computing resource allocation and management such that required service levels are met. Service Level Agreement SLA planning and fulfillment provide pre arrangement for and procurement of cloud computing resources for which a future requirement is anticipated in accordance with an SLA.

Workloads layer provides examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include mapping and navigation software development and lifecycle management virtual classroom education delivery data analytics processing transaction processing and supporting compliance with policies and regulations for processes performed in the cloud.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof unless specifically stated otherwise.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

It should also be recognized by those skilled in the art that certain embodiments utilizing a microprocessor executing a logical process may also be realized through customized electronic circuitry performing the same logical device.

It will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that the foregoing example embodiments do not define the extent or scope of the present invention but instead are provided as illustrations of how to make and use at least one embodiment of the invention. The following claims define the extent and scope of at least one invention disclosed herein.

