---

title: Determining session setup latency in a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a given access terminal (AT) detects a request to initiate a Push-to-Talk (PTT) session, and stores first time information indicative of when the request to initiate the PTT session is detected. The given AT sends the request as a message to an access network, which forwards an announce message to announce the PTT session to a plurality of access terminals. At least one of the plurality ATs accepts the announce message to join the PTT session, and the access network sends a message to the given AT granting permission to begin the PTT session. The given AT stores second time information indicative of when the permission is received, and sends PTT latency information based on the first and second time information to the access network, the PTT latency information related to an initial PTT latency of the PTT session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08761823&OS=08761823&RS=08761823
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08761823
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100305
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 163 287 entitled DETERMINING LATENCY IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Mar. 25 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to determining latency in a wireless communications and more particularly to determining an initial Push to Talk PTT latency in a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service operators and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment a given access terminal AT detects a request to initiate a Push to Talk PTT session and stores first time information indicative of when the request to initiate the PTT session is detected. The given AT sends the request as a message to an access network which forwards an announce message to announce the PTT session to a plurality of access terminals. At least one of the plurality ATs accepts the announce message to join the PTT session and the access network sends a message to the given AT granting permission to begin the PTT session. The given AT stores second time information indicative of when the permission is received and sends PTT latency information based on the first and second time information to the access network the PTT latency information related to an initial PTT latency of the PTT session.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art it is typical in PTT communication systems to compile data indicative of PTT latency because initial PTT latency is a critical factor in PTT communications. The conventional manner of gathering initial PTT latency information described below in is by distributing test phones which are access terminals connected to a logging apparatus such as illustrated in that logs the initial PTT latency information.

Accordingly is described below as implemented within the system of with the access terminal of . Referring to the access terminal which is a PTT initiator in is connected to a logging apparatus via a connection . In an example the logging apparatus can be a desktop or laptop computer. The connection that connects the logging apparatus to the access terminal can be any type of well known connection such as USB Bluetooth a proprietary connection etc.

Referring to in the logging apparatus starts logging the initial PTT latencies for PTT calls made by the PTT initiator and thereby monitors the PTT initiator and waits for a user of the PTT initiator to push the PTT button. In the user of the PTT initiator pushes the PTT button to request initiation of a PTT session. The logging apparatus detects the push of the PTT button and stores a first timestamp that approximates the time of the detected PTT button push . The PTT initiator transmits a PTT request to the application server via the RAN . In the application server e.g. a PTT server such as a Qchat server forwards an announce message to the RAN and the RAN transmits the announce message to ATs . . . N e.g. multicast group members that are interested in the announced PTT session .

After a first of ATs . . . N decodes the announce message and determines to accept the PTT call the AT i.e. the first responder transmits an announce acknowledgment ACK to the RAN and the RAN forwards the announce ACK to the application server . Upon receiving a first announce ACK from ATs . . . N the application server sends a floor grant signal to the PTT initiator to inform the user of the PTT initiator that at least one listener has joined the PTT call such that the user can begin speaking.

Upon a detection that the PTT initiator has received the floor grant message or alternatively upon a detection that the PTT initiator has output a tone indicative of the PTT floor grant in response to the floor grant message the logging apparatus stores a second timestamp that approximates the time of the detection calculates the initial PTT latency by taking a difference between the first and second timestamps and adds the calculated initial PTT latency to a PTT latency log maintained for the PTT initiator . Alternatively the calculating step of need not be performed at the logging apparatus . In this case step may merely add the recorded time stamps to the log and the calculation of the initial PTT latency can be offloaded to the application server for example or to whichever entity is responsible for post processing the log file.

The PTT initiator sends a floor grant ACK to the application server to acknowledge receipt of the floor grant message and the user of the PTT initiator begins speaking to one or more of ATs . . . N . The application server receives the audio packets from the PTT initiator and forwards the media e.g. audio data to ATs . . . N . In an example the forwarding of the media in can be performed via unicast or multicast messaging protocols.

In the logging apparatus determines whether to continue to log initial PTT latencies for PTT calls of the PTT initiator . If the logging apparatus or a user of the logging apparatus determines to continue logging the process returns to and the logging apparatus continues logging and waits for a next PTT button push. Accordingly it will be appreciated that initial PTT delay for a series of PTT calls can be captured within a single log session. Otherwise if the logging apparatus determines to cease logging the logging apparatus generates a log file and performs post processing on the log file . For example in the post processing one or more output metrics of interest are generated which may later be uploaded to an entity that can adjust system parameters based on the output metrics e.g. a network management server not shown . For example the post processing can include populating a histogram type counter generating a cumulative distribution function and or any generating other output metric of interest based on the logged latency samples.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art deploying PTT initiators throughout a wireless communications system in different locations to gather data related to initial PTT latency is limited in a number of respects. For example only a relatively small number of PTT initiators coupled with logging apparatuses can be deployed without significant expenses e.g. due to hardware costs personnel costs etc. there is complexity regarding the process for uploading the log files and or post processed output metrics and there is also a time lag between the initial PTT latency being logged at the logging apparatus and the output metrics being collected such that operating or system parameters of the wireless communications system can be adjusted e.g. at a network management server .

As described above initial PTT latency information is conventionally obtained via the deployment of specialized logging equipment which increases the complexity expense and delay associated with obtaining the initial PTT latency information. As will now be described embodiments of the present invention are directed to PTT latency information reporting from any access terminal within the wireless communications system without the need for specialized equipment.

After a first of ATs . . . N decodes the announce message and determines to accept the PTT call the AT i.e. the first responder transmits an announce acknowledgment ACK to the RAN and the RAN forwards the announce ACK to the application server . Upon receiving a first announce ACK from ATs . . . N the application server sends a floor grant signal to the PTT initiator to inform the user of the PTT initiator that at least one listener has joined the PTT call such that the user can begin speaking.

Upon a detection that the PTT initiator has received the floor grant message or alternatively upon a detection that the PTT initiator has output a tone indicative of the PTT floor grant in response to the received floor grant message the PTT initiator stores a second timestamp that approximates the time of the detection . The user of the PTT initiator begins speaking to one or more of ATs . . . N and the application server receives the audio packets from the PTT initiator and forwards the media e.g. audio data to ATs . . . N . In an example the forwarding of the media in can be performed via unicast or multicast messaging protocols.

The PTT initiator sends PTT latency information based on the stored first and second timestamps to the application server . The PTT latency information can be in an example an actual or mapped initial PTT latency value e.g. the second timestamp minus the first timestamp that is calculated at the PTT initiator e.g. see or the first and second timestamps may be sent without a calculation of the PTT latency e.g. see .

In an example the PTT latency information transmitted in may be included within a floor grant ACK transmitted from the PTT initiator to the application server . In this example the PTT latency information can be either i a combination of the first and second timestamps or ii a calculation of the initial PTT latency. Also while the PTT latency information transmission of is illustrated as occurring after the user of the PTT initiator begins speaking in it will be appreciated that the floor grant ACK may be sent relatively soon after receiving the floor grant message and as such may occur before in an example.

In an alternative example the PTT latency information can be transmitted at a later time such as at the end of the PTT call which may permit the PTT latency information to be bundled with additional information e.g. call duration etc. . In another example irrespective of when the PTT latency information is transmitted the PTT latency information may be bundled with additional information such as information specific to the PTT initiator e.g. phone type firmware version installed applications whether the PTT initiator communicates via a wired or wireless connection etc. and or radio information e.g. Serving sector ID channel conditions at the PTT initiator etc. . After the PTT latency information is transmitted in the PTT initiator need not retain the stored first and second timestamps which may then be erased from memory.

In another example if the PTT latency information is transmitted as a calculated latency value the PTT latency information may be encoded with a given mapping protocol to conserve bandwidth. Table 1 below illustrates an example mapping protocol for the transmission of a latency value.

As shown in Table 1 above the PTT latency information can be conveyed to the application server with two bits that correspond to three 3 latency value ranges and a timeout condition in an example. As will be appreciated if more precision is required by the application server the number of bits and latency value ranges can be augmented. Also while not shown in another example if the PTT latency information is transmitted as first and second timestamps each of the timestamps may be encoded with a given mapping protocol to conserve bandwidth e.g. such that a reduced number of bits indicates a given range of time .

After the PTT latency information is transmitted the application server receives the PTT latency information and then generates and sends a PTT latency report to a network management server not shown as will now be described in greater detail with respect to . Alternatively instead of the push implementation wherein the application server initiates report generation and transmission to the network management server a pull implementation can be deployed wherein the application server generates and forwards the report or any other requested information in response to a request from the network management system.

Referring to the PTT initiator calculates the initial PTT latency of the PTT call A and sends the calculated PTT latency to the application server e.g. via a mapping protocol as in Table 1 A. As will be appreciated A and B of correspond to of . In A the application server performs post processing upon the received PTT latency information as in of to generate one or more output metrics of interest e.g. a histogram type counter a cumulative distribution function etc. . The application server then generates a report based on the post processed PTT latency information and transmits the generated report to the network management server A. Again the report transmission of A may alternatively be triggered by a request from the network management server e.g. pull instead of push and need not be independently performed by the application server without such a request in at least one embodiment. The network management server may then adjust system parameters based on the initial PTT latency feedback provided in the generated report.

Further additional information such as serving sector system load phone type access technology can be leveraged by the application server or the network management system to better interpret the system performance. This information can be for example acquired at the application server and passed to the network management system via the report discussed above.

Referring to B the PTT initiator sends the first and second timestamps to the application server B. As will be appreciated B of corresponds to of . In B the application server calculates the PTT latency based on the first and second timestamps and sends generates a report based on the calculated PTT latency without post processing and transmits the generated report to the network management server A. Again the report transmission of A may alternatively be triggered by a request from the network management server e.g. pull instead of push and need not be independently performed by the application server without such a request in at least one embodiment. The network management server may then perform the post processing based on the calculated PTT latency B and if necessary adjust system parameters based on post processing.

Above describes an embodiment where the PTT latency is calculated at the PTT initiator and post processing occurs at the application server whereas describes an embodiment where the PTT latency is calculated at the application server and post processing occurs at the network management server. In another example however the PTT latency can be calculated at the PTT initiator while post processing can occur at the network management server or the PTT latency can be calculated at the application server and post processing may also occur at the application server .

In the description of above one way by which the PTT initiator may transmit PTT latency information in is via the transmission of first and second timestamps which are indicative of the PTT button push of and floor grant message receipt of respectively. In the transmission of the first and second timestamps was described as being included within the transmission of the PTT latency information at which occur sometime after the second timestamp is stored in e.g. in a floor grant ACK message at the end of the PTT call etc. . However the first and second timestamps need not be bundled together in step of .

Accordingly illustrates a modification to the process of wherein the first timestamp is transmitted within the PTT call request message of e.g. corresponding to the PTT call request message of in with the second timestamp being transmitted within the floor grant ACK message of e.g. corresponding to the floor grant ACK message of of . The first and second timestamps may need not be retained after their respective transmission and can be erased from memory at the PTT initiator after transmission. Also while illustrates the first timestamp being transmitted within the PTT call request message and the second timestamp being transmitted within the floor grant ACK message it will be appreciated that the first and second timestamps need not be included within these particular signaling messages in other embodiments of the invention. For example the second timestamp may be transmitted at the end of the PTT call e.g. with additional call information that becomes available later such as PTT call duration etc. the first timestamp may be transmitted within the floor grant ACK etc. Thus the PTT latency information transmission of in is partitioned in and occurs at and collectively.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the initial PTT latency information reporting protocols according to embodiments of the present invention permit any access terminal operating in accordance with those protocols to inform the application server of PTT latencies via signaling messages performed in network contrasted with separate logging apparatuses having to separately upload the logged latency information out of network e.g. over an Internet connection . Also the latency information can in some instances be provided from the PTT initiator to the application server in near real time which increases the responsiveness of the network management server in adapting to the PTT latency feedback. The hardware and personnel costs associated with the process of FIG. A B can likewise be reduced.

Further while above described embodiments are directed to an audio PTT session it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to any type of PTT session or Push to Transfer PTX session wherein non audio data e.g. video text etc. data can also be transferred. Thus PTT session is intended to be interpreted broadly and is not intended to be limited to audio sessions.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

