---

title: Device having memristive memory
abstract: A device () may include a semiconductor layer section () and a memory layer section () disposed above the semiconductor layer section (). The semiconductor layer section () may include a processor () and input/output block (), and the memory layer section () may include memristive memory (). A method of forming such device (), and an apparatus () including such device () are also disclosed. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08809158&OS=08809158&RS=08809158
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08809158
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100312
---
This invention has been made with government support. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A memristor is a fundamental two terminal circuit element that exhibits variable resistance. Its resistance is a function of the quantity and direction of charge flowing through the device. The memristor remembers the last resistance that it had when the flow of charge stopped such that when charge begins flowing again the resistance of the circuit is what it was when it was last active. Among other uses memristors can be used in non volatile random access memory NVRAM arrays.

Where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the drawings to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. Moreover some of the blocks depicted in the drawings may be combined into a single function.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

A system on a chip or SoC integrates components of an electronic system onto a single integrated circuit. Systems on chips may include one or more processors as well as input output blocks and memory.

Reference is now made to which is a conceptual illustration of an integrated circuit device according to embodiments of the invention. Such device may include a SoC and be made as a single die that includes processor memristive memory communications input output I O bus and memory . The blocks included in integrated circuit device are used as examples of blocks that could be used in an integrated circuit device as an embodiment of the invention not every integrated circuit device need include all of the above blocks and alternatively may have more blocks. With such blocks integrated circuit device can be used in many apparatuses including cellular and mobile telephones portable digital assistants PDAs sensing devices and systems small computers e.g. netbooks and other devices where smaller size and lower power consumption may be desired. When housed within such an apparatus integrated circuit device may communicate with other apparatuses and other wired and wireless devices according to embodiments of the invention such as by using processor and communications I O via connection and or antenna to transmit and or receive signals including data . Memristive memory may be non volatile memory made from memristors. Memory may be a computer or processor readable medium or a computer or processor storage medium such as for example a RAM e.g. DRAM or SRAM ROM or a flash memory. Memory may be volatile or non volatile or a combination of the two and although it is shown as a single block in may be realized as multiple blocks. Memory may also be used to store software instructions. Bus may be used to transmit data between and among processor memristive memory communications I O and memory . Communications I O may be used to communicate with external apparatuses not on integrated device such as mobile devices PDAs computers telephones storage devices or displays or monitors etc. and may comprise a USB Ethernet Wi Fi or other communications protocol connection.

Reference is now made to which is a conceptual illustration of a schematic cross section of integrated circuit device . Integrated circuit device may include several sections including CMOS layers section and memristive memory layers section . Between these sections may be a via array section . Sections and may each comprise one or more layers or arrays. Via array section may be used to interconnect CMOS layers section and memristive memory layers section . Via array section may include metallization in addition to vias. CMOS layers section may include transistors and other CMOS semiconductor devices that make up blocks of the SoC. As described with respect to such SoC blocks may include processor communications input output I O and memory . Bus may be realized through all three sections since bus allows the different blocks to communicate with each other.

Memristive memory layers section can include one or more layers of memristive memory connected to CMOS layers section through via array section . Each memristive memory layer may be arranged as a crossbar array shown in which may include parallel strips or lines oriented in one direction and parallel strips or lines oriented in a second direction which directions need not be perpendicular . At the ends of the lines and may be vias and used to connect crossbar array to via array section and CMOS layers section . Other examples of crossbar arrays are shown and described in commonly owned patent application Ser. No. PCT US09 47253 entitled Hierarchical On Chip Memory filed Jun. 12 2009 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. When comprising more than one layer vias and interconnections may appear in and between each layer. Other arrangements of memristive memory layers section are possible as disclosed for example in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 696 361 entitled Interconnection Architecture for Multilayer Circuits filed Jan. 29 2010 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. The arrangements disclosed therein also include crossbar arrays as well as the Grove Architecture and the Thicket Architecture. The memristive memory layers may be interconnected using the Big Bend Fully squashed Big Bend and Partially squashed Big Bend wiring schemes as well as staggered circular shift wrap around duplicated or replicated via arrays as disclosed in that application. Although named in this embodiment memristive memory layers section this section may also include memristive devices that do not act as memory and may include other devices that are not memristive.

Thus FIG. s depiction of integrated circuit device is meant to be conceptual in that CMOS layers section comprising SoC blocks may generally appear on the bottom of a stacked architecture and memristive memory layers section may generally appear over CMOS layers section . Between memory layers section and CMOS layers section may be a via array section although in some embodiments each memristive layer may have associated with it a via array or wiring layer as disclosed in previously cited patent application Ser. No. PCT US09 47253 and thus a separate via array section may not be realized.

Placing memristive memory above the CMOS layers rather than within the same plane allows the memory to be distributed across the die which may result in certain memory cells being located near to their associated SoC blocks situated within the CMOS layers and closer than in a 2D architecture. For example memristive memory that is often accessed by processor could be placed directly over the processor and memristive memory that is often accessed by the I O could be placed directly over the I O block. Locating memory in this manner can save precious memory access time. Distances between blocks and memory in a 2D architecture of tens of microns may be replaced by distances in a 3D architecture of tens of nanometers potentially speeding up access times by two to three orders of magnitude.

Moreover using memristive memory may result in power savings for a number of reasons. Because point A to point B data transfer is responsible for much of the energy consumption in processors and SoCs locating the non volatile memory nearby greatly reduces this consumption. Also memristive memory consumes less energy per bit than other types of memory.

Placing memristive memory above the CMOS layers also avoids the use of wafer bonding used in prior architectures which can be expensive and results in lowered yield. Moreover placing memristive memory above the CMOS layers rather than within the same plane may improve thermal management. In a 2D architecture memory may be placed closely together to save die space. In a 3D architecture if the size of the SoC blocks on the CMOS layers processor I O other memory dictates the size of the die then the memory on the memristive memory layers may not have to be as closely spaced allowing for better heat dissipation. Alternatively if the size of the SoC blocks on the CMOS layers dictates the size of the die more memristive memory may be fabricated than otherwise might be available in a 2D architecture and memory density can be increased.

In addition even some of the wrap around wiring schemes described in previously cited U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 696 361 as increasing the planar footprint of the device may still have space speed and power advantages over the 2D architecture. Other or different benefits may also be achieved.

Reference is now made to which are a conceptual illustration and a flowchart of a method of fabricating integrated circuit device according to embodiments of the invention. In general in operation CMOS layers section may be formed first on a silicon substrate. This section may include the transistors that comprise processor communications I O and other memory as well as interconnections that form bus . In operation via array section may be formed above CMOS layers section . In operation above via array section may then be formed memristive memory layers section which as discussed above may also include vias and other interconnections to connect to SoC blocks on CMOS layers section . The vias and interconnections may be designed such that the memristive memory is distributed across the entire surface of the chip and provides local non volatile memory for each SoC block and or sub block. Memristive memory layers section may be formed using one or more crossbar arrays in each layer. Some methods of forming memristive memory layers section using multi layer crossbar arrays and the various wiring schemes discussed above are disclosed in previously cited U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 696 361.

Reference is now made to which is a conceptual illustration of an apparatus according to embodiments of the invention. Apparatus may be a wireless device such as a cellular or mobile telephone a portable digital assistant PDA or a small computer for example or a non wireless device. Apparatus which may include display may use integrated circuit device to communicate wirelessly or via wires with external apparatuses such as mobile devices PDAs computers telephones storage devices or displays or monitors etc. Some of these communications may use antenna and or connection which are connected to communications I O in integrated circuit device . Advantages of using integrated circuit device in apparatus are to increase the amount of memory and or decrease power usage and heat dissipation. Other embodiments may include sensor connected to communications I O . In that scenario sensor may be used to sense phenomena in the atmosphere and communicate the sensings to integrated circuit device which can process the sensings and output them to other external apparatuses via communications I O and antenna and or connection . Although apparatus is depicted in as a wireless apparatus with a sensor more generally apparatus can be a wireless apparatus with or without a sensor or a non wireless apparatus with or without a sensor.

The above discussion is meant to be illustrative of the principles and various embodiments of the present invention. Numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

