---

title: Seamless upload and ingest of release forms from a mobile device to a digital media system
abstract: Embodiments are directed towards providing a method, a system and a network device for applying a form to a media item in a media library, including enabling, by a mobile device, a contributor of media items to prepare a form, uploading, by the mobile device, the form to a server computer that manages a media library, the media library being a collection of media items and forms associated with one more of the media items, enabling a contributor to upload, from a client computer, different than said mobile device, media items to the media library and enabling, by a client computer that communicates with the server computer, the contributor to associate the form with one or more media items uploaded by the contributor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09286598&OS=09286598&RS=09286598
owner: CORBIS CORPORATION
number: 09286598
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101015
---
Various embodiments generally relate to the uploading of metadata such as forms data from mobile devices to a digital media system and the subsequent processing of the forms data by the digital media system.

Online digital media systems enable customers to search for select price and license digital media items to be downloaded for subsequent use. Uses for digital media include advertising incorporation into print publications such as newspapers and magazines incorporation into online publications such as websites and blogs and personal consumption such as listening to music at home.

Digital media systems DMS enable contributors i.e. providers of digital media items to upload digital media to a central repository for search browsing licensing and downloading for subsequent use by customers of the DMS. Such a DMS typically provides an interface that enables a contributor of digital media to upload digital media to the DMS and to interactively specify attributes or metadata that describe or provide associated information for the digital media. Such metadata may include a model release form or property release form that states the terms under which the model or property shown in a photo or video may be used. The contributor interface is typically an application such as a Web based application that runs on a contributor computer and interacts with one or more server computers that provide DMS services across a network.

In traditional photography and video model releases and property releases are typically paper forms that are signed by a model or property owner or manager. With the advent of computers and now smart mobile devices it is possible to display a release form in electronic format on a digital device and to enable a person to sign the form on an interactive interface using a stylus or by gesturing with his her finger on the display of the mobile device. Further with the advent of network connected mobile devices it is possible to upload an electronic release form to a DMS upon signature thus entirely eliminating paper processing.

Thus it would be advantageous if a model or property owner could sign a release form using a mobile device provided by the photographer or contributor and then upload the data directly to the DMS. Further it would be advantageous if the contributor could add metadata about the release or media items while in the field preferably using the same mobile interface. This would enable seamless integration of electronic release forms uploaded by a contributor using a mobile device to a DMS.

Various embodiments are directed towards integration of electronic forms that are prepared and uploaded using a mobile device into a digital media system. The subject invention enables a contributor of digital media to a digital media system to prepare and upload forms including model and property releases from a mobile device to a digital media system. The contributor can subsequently use a contributor computer to access the release forms and apply them to contributed digital media items. In a preferred embodiment the mobile device runs a native contributor mobile application that communicates with a server computer using standard Web communications while the contributor uses a Web browser running on the contributor computer to communicate with the server computer. Such an approach enables seamless integration of electronic release forms uploaded by a contributor using a mobile device to a DMS.

In one embodiment a mobile device authenticates a contributor and uploads release documents to a digital media licensing server that ingests the model release and makes it available to a contributor using a Web based contributor client application.

Another embodiment is directed toward a contributor mobile application that enables a contributor to create an electronic release form. The release form includes properties and may be signed by a human model or property owner.

Yet another embodiment is directed toward a contributor interface that enables a contributor to view release forms create release forms and apply release forms to contributed digital media items.

One embodiment is directed towards a computer implemented method for applying a form to a media item in a media library including enabling by a mobile device a contributor of media items to prepare a form uploading by the mobile device the form to a server computer that manages a media library the media library being a collection of media items and forms associated with one more of the media items enabling a contributor to upload from a client computer different than said mobile device media items to the media library and enabling by a client computer that communicates with the server computer the contributor to associate the form with one or more media items uploaded by the contributor.

Another embodiment is directed towards a system for applying a form to a media item in a media library including a mobile device for enabling a contributor of media items to the media library to prepare a form and uploading the form to a server computer a server computer for receiving media items from a client computer and storing them in a media library the media library being a collection of media items and forms associated with one more of the media items and receiving the form from the mobile device and storing it in the media library and a contributor computer different from the mobile device for uploading by the contributor media items to the sever computer to be stored in the media library and enabling the contributor to associate the form with one or more media items uploaded by the contributor.

The invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Among other things the invention may be embodied as methods processes systems business methods or devices. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Digital media item digital media or media item means a file or unit of information stored in digital format that can be referred to displayed or played. Digital media includes digital photographs commonly referred to as digital images or simply images digital videos vector art animation files such as Adobe FLASH files sound files and the like. For embodiments discussed herein digital media may comprise content that was originally created digitally or content that was converted from analog to digital format.

Metadata refers to information that describes or provides information supplemental to digital media. Metadata includes inter alia title subject description keywords date created dated edited category license category and price. Metadata may be included within the digital media files or stored separately in a file or a database. Note that metadata refers to information that is intrinsic to the media asset such as its known subject keywords that describe the media content color model media owner media copyright holder file format and other information provided by a content contributor or readily determined from the digital media content. Metadata may also refer to information that has been assigned to the media content such as a model or property release price model or content category. Metadata enables or improves searching browsing filtering matching and selection of media to view listen to watch purchase or license. Metadata is sometimes referred to as tags.

Applying means a process of adding or associating metadata including release forms to one or more digital media items. This process is also commonly referred to as tagging.

Digital media library means a collection of digital media items provided by a digital media system that are accessed using a client computer. The digital media system described herein with reference to provides such a digital media library. Some embodiments of a digital media library are also referred to as a stock media library stock photo library or stock video library or clip library.

Contributor means an person that provides digital media items to a digital media system for inclusion in a digital media library. A contributor may be an owner of the digital media items or a representative of an entity that owns the digital media items.

Customer means an individual that uses a mobile device PC or other electronic device capable of accessing a website or other service available across a network to search for and potentially license or purchase digital media offered by a DMS.

Some of the examples provided herein are constrained to digital media libraries that include only digital images or only digital images and digital video clips. However the methods processes and systems described herein can be applied to digital media libraries that include any type of digital media or content including inter alia images music and sound video movies graphics web pages and text documents.

Contributor may also use a contributor client application that runs in contributor computer to enter data into forms. Contributor client application also enables contributor to enter and edit metadata for contributed digital media items. Contributor client application enables contributor to upload digital media items from contributor computer to DMLS . DMLS stores digital media and metadata including forms and other information provided by contributor in a digital media library . Further contributor client application enables contributor to access additional services provided by DMLS as described below with reference to . Contributor client application further enables contributor to select contributed digital media items that are ready to be reviewed and or published.

In one embodiment when contributor identifies contributed media items that are ready for review to DMLS the media items are provided in a reviewer queue to a human reviewer . Reviewer may be a single individual or a plurality of reviewers working cooperatively. Reviewer uses a reviewer client application that runs on a reviewer computer to review contributed media items. Reviewer client application accesses contributed media items forms and other metadata from media library across network as part of the review process. Typically the review process includes editing metadata and providing comments ratings and other review information.

When reviewer completes reviewing contributed media items he she indicates to DMLS using reviewer client application media items that have been reviewed and which can be published i.e. made available to customers. The indicated media items are published and can then be accessed from media library by a customer .

Typically customer uses a customer client application running in a customer customer computer to access digital media items and their corresponding metadata from media library across network . Customer client application enables customer to search media library for media items browse media library select and license media items and download media items for subsequent use.

DMS may additionally include an administrative user an administrative computer and an administrative computer application.

A menu enables contributor to select the various functions provided by contributor mobile application . Contributor uses menu to switch between functions. In one embodiment the functions available from menu include the ability to create upload print edit and delete release forms including model and property release forms to create edit and delete records of shoots to create edit and delete records of models and edit settings.

After selecting a release form contributor mobile application displays the corresponding form with available data filled in as illustrated in below. If contributor decides not to select a release he she uses a cancel control to cancel the operation.

Exemplary create release interface displays a model release form that includes a text portion and an entry field portion . The model release form may also include a thumbnail of the model or property to which the release applies. Portion includes a description of the shoot a field in which the photographer i.e. contributor signs his her name a field in which the model signs his her name and additional information about the model including his her name . The additional information may also include model s contact information. Create release interface includes a signature control that enables a model or contributor to sign the model release form. Signature may be accomplished in a variety of ways e.g. using a stylus gesturing with a finger on the display of contributor mobile device providing a verified electronic signature or by simply typing the model s name.

When contributor finishes preparing the model release he she clicks a done control to initiate uploading of the form to DMLS . Contributor mobile application uses settings established using settings interface to authenticate contributor if necessary and then to upload the model release form. Thus no further contributor intervention is required. Essentially from the perspective of contributor sign in i.e. authentication upload and ingest by DMLS is performed with a single click of done control .

In some embodiments only the model or property owner manager needs to sign the form. While the discussion of relates to the creation and uploading of a model release by a contributor the invention may include other types of forms or data that is prepared and uploaded to DMLS . For example the method may be extended to the use of property release forms. In this case contributor mobile device provides an interface comparable to create model interface that enables contributor to create a property record and an interface comparable to create release interface that enables contributor to create a property release form. Further it may be appreciated that the method may be practiced where no signature is required. It may further be appreciated that the method may be easily modified to upload digital media items and other metadata to DMLS .

Using a release selector contributor selects the type of release form. In one embodiment the available selections are model release and property release. A set of model information fields enable contributor to provide information about the model. In a preferred embodiment model information fields include a model name field an age pull down menu that allows contributor to select from a list of age ranges and an ethnicity pull down menu that enables contributor to select from a list of ethnicities.

A set of release information fields enable contributor to provide information about the release form to be attached or referenced. In a preferred embodiment release information fields include a reference field and a path that specifies the location of the release file. Typically if the release form was uploaded by contributor mobile application the reference field will be automatically filled with the name of the shoot and date. Contributor may replace or augment any automatically provided reference information. In a preferred embodiment the release file path may be selected by browsing the file system.

Upon completion of the release form at step contributor mobile application sends the contributor sign in information to DMLS . At step DMLS authenticates contributor by comparing the received sign in data with previously stored sign in data for contributor . As part of authentication DMLS sends a message in response to contributor mobile application indicating that contributor has been successfully authenticated.

At step upon successful authentication contributor mobile application uploads the completed release form to DMLS . At step DMLS receives the release and ingests it. Ingest refers to the process of adding the the release to media library such that it is available to contributor using at least contributor client application . Following ingest at step contributor can access the release using apply release interface .

At step contributor uploads one or more digital media items to DMLS . In response DMLS ingests the digital media items which are then available for further review and use by contributor using contributor client application . Steps and which relate to uploading and ingest of digital media items are logically but not temporally related to steps . Thus contributor may upload media items to DMLS prior to after or even during the period when he she is preparing and uploading releases to DMLS . For example contributor may prepare a model release using contributor mobile device during a shoot while working in a location different from his her office and upload the model release at the same time contributor may be using a laptop computer i.e. contributor computer to upload media items to DMLS .

At step contributor uses an interface such as apply release interface provided by contributor client application to apply a release form to one or more media items. Typically contributor first selects one or more media items using an interface provided by contributor client application and then using apply release interface selects a release from list of releases and then selects the apply control to apply the release to the selected media items. This step associates the release form with the selected media items. In other words step adds the release form as metadata for the selected media items.

When contributor finishes preparing media items for example by adding additional metadata such as release forms at step contributor submits one or more selected media items. In one embodiment the submitted media items are provided to a review process in which reviewers review the media items and their associated metadata including any previously applied releases. In this embodiment one or more human reviewers make the decision as to when to publish the media items i.e. make them available to customers of DMS . One such review process is described is U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 143 703 Filed Jun. 20 2008 entitled Providing a Rating for Digital Media Based On Reviews And Customer Behavior by Adam Brotman et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. In another embodiment there is no review process and submission and media items submitted by contributor are immediately published and available to customers of DMS .

It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the processor to provide steps for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also cause at least some of the operational steps shown in the blocks of the flowchart to be performed in parallel. Moreover some of the steps may also be performed across more than one processor such as might arise in a multi processor computer system. In addition one or more blocks or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration may also be performed concurrently with other blocks or combinations of blocks or even in a different sequence than illustrated without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart illustration support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Generally client devices include any computing devices that are capable of receiving and sending messages over a network such as network or wireless network including personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs or the like. Client devices also include mobile devices such as mobile telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices personal digital assistants PDAs handheld computers laptop computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices or the like.

Specifically contributor mobile device is an embodiment of client devices which connect to wireless network . And contributor computer reviewer computer and customer computer are embodiments of client devices each of which may connect to either or both of wireless network or network . Network is an embodiment of wireless network network or a combination of both. Further DMLS is an embodiment of DMLS .

Client devices typically range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a smart phone may be Web enabled have a touch sensitive display screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed.

The term touch sensitive display screen is intended to encompass a range of technologies used in products that enable a person to make selections enter text and information and sign or draw on a display screen using a finger or stylus. Thus the term touch sensive display screen includes inter alia touch sensitive heat sensitive and proximity type technologies.

A Web enabled client device can communicate across the Web. It may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages or the like. The browser application may receive and display graphics text multimedia or the like employing a web based language including a wireless application protocol messages WAP or the like.

Client devices may include client application programs that send and receive content to from other computing devices. Examples of application programs include calendars browsers and email clients and so forth. Client devices may be configured to include an application program that enables a contributor to complete a model or property release and upload the release to a digital media licensing server such as DMLS .

Client devices may include or operate in conjunction with a camera that can take digital photographs and or digital videos which are subsequently stored on the client device.

Wireless network is configured to couple client devices with network . Wireless network may include any of a variety of wireless networks that provide a connection for client devices . Such networks may include mesh networks wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks or the like. Wireless network may further include network devices such as gateways routers or the like. In essence wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel between client devices and another computing device network or the like.

Network is configured to couple DMLS and client device with other computing devices including through wireless network to client devices . Network can include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port or any combination thereof.

DMLS represents a network computing device that is configured to enable a contributor to upload media items and releases a reviewer to review media items and metadata and a customer to search a digital media library or database select digital media items add the selected items to an electronic cart and purchase the selected items or licenses to the selected items. Devices that may operate as DMLS include but are not limited to personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers network appliances and the like.

Although DMLS is illustrated as a distinct network device the invention is not so limited. For example a plurality of network devices may be configured to perform the functions of DMLS . One such configuration is a server farm that includes multiple server computers operating cooperatively each performing some of DMLS server functions. One embodiment of the software modules that perform DMLS server functions is described with reference to below.

DMLS is capable of running application programs applications . Applications that may be run by DMLS include transcoders database programs customizable user interface programs security applications encryption programs VPN programs web servers applications servers account management systems and so forth. Applications run by DMLS may also include a release service a contributor interface a reviewer interface and a customer interface and a database manager such as those described below in conjunction with .

DMLS typically provides web services which include any of a variety of network services that are configured to provide content including messages over a network to another computing device. Thus web services include for example an application server a web server a messaging server a File Transfer Protocol FTP server a database server a content server or the like. Web services may provide the content including messages over the network using any of a variety of formats including but not limited to WAP HDML WML SGML HTML XML cHTML xHTML JSON SOAP or the like. Web services may also include server side scripting languages such as PHP Python and Java servlets. Web services may also include the server side of the Ajax web development method that enables a server to asynchronously respond to Ajax requests.

DMLS includes data storage for storing program code and data. Data storage may include virtually any mechanism usable for storing and managing data including but not limited to a file a folder a document a web page or an application such as a database digital media including digital images and digital video clips and the like.

Data storage may further represent a plurality of different data stores. For example data storage may represent a media library a contributor database a customer database a license database and a price database such as those described below in conjunction with . Further data storage may also include network storage or cloud storage in which the physical storage media is accessed across a network.

Contributor interacts with contributor mobile device via a contributor mobile application . In one embodiment contributor mobile device is a smart phone with a processor and data storage that runs a mobile operating system OS . Typically contributor downloads a native contributor mobile application from a marketplace or online store that provides such native applications that are are developed for and run in conjunction with mobile OS . Examples of commercially available contributor mobile devices and their respective mobile OS are APPLE COMPUTER s IPHONE which uses APPLE COMPUTER s IPHONE OS iOS and the MOTOROLA DROID which runs the Google ANDROID operating system ANDROID . Contributor mobile application executes under mobile OS .

As discussed above with reference to contributor interacts with contributor computer via contributor client application . In a preferred embodiment contributor client application is a Web application that is it is written using standard Web programming languages such as HTML JAVASCRIPT and JAVA and is executed by a browser that runs in contributor computer .

Browser is typically a standard commercially available browser such as MOZILLA FIREFOX or MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER. Alternatively it may also be a client application configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like across a network.

In one embodiment browser interacts with a client side scripting engine that executes client side scripting instructions written in a client side scripting or programming language such as JAVASCRIPT from ORACLE CORPORATION of Redwood Shores Calif. the Java open source programming language ACTIVEX from the MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. and the like. In one embodiment browser is configured to use the Ajax asynchronous JavaScript and XML or JSON web development techniques that are used to create interactive web applications. Rather than referring to a specific standard or product the term Ajax represents a broad group of web technologies that are used to implement a Web application that communicates with a server in the background without interfering with the current state of a web page. Ajax enables browsers to asynchronously request incremental pieces of information from the server instead of whole pages. Ajax typically works with XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON and a client side scripting language such as JavaScript or ActiveX.

In one embodiment when contributor accesses DMLS using contributor client application DMLS downloads web pages in HTML format to browser for viewing and interactive use. To perform some of the advanced client side interactive functions described with respect to the web pages may include client side scripting instructions. Typically such client side scripting instructions are embedded in HTML web pages and are interpreted or executed by client side scripting engine to perform functions not available through HTML commands such as advanced graphics database access and computations.

In one embodiment JavaScript is used as a client side scripting language. JavaScript is supported by most commercial browsers including MOZILLA FIREFOX MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER AND APPLE SAFARI. For purposes of specificity all of the client side capabilities described herein can be accomplished using browser in conjunction with JavaScript version 1.5 or greater. A description of JavaScript version 1.5 may be found in the book by David Flanagan August 2006 published by O Reilly Media Inc. which is incorporated herein by reference. In one embodiment JavaScript commands are embedded inside HTML files and are processed by a JavaScript engine which is an embodiment of client side scripting engine .

Contributor mobile application issues hypertext transfer protocol HTTP requests to and receives HTTP responses from an application server running in DMLS by making application programming interface API calls to mobile OS . In contrast contributor client application issues HTTP requests and receives HTTP responses from application server via browser .

Application server receives the HTTP requests and invokes the appropriate digital media licensing server software module to process the request. Application server may be a commercially available application server that includes a web server that accepts and processes HTTP requests transmits HTTP responses back along with optional data contents which may be web pages such as HTML documents and linked objects images or the like . In addition contributor mobile application or browser may use Ajax to issue requests for XML or JSON coded information that is delivered asynchronously by application server . Henceforth the term request message will refer to a message sent by either contributor mobile application or browser using HTTP Ajax or other client server communications method to DMLS . And a response message will refer to a message sent in response typically using the same communications method by application server running in DMLS .

Application server establishes and manages contributor reviewer and customer sessions. Typically application server assigns each session a unique session id. A session lasts from the time a user i.e. a contributor reviewer or customer logs in or accesses DMLS until the time the user logs out or stops interacting with DMLS for a specified period of time. In addition application server manages server applications and provides database connectivity.

Upon request by browser application server provides the HTML JavaScript and other browser executable code that make up contributor client application .

DMLS includes a release service a contributor interface a reviewer interface and a customer interface . DMLS further includes five databases a media library a contributor database a customer database a license database and a price database . It may be appreciated that each of the abovementioned databases may be implemented as one or more computer files spread across one or more physical storage mechanisms. In one embodiment each of the abovementioned databases is implemented as one or more relational databases and is accessed using the structured query language SQL .

Each of release service contributor interface reviewer interface and customer interface may include a commercial database management system DBMS to access and search for data and objects that reside in the database. In a preferred embodiment the DBMS is a relational DBMS RDBMS such as ORACLE from the Oracle Corporation SQL Server from the Microsoft Corporation or the like. However other database managers may also be used. In another embodiment a single RDBMS is shared by one or more of release service contributor interface reviewer interface and customer interface . In addition to a RDBMS a standard data extraction tool may be included that simplifies access to relational databases enabling a developer to express queries visually or in a simplified manner rather than using structured query language SQL .

Release service performs authentication of contributor and accepts and processes release forms uploaded by contributor mobile application . To perform authentication at step of contributor mobile application sends an authentication request message to DMLS . Application server receives the authentication request and provides it to release service which authenticates contributor by verifying the contributor sign in information included in the request message. Then at step of application server sends an authentication response message to contributor mobile application indicating that contributor was successfully authenticated. Of course it is also possible that contributor is not successfully authenticated for example in the case that contributor provided the wrong username or password when establishing settings. In that case contributor mobile application displays a message to contributor requesting that he she provide new valid sign in information. Release service may also accept requests to process other submissions beyond release requests from contributor mobile application . For example it may accept submissions of media items or other types of data such as metadata a request to change sign in information and the like.

In one embodiment a seamless web authentication method is performed between contributor mobile device and DMLS that uses web browser cookies. This is same method commonly used between web interfaces such as contributor client application reviewer interface and customer interface and a web server such as DMLS . Using the seamless web authentication method contributor mobile application effectively appears to DMLS as a web browser. In the seamless web authentication method release service receives a standard authentication request that includes contributor sign in data. After determining that the name and password are valid release service sends a response message that includes a cookie to contributor mobile application . A cookie is a small amount of text that accompanies a message. The cookie contains persistent data typically encrypted that is stored by a browser for later reference. In the case of the seamless Web authentication the cookie typically includes the name of the user that has been successfully authenticated and an expiration date and time. Until the expiration date and time has passed no further authentication is required. Using APIs provided by mobile OS contributor mobile application may access the cookie to determine whether contributor needs to be authenticated.

While the authentication method employed between DMLS and contributor mobile application is invisible to contributor the use of the seamless web authentication method enables mobile devices of any type from any vendor to communicate seamlessly to DMLS .

Release service receives and processes release request messages from contributor mobile application . Each release request includes one or more release forms from contributor . Release service stores each release form in media library along with accompanying metadata such as shoot title and description name and contact information for the model or property. Release service stores the release form and any metadata in media library . After processing a release request release service sends a response message to contributor mobile application indicating success or failure. After successfully processing a release request the corresponding release form will appear in apply release interface the next time that contributor uses the interface.

Contributor interface interacts with contributor client application i.e. it performs the back end server processing. Contributor interface responds to requests to provide thumbnails of media items metadata and release data to contributor client application . Contributor interface also enables contributor to apply releases to media items add edit and delete metadata and media items.

Reviewer interface responds to requests from reviewer client application i.e. it performs the back end server processing. Reviewer interface satisfies requests to provide summary data for media items including thumbnails and review forms and stores review information. Reviewer interface manages a queue of media items to be reviewed and provides them to reviewer via reviewer client application . Reviewer interface updates the reviewer edited metadata in media library .

Customer interface responds to requests from customer client application i.e. it performs the back end server processing. Customer interface satisfies requests from customer client application to search browse select and license and download digital media items in media library . Customer interface responds to requests for license information for one or more media assets by querying a license database for license information regarding the media items referenced in the request. Such requests for license information include inter alia license options availability for licensing and licenses in force. Customer interface responds to requests for prices. Customer interface obtains price information for one or more media items from price database . In one embodiment customer interface can obtain a price in either or both of a cash or credits denominations. In one embodiment customer interface manages an electronic cart for one or more customers. Customer interface responds to request messages to update information about electronic carts that it manages.

Media library stores digital media items and metadata for each media item including releases. Typically digital media items and metadata are stored and retrieved using a database management system. In one embodiment each media item is described by a database record that includes fields such as those listed and described in Table 1 below 

In another embodiment the fields listed in Table 1 are stored as a relational table using a relational database management system where the Unique ID field serves as the key. In one embodiment digital media items such as digital images and digital video clips are stored outside the relational database s that implement media library e.g. in the local file system or in remotely accessible network storage and a unique identifier which references the media item is stored inside the database. In another embodiment digital media items such as digital images and digital video clips are stored as binary large objects BLOBS within the relational database.

Contributor database stores a contributor record for each contributor to DMS such as contributor . Contributor database may also include includes information about models properties and shoots and other information related to a contributor. A contributor record includes the contributor s name contact information and a unique identifier.

Customer database stores a customer record for each registered customer. A customer record includes inter alia name contact information and means of payment information. Name and contact information is typically obtained during registration. Typically a customer registers with DMS prior to completing his her first purchase.

License database stores information necessary to enable customer to license media items. License database also stores any special information about individual media items. For example a media item such as a photo of a famous actor may be prohibited from being used for an advertisement for an alcoholic beverage. Or for example a media item may have special pricing such that it doesn t fit into a price tier.

Price database stores price information for individual media items and or price information for price tiers to which individual media items are assigned.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

