---

title: Dampening device
abstract: An assembly for dampening vibration movement between a cylinder and a concentric duct, where the cylinder is positioned radially inside the duct, includes a damper attached to the duct. The damper includes a housing attached to the duct, a contact member positioned at least partially inside the housing and having a contact surface adjacent an outer surface of the cylinder, and a cap threadedly engaged with the housing for applying a load on the contact member in a direction toward the cylinder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08931601&OS=08931601&RS=08931601
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08931601
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101105
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. N0019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy.

The present invention relates to dampers and in particular to dampers for rotatable bodies. Various components for machines such as fans gas turbine engines and other systems used on aircraft or elsewhere can experience undesirable vibrations. A particular component can have one or vibrating more modes or harmonics that would be excited by conditions the component is expected to experience during operation. Such vibration can undesirably cause the vibrating component or other components in the machine to operate incorrectly or even fail completely.

Various techniques can be used to dampen modal vibrations. However in applications where space is limited and adding mass is undesirable it can be difficult to suitably dampen the vibrations within the space limitations without hindering performance of the vibrating component in particular or of the machine in general. This problem can be especially difficult when the vibrating component is a body that rotates such as a cylinder.

One embodiment of the present invention includes an assembly for dampening vibration movement between a cylinder and a concentric duct. The cylinder is positioned radially inside the duct and a damper is attached to the duct. The damper includes a housing attached to the duct a contact member positioned at least partially inside the housing and having a contact surface adjacent an outer surface of the cylinder and a cap threadedly engaged with the housing for applying a load on the contact member in a direction toward the cylinder.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a method for damping vibrations of a rotatable cylinder. The method includes positioning a cylinder inside and rotatable with respect to a duct positioning a damper housing in a hole in the duct attaching the damper housing to the duct positioning a damper contact member at least partially inside the damper housing and loading the damper contact member to provide a vibration damping force against an outer surface of the cylinder.

In the illustrated embodiment housing has tabs extending from its substantially cylindrical outer surface . Tabs are positioned in slots of plate to hold housing rigid with respect to duct . Plate is attached to outer surface of duct to hold housing in place. In alternative embodiments plate and or housing can be integral with duct . for example shows an embodiment in which plate is integrally formed with duct .

Housing has inner surface which is also substantially cylindrical. Slots extend along a length of inner surface from open end A to closed end B. Roller shown in partial cross section in is a contact member with a substantially cylindrical contact surface and substantially cylindrical pins extending from each end. Roller is positioned inside housing with pins positioned in slots to align a rotational axis of roller to be substantially parallel with a rotational axis of cylinder . Contact surface of roller extends outside of housing to contact outer surface of cylinder . Thus roller can roll as cylinder rotates in either direction. Roller can be sized to be large enough to limit contact stresses between contact surface and outer surface while still small enough to allow damper to fit in a location with relatively small space limitations. Carriage is also positioned inside housing with posts positioned in slots . Posts are in contact with pins . Cap is threadedly engaged with inner surface of housing for applying a load to carriage which is transmitted to roller in a direction toward cylinder . Cap has notches . A tool not shown can be inserted into notches to turn cap with respect to housing . As cap is turned it is threaded into housing which pushes carriage against roller in a direction away from cap and toward cylinder . Thus turning cap adjusts an amount of force between contact surface of roller and outer surface of cylinder . Damper can be preloaded with a certain force chosen so as to dampen radial deflections from modal vibrations that are expected during operation. Actual forces experienced by damper during modal vibration can be greater and less than the preload force. Duct can be stiff yet still flexible to allow damper to move with and dampen oscillations of cylinder . Duct can thus act as a spring in combination with damper . One or more dampers can be positioned around cylinder to dampen expected modal vibrations and reduce radial deflections caused by those vibrations.

Carriage has top surface sized to contact bottom surface of cap . Carriage and cap each have substantially hollow interiors to reduce their respective masses. The overall shape of carriage is designed to have a relatively small mass while still transmitting load from cap to pins of roller in a suitable manner. In alternative embodiments cap and carriage can have different shapes suitable for a particular application.

Carriage has curved partial bushings at ends of each of its posts . When assembled partial bushings are adjacent pins of roller . Partial bushings and or pins can have a coating with a relatively low coefficient of friction. Such a coating can be applied to contact surface of roller slots of housing and or other surfaces as well.

Spring is positioned in housing between cap and carriage . In the illustrated embodiment spring is a Belleville washer spring with first and second Belleville washers A and B. Each Belleville washer A and B has a substantially frusto conical shape with inner edges A and B and outer edges A and B respectively. Outer edge A contacts bottom surface of cap . Inner edges A and B contact each other. Outer edge B contacts top surface of carriage . Spring transmits load from cap to carriage thus biasing roller in a direction toward cylinder shown in . Pins of roller can slide within the slots of housing when spring compresses. Spring can be stiff yet still flexible to allow carriage and roller to move with and dampen oscillations of cylinder . In other embodiments spring can be another type of spring suitable for the application.

Carriage transmits load from cap and spring to contact member biasing contact member in a direction toward cylinder shown in . Outer edge A of spring contacts bottom surface of cap . Outer edge B of spring contacts top surface of carriage . Instead of using partial bushings shown in carriage has surface in contact with and pushing against contact pad . Spring transmits load from cap to carriage thus biasing contact member in a direction toward cylinder shown in . Spring can be stiff yet still flexible to allow carriage and contact member to move with and dampen oscillations of cylinder . In other embodiments spring can be another type of spring suitable for the application.

Carriage and contact member move together as cylinder vibrates. In this embodiment carriage acts as a spacer between spring and contact member . In alternative embodiment one or more additional spacers can be added between various components. In the illustrated embodiment carriage and contact member are separate pieces. In alternative embodiments carriage can be integrally formed with contact member . Housing is substantially similar to housing shown in except housing has shoulders for containing carriage inside housing .

Dampers and can provide a reliable solution to dampen modal vibrations of cylinder yet still allow cylinder to rotate with respect to duct . Dampers and use the elasticity of duct and or one of springs or to provide the damping force as cylinder vibrates. Cylinder can rotate because dampers and have a contact member that either rolls as with rollers and or slides as with contact member as cylinder rotates. Dampers and are compact so as to require relatively little space and have relatively little mass. This benefits applications where space is a premium and low mass is desirable.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. For example features of one embodiment such as a flange spring etc. can be combined with features of another embodiment to create a damper suitable for a particular application. Moreover the shape and size of each component can be varied to suit a particular application.

