---

title: Systems and methods for automated content generation
abstract: A content generation service is described that generates content for electronic documents in different languages based upon templates. The templates may include paragraph templates composed of sentence types including sentence templates. The sentence templates may further include variables having corresponding attributes. Each of the paragraph templates, sentence templates, and attributes may be hierarchically organized. The content generation service may obtain data describing an item of interest, such as a travel item. The obtained data may further specify a document language, section and paragraph for which content is to be generated. Content is generated for variables in hierarchical order, with higher ranked paragraphs considered first. Within the highest ranked paragraph, a sentence type is selected and the variables within the highest ranked sentence template of the sentence type are considered. Sentence templates which contain attributes matched by the data obtained for the item of interest are added to the generated document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08457948&OS=08457948&RS=08457948
owner: Expedia, Inc.
number: 08457948
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100513
---
Computing devices and computing networks are frequently employed by users to obtain information and to make purchases. For example a user may search for review and share information regarding items of interest from a network based information service using his or her personal computing device. In another example a user may purchase an item of interest from a network based retailer using his or her personal computing device. Furthermore network based services may enable a user to perform these task in the comfort of their home or office and at his or her own pace and convenience.

To accommodate users from a variety of countries network based service providers often provide their respective network based services in a variety of languages. However translating the content within a network based service into a variety of languages may be time consuming and costly. Furthermore as the content is updated additional translations may be required incurring further costs. Therefore even when content is available in certain languages it may be difficult for network based services to maintain this content in other desired languages.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to generating content regarding an item of interest and storing the generated content for later recall and use for example by a network based service. To this end a content generation service is provided that generates content for electronic documents in different languages based upon templates. The item of interest may be anything a person can perceive or imagine and may include but is not limited to objects places and events. In certain embodiments the item of interest may include travel items such as flights lodging ground transportation and activities.

As described in greater detail below the content generation service may employ templates to automatically generate content for an item of interest. The templates may be organized on the level of paragraphs sentence types sentences and variables. Each paragraph of a document may be generated by consideration of one or more paragraph templates. Each of the paragraph templates may include one or more sentence types that include one or more sentence templates. The sentence templates may further include one or more variables that describe the item of interest. Variables may additionally include one or more attributes. Each of the paragraph templates sentence templates and attributes may be respectively hierarchically ranked.

Selected sentence types may be further designated as required. A required sentence type is considered mandatory for inclusion in its respective paragraph template. If content is not generated for a required sentence type the paragraph template in which the required sentence type is found will be omitted from the generated content irrespective of any other content generated for the paragraph template.

In certain embodiments only one of the possible paragraph templates and sentence templates may be employed in their respective paragraph and sentence type for content generation. Which of the paragraph and sentence templates is employed to generate content regarding an item of interest is determined in an evaluation process that identifies variables that are satisfied by the item of interest.

The evaluation process may begin by identifying the item of interest and by further obtaining data regarding the item. In one embodiment the obtained data may include information describing the item of interest and the relationship between the information and one or more paragraph templates. In this manner paragraph templates appropriate to the item of interest may be identified.

In one aspect the obtained data may include metadata which specifies how the obtained data relates to paragraph templates. For example the metadata may specify information such as the language of the paragraph templates the section of the generated content to which the paragraph templates pertain and the paragraph of the generated content to which paragraph templates pertain. By obtaining this metadata information the content generation service may identify and retrieve one or more paragraph templates appropriate to the paragraph for which content generation is to be performed.

In another aspect the obtained data may include structured information describing the item of interest. The structured information may include but is not limited to a table or database which includes entries corresponding to one or more of the attributes of the variables within the sentence templates. For example assuming the item of interest is a lodging property a sentence template for the lodging property may include a variable called water. In certain embodiments the variable of the sentence template may further specify that the attribute associated with the variable water is pool. 

Whether the variable of a sentence template is satisfied by the property of interest is determined by comparing the attribute variable and attributes within the structured data. If a variable attribute is found to match an attribute within the structured data the variable is satisfied by the item of interest. For example using the example above if the structured data for a lodging property indicates that the property possesses the attribute pool the water variable of the sentence template is satisfied.

Upon identifying a match the variable within the sentence template may be replaced by content for the item of interest. In certain embodiments the content may be the name of the attribute itself. In other embodiments the content may be an attribute value associated with the attribute. For example an attribute pool may have an attribute value Olympic sized pool. 

In circumstances where a variable appears more than once within a sentence template the sentence template may be satisfied only if as many attributes of the variable are satisfied as there are instances of the variable within the sentence template. Attributes of the variable are evaluated in ranked order with respect to the structured information of the item of interest. For example assuming a variable is repeated twice within a sentence template and the variable has three associated attributes the variable may be satisfied if two of the three attributes are matched with the attributes of the structured information.

Should the item of interest fail to satisfy at least one variable of the sentence template under consideration the sentence template is not satisfied. For example continuing the example above if the item of interest is a lodging property and the sentence template includes a variable water having an attribute pool a lodging property without an attribute of pool within its structured information would not satisfy the sentence template. Therefore the sentence template under consideration would not be included in the generated content regardless of other content generated for the sentence template under consideration.

Variables may further be designated as conditional variables. A conditional variable is a variable which requires that certain conditions are met before the variable is satisfied. For example assume that a sentence template for a lodging property includes a conditional variable of water having attributes pool lake and ocean. The conditions placed upon the water variable may be that in order for the water variable to be satisfied the structured information for the lodging property must possess at least one of pool lake and ocean attributes. If at least one of these conditions is satisfied content indicating that the lodging property is near a body of water may be added to the generated document. Note that the conditional variable operates differently from other variables in that the conditional variable is not replaced by content such as an attribute or an attribute value when the conditional variable is satisfied. Rather satisfying the conditional variable may result in generation of different content pertaining to the conditional variable.

After obtaining the data and template for the item of interest the content generation service may employ the template and obtained data to generate content. The content generation service begins generating content by considering the highest ranked paragraph template within the paragraph under consideration. Within this highest ranked paragraph template any required sentence types are considered. For example if the item of interest is a lodging property a sentence type including sentence templates regarding the contact information e.g. name address telephone number etc of the property may be designated as required while a sentence template including sentence templates regarding on site dining options may be designated as not required. In the event that more than one required sentence type is present within a paragraph template the required sentence types may be evaluated in any order. If no required sentence types are present within a paragraph template the sentence types may be evaluated in any order. Within the selected sentence type the sentence templates may be considered in ranked order.

Upon selecting the sentence type and highest ranked sentence template for content generation consideration the variables within the highest ranked sentence template may be evaluated in any order as discussed above. In the event that a variable possesses more than one attribute the highest ranked attribute is considered first. If no match is found to the highest ranked attribute the next highest ranked attribute may be checked for a match with the structured information for the item of interest. This process may continue until a match is identified or until all attributes of the variable have been reviewed. If the structured data of the item of interest is not found to match any attribute of the variable the variable is not satisfied. This evaluation process may be performed for each variable within the sentence template under consideration until all variables have been evaluated.

The content generation system may then consider any remaining sentence templates within the sentence type in ranked order until a sentence template is found which satisfies the item of interest. If a satisfying sentence template is identified the variables of the satisfying sentence template may be replaced with their respective attributes or attribute values and the satisfied sentence template is provided as generated content. The content generation system may then continue content generation with another sentence type.

If no satisfying sentence template is identified for a sentence type though the sentence type is determined to fail. In general the content generation system may then move to the next sentence type within the paragraph template under consideration for further content generation. However if the sentence type under consideration is a required sentence type the entire paragraph in which the sentence type resides is determined to fail and is omitted from the generated content.

Alternatively if there are no additional sentence types to be considered for content generation within the paragraph template the content generation system may continue the content generation process with other paragraphs of the section. In further alternatives if no paragraphs remain for content generation the content generation process may continue with other sections of the document or stop content generation.

With reference to an illustrative operating environment is shown including a content generation service for generating content regarding an item of interest using one or more templates . The item of interest may be an object such as an article of manufacture plant animal or person a place such as a building park business landmark or address or an event such as a game concert or movie . In certain embodiments the object of interest may be a travel item. Examples of travel items may include any transportation goods or services such as flights A lodging B land or sea based transportation C e.g. automobiles buses trains cruises and the like or other goods or services related to activities D such as concerts sporting events amusement parks and the like. In certain embodiments discussed below reference may be made to the item of interest as a lodging property. One of skill in the art may understand that such references are intended for illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosed embodiments.

As discussed in greater detail below with respect to the templates may include electronic documents organized into sections which include paragraphs. Content is generated for paragraphs from paragraph templates. The paragraph templates are subdivided into sentence types which include sentence templates. The sentence templates may also include variables having attributes. The content generation service generates content information in the language of the templates relevant to the item of interest. The paragraph templates sentence templates and attributes may be hierarchically organized in order to provide a preferred order in which content is to be generated.

In certain embodiments the templates may be obtained from a data store in communication with the content generation service via a network . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network or combination thereof. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

The content generation service may be embodied in a plurality of computing components each executing an instance of the content generation service . A server or other computing component implementing the content generation service may include a network interface memory processing unit and computer readable medium drive all of which may communicate with each other by way of a communication bus. The network interface may provide connectivity over the network and or other networks or computer systems. The processing unit may communicate to and from a memory containing program instructions that the processing unit executes in order to operate the content generation service . The memory generally includes RAM ROM and or other non transitory persistent and auxiliary memory.

It will be recognized that many of the components described herein are optional and that embodiments of the operating environment may or may not combine components. Additionally the components need not be distinct or discrete. Components may be reorganized in the operating environment . The operating environment may be represented in a single physical server containing all of the subsystems described below or alternatively may be split into multiple physical servers. For example in certain embodiments the content generation service may be implemented as a network based service offering a variety of travel services and search capabilities e.g. a travel website . In alternative embodiments the content generation service may include a stand alone service.

With reference to illustrative components of the content generation service for use in generating content for an item of interest such as that described above will now be addressed. In one embodiment the content generation service may include a scheduling component for identifying when content generation is to be performed. In certain embodiments the scheduling component may locally or remotely retrieve a timetable of dates and or times at which content generation is to be performed by the content generation service . The scheduling component may further identify an item of interest for which content generation is to be performed from the retrieved timetable.

In one embodiment the identified item of interest may include a lodging property. The identified lodging property may be submitted to a point of interest component by the scheduling component . In response to receipt of the identified lodging property the point of interest component may retrieve point of interest information and the location of the identified property e.g. latitude and longitude from a storage device local to the content generation service or a network accessible storage device such as data store . The point of interest information may include information that may be of interest to a visitor to the identified property. Examples may include but are not limited to public and private attractions such as museums landmarks historical sites zoos amusement parks parks reoccurring and non reoccurring events shopping transportation centers e.g. airports rental car locations and bus train and light rail terminals and the like.

The point of interest component may then employ the point of interest information and location information to determine the closest points of interest to the identified lodging property. In one embodiment the closest points of interest may be determined based upon geographic distance between respective points of interest and the identified lodging property. Those points of interest less than a selected distance from the identified lodging property may be determined to be closest points of interest. In another embodiment the closest points of interest may be determined based upon time required to travel between respective points of interest and the identified lodging property. Those points of interest requiring less than a selected travel time from the identified property may be determined to be closest points of interest. One of skill in the art may appreciate that other methods of determining closest points of interest based upon the points of interest and the identified lodging property may be employed without limit. These closest points of interest may be saved to the data store such as within the structured information by the point of interest component for later use by the content generation service for content generation.

The content generation service may further include a template component for performing content generation. For example continuing the example above the template component may also receive the identified lodging property from the scheduling component . Upon receipt of the identified lodging property the template component may obtain data corresponding to the identified property. The obtained data may include structured information regarding the identified lodging property. The obtained data may further include metadata that includes information specifying the language of the template the section of the generated content to which the template is to pertain and the paragraph of the template to which the obtained data is to be correlated. As discussed in greater detail below the template component may further employ the language section and paragraph information of the metadata to identify paragraph templates appropriate to the identified lodging property for retrieval.

The templates and obtained data may each be independently stored locally by the content generation service or may be retrieved remotely from a network accessible storage device such as the data store . Non limiting examples of paragraph templates and obtained data including structured information and metadata corresponding to the identified property are illustrated in and Tables 1 3 below.

In the example of paragraph templates such as paragraph templates A B are illustrated for a location section of a document regarding a lodging property. The paragraph templates A B may also include sentence types such as sentence types A D. In general paragraph templates may possess as few as one to as many sentence types as desired. The sentence types A D may further include sentence templates such as sentence templates A E. In general sentence types may include from as few as one sentence template to as many sentence templates as are desired. For example the paragraph template A includes three sentence types A C WHERE NEAR ATTRACTION and GETTING HERE while the paragraph template B includes two sentence types A and D WHERE AND FALLBACK .

Each of the paragraph templates A B sentence templates A E and attributes may be hierarchically ranked. The paragraph templates A B are ranked within their respective section. For example the paragraph templates A and B are ranked with respect to one another. Sentence templates A E are ranked with respect to one another within their respective sentence types A D. Attributes A are ranked with respect to one another within their respective variables A. Within a given paragraph sentence type or variable the content generation service may be configured to consider the respective paragraph templates sentence templates or attributes in order of their ranking. Furthermore while sentence types A C within paragraph template A and sentence types D E within paragraph template B are not formally ranked with respect to one another within their respective paragraph templates sentence types which are required may be selected for consideration prior to non required sentence types as discussed in greater detail below.

In certain embodiments the ranking of the paragraph templates sentence templates and attributes may be determined by a ranking indicator e.g. 1 2 3 etc. . For example a ranking indicator may be associated with each of the respective paragraph templates sentence templates and attributes. The ranking indicator associated with each of respective paragraph templates sentence templates and attributes may be stored within the data store . In other embodiments the ranking of selective ones of the paragraph templates sentence templates and attributes may be the same indicating no preference between respective paragraph templates sentence templates and attributes.

Obtained data including structured information and metadata corresponding to the paragraph templates A B are illustrated below in Table 1. As illustrated in Table 1 the structured information includes columns for data attributes and attribute values. In certain embodiments the structured information is designed to be searched in order to identify or match with the attributes A of the variables A of the sentence templates A E as discussed below. In one example with respect to Table 1 the sentence template A may possess a variable Location. As illustrated in the variables A the variable Location possesses an attribute City. The variables A may further indicate that the City attribute is associated with an attribute value. As the attribute City is found in the data of the structured information Table 1 the Location attribute may be identified as matching for the property that is. the property satisfies the variable . Furthermore since the Location attribute is indicated as being associated with an attribute value in variables A the attribute value of ABC USA within the structured information may be provided to replace the Location variable within the sentence template A.

The template component may retrieve the structured information and metadata from a storage device which is local to the content generation service and or from a storage device which is accessible to the content generation service via the network such as the data store . The template component may further employ the structured information and metadata for use in generating content for an electronic document based upon the template . An example of a generated electronic document is illustrated in .

The template component may employ the metadata within the obtained data to facilitate content generation. The template component may identify the section language and paragraph for which content generation is to be performed. The template component may further identify and retrieve the highest ranked paragraph template which is appropriate for the identified section language and paragraph of the property for content generation. In this manner the metadata enables easy identification and retrieval of the desired paragraph template.

The template component may begin generating content for a paragraph identified in the metadata of Table 1. The template component may identify the highest ranked paragraph template for the paragraph language and section identified within the metadata. For example as illustrated in a location section in English for a general paragraph is identified. The template component initially retrieves and considers the identified highest ranked paragraph template for the paragraph under consideration. As discussed above in this example it is assumed that the highest ranked paragraph template is the paragraph template which is listed first for the paragraph under consideration paragraph template A.

The template component further attempts to generate content for sentence types within paragraph template A with required sentence types evaluated prior to non required sentence types in certain embodiments. As illustrated in the paragraph template A includes sentence types A C WHERE NEAR ATTRACTION AND GETTING HERE . The first sentence type A includes a single sentence template which reads LODGING is located in the LOCATION where LODGING and LOCATION are variables. The second sentence type B states It is within about DISTANCE of ATTRACTION where DISTANCE and ATTRACTION are variables. The third sentence type C includes two sentence templates The Hotel is located at ADDRESS at the corner of IDENTIFIER and The Hotel is located at ADDRESS where ADDRESS and IDENTIFIER are variables. From variables A of it may be observed that the variable Address corresponds to attribute StreetAddress while the variable Identifier corresponds to the attribute Location Identifier. Furthermore the variables A indicate that variables Address and Identifier are replaced by respective attribute values should they be satisfied by the structured information of Table 1.

It may be assumed in the present example that none of the sentence types A C within paragraph template A are required sentence templates. Thus the sentence types A C are considered in an arbitrary order. Furthermore the sentence templates A D may be ranked in the order in which they appear in their respective sentence types A C. Therefore the first sentence template to be considered is sentence template A.

As discussed above the variables within a selected sentence template may be considered in any order. For example the template component may begin by determining whether a match to the attributes of the variable Lodging. is present within the structured information of Table 1. As illustrated in the variables A the attribute associated with the Lodging variable is LodgingName. As further illustrated in Table 1 the attribute LodgingName is present within the structured information for the lodging property. For example the structured information includes a record for the attribute LodgingName and an indication Y within an Attribute column associated with LodgingName which specifies that the selected property possesses the LodgingName attribute. As a result the template component may determine the lodging property matches the Lodging variable of the sentence template A. Upon identifying a match between the Lodging variable and the structured information of Table 1 the template component may replace the variable LodgingName with the corresponding attribute value XYZ Hotel in order to generate content. Alternatively the template component may wait until all variables within the sentence template A are satisfied before replacing the satisfied variables with their respective content.

The template component may continue content generation with the next variable within the sentence template Location. As illustrated in variables A the City attribute corresponds to the location variable. The Location variable is further indicated as being replaced by an attribute value when a match is identified. Thus upon identifying a match for the City attribute within the structured information of Table 1 the attribute value ABC USA may replace the location variable. In this manner sentence type A may be completed.

The template component continues the content generation process by considering another next sentence type of paragraph template A for example sentence type B NEAR ATTRACTION . Sentence type B includes a single sentence template B which states It is within about DISTANCE of ATTRACTION where DISTANCE and ATTRACTION are variables. The template component determines whether the attributes of the variables Distance and Attraction are matched by the structured information of Table 1. As illustrated in the variables A the variable Distance is associated with the attribute Distance while the variable Attraction is associated with the attribute AttractionName. As further illustrated in Table 1 attributes corresponding to the attribute Distance and AttractionName are not present within the structured information.

Each variable within a sentence template is required to be found to be satisfied in order for the sentence template to be satisfied. Therefore regardless of which variable of the sentence template B is considered first Distance or Attraction failing to determine a match for either the attributes of the Distance or Attraction variables results in failure of the sentence template B. Therefore content is not generated for the sentence template B and sentence template B is omitted from the generated document .

The template component may subsequently consider the remaining sentence type C of the paragraph template A. Sentence type C includes two sentence templates C and D which state The hotel is located at ADDRESS near the corner of IDENTIFIER and The hotel is located at ADDRESS where ADDRESS and IDENTIFIER are variables. As illustrated in variables A the Address variable is associated with the StreetAddress attribute while the Identifier attribute is associated with the LocationIdentifier attribute. As further illustrated in the variables A each of these attributes is replaced by an attribute value should a match with the structured information be identified.

The structured information of Table 1 includes an attribute corresponding to the StreetAddress attribute but does not include an attribute corresponding to the LocationIdentifier attribute. Because at least one attribute of one variable of the sentence template C is not matched by the structured information of Table 1 the template component may determine that the sentence template C is not satisfied by the property and may move to consider the next highest ranked sentence template within the sentence type C sentence template D.

Sentence template D reads The hotel is located at ADDRESS . As discussed above the structured information of Table 1 matches the StreetAddress attribute of the Address variable and has an attribute value of 12345 XYZ street. As the address variable is the only variable within sentence template D the sentence template D is satisfied by the property. Therefore the template component may replace the variable Address with the attribute value 12345 XYZ in the generated document .

Upon completion of the sentence type C the template component searches for additional sentence types within the paragraph template A to consider. Upon determining that there are no additional sentence types within the paragraph template A to consider the template component determines that the paragraph A has been satisfied as at least one sentence type within the paragraph template A has been satisfied. Because the highest ranked paragraph template A of the location section is satisfied the next highest ranked paragraph template of the location section paragraph template B is not considered for content generation. The template component then considers the location section complete and moves to consider paragraph templates remaining within other sections of the document for which content is being generated.

For example the template component may consider a dining section following completion of the location section . To perform content generation the template component may determine that structured information corresponding to the dining section is contained within Table 2 from the section field of the metadata of Table 2. Table 2 may have previously been retrieved concurrently with the structured information of Table 1 for the property enabling the template component to identify that content generation is to be performed for the dining section. As discussed above the template component may first consider the highest ranked paragraph template in the dining section. For this example it may be assumed that paragraph template C is the highest ranked paragraph template followed by paragraph template D.

Paragraph template C includes two sentence types E and F ONSITE and ONSITE DETAIL . As further illustrated in the sentence types E and F each include a single sentence template F and G which state The hotel features RESTAURANT and RESTAURANT serves CUISINE in a ATMOSPHERE where Restaurant Cuisine and Atmosphere are variables. It may be further observed from the variables B that the Restaurant variable is associated with an attribute RestaurantName the Cuisine variable is associated with an attribute CuisineType and the Atmosphere variable is associated with an attribute Ambiance. Each of these variables is further indicated in the variables B as being replaced by an attribute value upon identification of a match with the structured information of the property. In this example it may be assumed that sentence type F is a required sentence type. As the sentence type F is a required sentence type the template component may evaluate it prior to other sentence types e.g. sentence type E within the paragraph template C.

It may be observed from Table 2 and variables B that neither of the attributes of CusineType or Atmosphere contained within sentence template G of sentence type F match the attributes of the structured information. As a result sentence template G is not found to be satisfied. The absence of at least one satisfied sentence template within the required sentence type F results in omission of the paragraph template C from the generated document despite any other sentence types within the paragraph template C which may be satisfied such as sentence type E.

As the paragraph template C is eliminated from consideration for content generation the template component may move to consider paragraph template D for content generation. As paragraph template D is composed of a single sentence type sentence type G which includes a single sentence template H by default sentence template H is considered first.

The sentence template H states FOOD may be obtained from local restaurants where Food is a variable. From variables B it may be observed that variable Food is associated with attributes Hamburgers Chinese and Pizza. It may be assumed that the attributes are ranked from highest to lowest in the order they are listed in the variables B. As the variable Food appears once within the sentence template H the sentence template H may be satisfied if at least one of Hamburgers Chinese and Pizza match the attributes of the property. When determining whether a match between the variable Food and the attributes of the structured information of Table 2 is present the attributes of Food may be considered in ranked order. Thus the template component may first determine whether a match to the Hamburgers attribute is present. If not then the template component may determine whether a match to the Chinese attribute is present. If not then the template component may determine whether a match to the Pizza attribute is present. It may be further observed that the attributes Hamburgers and Pizza of the variable Food are matched in the structured data of Table 2. As the attribute Hamburgers is highest ranked and considered before the Pizza attribute Hamburgers may be selected to replace the Food variable within the sentence template H. Furthermore as the Food variable is the only variable which requires content generation within the paragraph template D matching the Food variable completes content generation for the dining paragraph template D. Additionally as the paragraph template D is the only remaining paragraph template within the dining section completing the paragraph template D also completes the dining section.

Upon completing content generation for the dining section the template component moves to consider any remaining sections for the document . Assume that an amenities section remains for consideration. In one aspect the template component may obtain the structured information of Table 3 for the property. The template component may further determine the paragraph templates appropriate to the amenities section from the metadata of Table 3.

The template component may first determine the highest ranked paragraph template within the amenities section followed by selecting a sentence type or a required sentence type and then considering the highest ranked sentence template within the selected sentence type. As paragraph template E is the only paragraph template by default paragraph template E is selected as the highest ranked. The paragraph template E includes two sentence types H and I WHAT and AVAILABILITY . The sentence types H and I state The Hotel also offers an aquatic complex including a WATER and WATER for the enjoyment of its guests and The aquatic complex is open between the hours of HOURS where Water and Hours are variables. As illustrated in the variables C of the Water variable corresponds to the attributes Pool Spa and Sauna while the variable Hours corresponds to the attribute Time. The attributes of the Water variable may be further ranked from highest to lowest in the order in which they appear in the variables C with the Pool attribute as the highest ranked attribute and the Sauna attribute as the lowest ranked attribute. The variables C further indicate that the name of the attributes of the Water variable are used to replace the Water variable when a match is identified with the structured information of Table 3 while an attribute value corresponding to the attribute Time is used to replace the Hours variable when a match is identified with the structured information of Table 3.

Assuming that the sentence type H is required the template component may begin content generation for paragraph template D with sentence type H. As sentence type H contains only one sentence template sentence template I this sentence template is considered first by default. It may be noted that the Water variable appears twice within sentence template I indicating that two attributes of the Water variable must match the attributes of the structured information of Table 3 for sentence template I to be satisfied. As discussed above the template component may consider the attributes in ranked order. For example the template component may first determine that the Pool attribute of the Water variable is matched by the attributes of the structured information of Table 3. As a result the attribute Pool may replace the first instance of the Water variable in sentence template I. The template component may next determine that the Spa attribute of the Water variable is matched by the attributes of the structured information of Table 3. As a result the attribute Spa may replace the second instance of the Water variable in sentence template I. Upon completing content generation for sentence template I the sentence type H is also completed.

The template component may further generate content for the remaining sentence type I within the paragraph template E which is composed of sentence template J. Based upon the structured information of Table 3 and the variables C the template component may identify a match between the structured information and the Time attribute of the Hours variable. The attribute of 6 AM to 10 PM within the structured information may be added to the sentence template J in replacement of the Hours variable. As the paragraph template E is the only paragraph template within the amenities section completing the paragraph template E also completes the amenities section and the overall document . The completed document is illustrated in .

The content generation service may further include a user interface component . The user interface component may be employed to receive user requests for performing content generation. The user interface component may further generate user interfaces which enable submission of such user requests. The user interface component may further generate user interfaces which enable submission of one or more of structured information metadata and templates for use in content generation.

Upon identification of the lodging property by the scheduling component the content generation service may obtain data e.g. structured information and metadata regarding the lodging property. The structured information and metadata may be stored locally to the content generation service or may be requested from a network accessible storage device remote such as the data store . The obtained data may further include information regarding points of interest related to the identified lodging property.

The point of interest component may employ at least a portion of the received point of interest information in order to identify closest points of interest to the identified lodging property. In one aspect the point of interest component may obtain location information regarding the identified lodging property such as latitude and longitude GPS coordinates and the like. In combination with the point of interest information the closest points of interest to the identified property may be determined. For example algorithm based criteria may be used for determining the closest points of interest.

The determined closest points of interest may be transmitted to the template component . The template component may further employ the identified lodging property and metadata to determine one or more appropriate templates e.g. templates for a selected document section and written in a selected language for which content generation is to be performed in order to provide a document. The templates may be stored locally to the content generation service or may be requested from a network accessible storage device remote such as the data store . With the obtained template structured information and metadata the template component may generate content as discussed above with respect to . Content generated in this manner may be subsequently stored in the data store for later retrieval and use.

In an alternative embodiment illustrated in the content generation service may receive a request to generate content from a client computing device . The client computing device may include any communication device capable of communicating with the content generation service such as a personal computer PC a kiosk a thin client a home computer and a dedicated or embedded machine. Further examples may include without limitation laptop or tablet computers personal computers personal digital assistants PDAs hybrid PDAs mobile phones mobile phones electronic book readers set top boxes and the like.

For example a user may employ a computing device to communicate with the network based service to request information regarding a lodging property including content generated by the content generation service . The user may further employ the network based service to purchase use of the lodging property. As discussed above it may be understood that the content generation service and network based service need not be separate components but instead may be incorporated within a single service.

The computing device may include any communication device capable of communicating with the content generation service such as a personal computer PC a kiosk a thin client a home computer and a dedicated or embedded machine. Further examples may include without limitation laptop or tablet computers personal computers personal digital assistants PDAs hybrid PDAs mobile phones mobile phones electronic book readers set top boxes and the like.

In alternative embodiments the content generation service may also generate requested content upon receipt of the request in lieu of retrieving the content from storage. The ability to generate requested content upon receipt of a request may be advantageous under circumstances where the requested content is not available within storage and or the requested content retrieved from storage is found to be out of date. For example retrieved content may be determined to be out of date if the time elapsed since its generation exceeds a selected time period e.g. one month three months six months one year etc. .

Upon receipt of the request to generate content property information is obtained in block . The property information may include structured information and metadata regarding the property of interest including points of interest and location information. The content generation service may employ the points of interest and location information to generate the closest points of interest to the lodging property of interest in block . The content generation service may further employ the section and language information contained within the metadata to identify and retrieve the correct template for content generation for the lodging property in block . For example the obtained template may identify the paragraph templates for the section paragraph and language identified in the metadata.

Once paragraph templates for the paragraph of the property of interest are identified the content generation service may further identify the hierarchy of the paragraph templates sentence templates and attributes e.g. from the rankings within the data store . In block the highest ranked paragraph template is identified and obtained. Subsequently in block a determination is made whether the paragraph template contains a required sentence type. If so the routine moves to block as discussed below. If not a sentence type is selected in block . In certain embodiments any sentence type may be selected as the sentence types are not ranked and all sentence types absent a required sentence type are considered. Upon selection of a sentence type the highest ranked sentence template within the selected sentence type is selected in block . In alternative embodiments only the highest ranked sentence template may be identified and retrieved rather than all sentence templates of the paragraph template under consideration. In this manner the number of sentence templates retrieved may be reduced.

In block a variable within the selected sentence template is selected for content generation. In decision block the content generation service determines whether a match for one or more of the attributes of the selected variable is present in the structured information for the item of interest. If a match is identified e.g. the variable is satisfied or true the routine moves to decision block where a determination is made whether additional variables are present within the presently considered sentence template. If no match is identified e.g. the variable is not satisfied or true the routine moves to decision block where a determination is made whether another sentence template is present within the sentence type.

If a determination is made that there are no additional variables present within the sentence template after all variables in the sentence template have been identified to be true e.g. the sentence template is also true the routine moves to block . In block the attribute or attribute values associated with the variable is added to the sentence template and the routine moves to decision block . It may be understood in certain embodiments that the attribute or attribute values associated with a variable identified to be satisfied or true may also be added to the sentence template immediately upon being identified to be satisfied or true .

In decision block a determination is made whether another sentence type requiring content generation is present within the paragraph template under consideration. If another sentence type requiring content generation is present within the paragraph template the routine returns to block . If however another sentence type needing content generation is not present within the paragraph template the routine moves to decision block . In decision block a determination is made whether the paragraph template under consideration has been satisfied e.g. content has been generated for the paragraph template or if the next highest ranked paragraph template of the paragraph should be considered for content generation. If a selected paragraph template of the paragraph under consideration is not satisfied another paragraph template may be considered in order to generate content for the paragraph. Thus the routine returns to block where the highest ranked paragraph template remaining for the paragraph under consideration is selected and the routine continues as described above with block .

If however it is determined in block that content has been generated for the paragraph under consideration and additional content generation is not needed for the paragraph the routine moves to decision block . In decision block a determination is made whether another section requiring content generation is present If another section requiring content generation is present the routine returns to block where paragraph templates for the section are identified and the routine continues as described above with block .

As discussed above if a required sentence type is determined in decision block the routine moves to block of . In block the highest ranked sentence template within the selected sentence type is selected and the routine moves to block . In block a variable within the selected sentence template is selected for content generation. In decision block a determination is made whether a match is present for one or more of the attributes of the selected variable within the structured information for the item of interest. If a match is identified e.g. the variable is satisfied or true the routine moves to decision block where a determination is made whether the sentence template under consideration is complete. If the sentence template is complete the routine subsequently moves to block where matching attribute or attribute values are added to the template for content generation. If the sentence template is not complete the routine subsequently moves to block where other variables within the sentence template are considered.

If however the variable is not found to be satisfied the routine moves to block . In decision block a determination is made whether additional sentence templates are present within the required sentence type. If so the routine moves to block where the highest ranked sentence template remaining in the sentence type is considered. If not the routine moves to block where the paragraph under consideration is determined to fail. Paragraph failure in block reflects the determination that content has not been generated for any sentence template within the required sentence type and that the sentence type is required. As a result the entire paragraph within which the sentence type resides is found to be unsatisfied or fails and is omitted from the generated content.

All of the processes described herein may be embodied in and fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers or processors. The code modules may be stored in any type of computer readable medium or other computer storage device. Some or all the methods may alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware. In addition the components referred to herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise are otherwise understood within the context as used in general to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or elements in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

