---

title: Forward-looking synthetic aperture radar processing
abstract: Processing is described for forming a synthetic aperture radar image of the region toward which a platform moves, and for extracting from this image the physical positions of scatterers in the region, including moving scatterers. The processing entails one-dimensional resampling of the received radar data that can be performed as the data are being collected, facilitating real-time operation. Various embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08305253&OS=08305253&RS=08305253
owner: MARK Resources, Inc.
number: 08305253
owner_city: Torrance
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101027
---
The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. FA8651 07 M 0184 awarded by the Air Force.

The present invention relates to the fields of synthetic aperture radar fuze radar collision avoidance radar and precision approach and landing radar.

Synthetic Aperture Radar SAR uses a series of radar pulses transmitted and received over time from a moving platform to create a range crossrange image. The bandwidth of the radar provides range resolution and the angular rotation of the radar line of sight with respect to the scene to be imaged provides crossrange resolution. The formation of a perfectly focused image requires accounting for the time varying range to each point in the scene which variation differs from point to point. Most widely used SAR image formation algorithms Polar Format Algorithm Range Doppler Algorithm Chirp Scaling Algorithm Back Projection Algorithm approximate the range variation in ways that work to varying degrees for side looking SAR but work poorly for forward looking SAR. That is these algorithms do not provide a well focused image of the region toward which the platform is moving. See Carrara W. G. R. S. Goodman and R. M. Majewski Artech House 1995 Cumming I. G. and F. H. Wong Artech House 2005 and Jakowatz C. V. et al. Kluwer Academic 1996. 

Only one of the general approaches to SAR imaging the Range Migration or Omega K Algorithm avoids approximations that are invalid for forming an image of the region toward which the platform is moving. See Carrara W. G. R. S. Goodman and R. M. Majewski Artech House 1995 Cumming I. G. and F. H. Wong Artech House 2005 and Soumekh M. John Wiley Sons 1999. General descriptions of this algorithm assert that it applies for any squint angle but the signal and image processing literature indicates that when it is implemented for high squint angles forward looking it may in practice produce responses that are aberrated wide or shifted from their true locations. See Cadalli N. and D. C. Munson Jr. A Simulation Study of the k SAR Algorithm for the Highly Squinted Case with Application to Runway Imaging Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust. Speech Signal Processing Istanbul Turkey Jun. 5 9 2000 vol. 5 pp. 3025 3028 and Cadalli N. and D. C. Munson Jr. A comparison of k and generalized SAR inversion for runway imaging Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Image Processing Vancouver BC Canada Sep. 10 13 2000 vol. 1 pp. 693 696. Moreover the algorithm requires a time consuming processing step Stolt interpolation that cannot be executed until all the data used to form the image have been collected which makes the algorithm poorly suited for use in real time by fast moving platforms data collection must cease at such a long range from an object to be imaged that only crude crossrange resolution can be obtained. Approximate versions of the Omega K Algorithm replace Stolt interpolation with a faster step but this replacement works poorly for forward looking SAR see Cumming I. G. and F. H. Wong Artech House 2005 .

In forward looking SAR the width of a nominal Doppler resolution cell is inversely proportional to both the integration time and the distance from the radar trajectory. In order to achieve fine resolution near the trajectory one must integrate a relatively long time. However over such long integration times the Dopplers of scatterers that are far from the trajectory vary enough to smear their image responses over many Doppler resolution cells. These scatterers may also move through range resolution cells during the integration time needed to achieve fine Doppler resolution near the radar trajectory. In principle matched filtering may be used to accommodate the differential range acceleration of scatterers. In practice the computation required for matched filter image formation is too much to be implemented in real time on most platforms.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are based on an efficient resampling procedure that accommodates the differential range accelerations. The essential element of the resampling is interpolating the collected data so that they are evenly spaced in a new coordinate the reciprocal of the range to the center of the imaged scene.

To explain the invention an exemplary embodiment for a radar headed on a constant speed straight line at a stationary target including near misses will be described. The assumption of constant speed is for convenience only the method works equally well for any motion along a straight line. The method also works for somewhat curved trajectories. Define the z coordinate to be increasing along the trajectory and the coordinate to measure linear distance from the trajectory line. As explained below the z coordinate is proportional to range in the image and the coordinate is proportional to the square root of crossrange in the image. Let v be the speed and choose the time origin so t 0 is at the projected time of impact or closest approach . Note that with this choice t is negative throughout the image formation process. Also set z 0 at the projected impact point. Then the range to a point at z at time t is given by 1 

When the distance to the object is much larger than the size of the object for this exemplary embodiment when vt z and vt a series expansion of 2 gives 2 2 3 

This gives a Doppler of 2 2 4 where is the wavelength corresponding to the carrier frequency of the radar.

The range acceleration varies throughout the object per 3 and 4 . The invention resamples the data to reduce this variation. To this end define a new coordinate 1 t proportional to the reciprocal of the range to the impact point giving 2 2 5 2 6 Next resample the data via interpolation to obtain constant spacing in . Then in an image formed by a Fourier transform over only the last term in 5 or 6 contributes to crossrange smearing. As discussed below this provides much improved crossrange resolution and response compression.

Although this exemplary embodiment compensates the motion of the impact point the compensated motion need not be that of a point on the trajectory. Compensation of a point at a distance from the trajectory changes 3 through 6 by replacing by without changing the resampling. As discussed below the appropriate selection of the point to compensate depends on the application.

Let T be the duration over which one integrates to form an image giving Doppler resolution 1 T. Without resampling the integration time T is limited approximately by requiring the Doppler drift of a scatterer to be less than a nominal Doppler resolution cell expressed by the leading term of 4 as 2 2 2 

For the reciprocal range coordinate the integration interval is again limited approximately by requiring the crossrange drift of a scatterer to be less than a nominal crossrange resolution cell expressed by the leading term of 6 as 2 

Hence crossrange resolution in provided by the invention is finer than that of the straightforward approach no resampling by the factor of square root over vt Z . This factor is the square root of the ratio of the range and the range extent of the imaged region which is substantial. Note that the reciprocal range resampling effectively increases the allowable integration interval by the same factor from T to t t T square root over vt Z . Consequently reciprocal range resampling improves the resolution of each Doppler cell by the same factor. As discussed below the preferred embodiment follows reciprocal range resampling with a range dependent resampling which increases this factor to the square root of the ratio of the range and the range resolution cell.

During the longer integration interval enabled by reciprocal range resampling scatterers may drift through range resolution cells with the drift increasing with the distance of the scatterer from the radar trajectory. The range drift of a scatterer even at constant range rate R with respect to the new reciprocal range coordinate will also broaden the scatterer s image response in crossrange. The linear in reciprocal range component of the drift and the consequent response broadening in range and crossrange can be eliminated by the application of keystone processing. See Perry R. P. et al. SAR Imaging of Moving Targets January 1999 pp. 188 200. Keystone processing may be implemented by defining a new coordinate f f at each sampled frequency f of the radar bandwidth where fis the radar carrier frequency and then resampling the data to obtain samples spaced evenly in the new coordinate.

Rather than implementing a resampling from the original data sample spacing to even spacing in the reciprocal range coordinate and a subsequent resampling to even spacing in the keystoned coordinate the preferred embodiment of the invention is to implement a single resampling from the original data to the keystoned coordinate.

The joint reciprocal range keystone resampling generates a rectangular grid of data points with uniform spacing in each of the coordinates of reciprocal range and instantaneous radar frequency. At each sample in reciprocal range one generates a range profile by taking an FFT over the sampled instantaneous frequencies. The phase of each scatterer within its range cell over a sequence of range profiles is given by

The position of each scatterer along the trajectory and its distance from the trajectory can be calculated from the crossrange and range position of the scatterer s image response. Let tand t t T denote the start and end imaging times of the data after resampling which trims some samples from each end . Then the crossrange resolution cells are spaced in 1 by 1 1 t 1 t tt T. That is the spacing in R is 2 tt T . Letting Cand Rdenote the image crossrange and range positions in resolution cells of response k 5 and 6 relate these to the position along the trajectory zand the distance from the trajectory as

In a monopulse or interferometric radar system the processing described herein may be applied to each receiver channel and they may be combined via conventional processing e.g. amplitude amplitude monopulse phase phase monopulse sum and difference monopulse combination monopulse additive interferometry multiplicative interferometry to measure the physical position of each image response. The better resolution and compression provided by the invention will result in improved accuracy for these systems. The improved accuracy of the physical position determined by monopulse or interferometry as well as that of the two dimensional position z calculated from the image response location increases the efficacy of using inconsistency in the two measurements to recognize responses from multipath reflection or rotating objects.

The image of a moving target appears smeared and shifted if the moving target is treated as a stationary target per the exemplary embodiment. Entirely analogous effects are well known for side looking SAR. See Soumekh M. John Wiley Sons 1999 and Soumekh M. Prentice Hall 1994. If the target moves with a constant velocity relative to the ground at a much slower speed than the radar response smearing is small for both side looking SAR and the exemplary embodiment. For the latter this is because both the reciprocal range resampling and the keystone resampling of the exemplary embodiment apply to the moving target. Hence the phase of each scatterer is given by 13 where v is the speed of the radar relative to the moving target. If we apply the range dependent resampling using the speed of the radar relative to the ground we obtain a small error for the moving target causing a small degree of smearing. The difference in speed also translates the image of the moving target in crossrange away from that of the underlying ground. Because the crossrange position of the moving target includes this unknown translation corresponding to the unknown difference in speed 16 cannot be used to determine the distance of each scatterer from the radar trajectory. The physical position of each scatterer may be determined by monopulse or interferometric processing.

When the signal to clutter ratio SCR of a moving target is high an alternative embodiment is preferred. Under these conditions the radar can directly measure the range to the target and the relative speed of the radar and target. The measured speed is used in 13 through 16 . This yields better focused responses and more accurate measurements of scatterer positions. The alternative embodiment provides the same degree of focus for a target moving at constant velocity as the exemplary embodiment does for a stationary target the two embodiments are equivalent in the target rest frames . The better focused responses of this embodiment enable more accurate measurements of physical positions via monopulse or interferometric processing.

When the SCR of a moving target is low an embodiment combining the other two is preferred. After the reciprocal range and keystone resamplings the data are stored. A copy is processed per the exemplary embodiment range dependent resampling using the ground speed of the radar followed by image formation and the crossrange Doppler position of the moving target is measured providing the relative speed of the radar and the moving target. A second copy of the data is processed using the measured relative speed in both the range dependent resampling and the measurement of scatterer position.

The exemplary embodiment above is monostatic with the radar transmitter and receiver on the same platform. An alternative bistatic embodiment with the transmitter and receiver on separate platforms employs the same processing wherein range and relative speed are those between the radar receiver and the target except for the measurement of scatterer position. For the bistatic embodiment Cand Rin 15 and 16 denote twice the image crossrange and range positions in resolution cells of response k respectively.

To illustrate the invention specific parameters of the exemplary embodiment will be chosen and the radar returns and their processing will be simulated. The illustration simulates the returns from five point scatterers at the corners and center of a horizontal square 10 m on a side plus a sixth point scatterer above the center and separated from it by the same distance as the corners. The radar travels 0.15 seconds at a speed of 600 m s and a descent angle of 30 covering the range interval from 155 m to 65 m with the impact point being one corner of the square. The square is positioned so that the impact point the center of the square and the corner opposite the impact point are at the same projected position along the radar trajectory. The radar has a carrier frequency of 35 GHz a bandwidth of 1 GHz and an LFM waveform.

Although shows a plot of the image produced by the present invention implementation of the invention does not require any display of the image which is formed and analyzed digitally.

The exemplary embodiment compensates the motion of the impact point and defines the reciprocal range coordinate relative to this point. In general any point near the radar trajectory may be used for these purposes. The appropriate selection depends on the application. If GPS and INS data are unavailable the radar itself must provide the range measurements used in resampling in which case the reference point will likely be off the trajectory. If accurate GPS or INS data are available a reference point on the trajectory allows a simpler implementation.

As shown in the preferred embodiment of the invention entails performing the resampling as the data are being collected rather than after all the data have been collected. This pulse to pulse processing must operate with a slight lag as the resampling interpolates between unevenly spaced points and several data samples are needed on each side of an interpolation point for good accuracy. The preferred embodiment utilizes cubic spline interpolation although the embodiment covers other interpolation functions as well. An implementation including range dependent resampling requires approximately twice the lag as an implementation with just the joint reciprocal range keystone resampling because the range dependent resampling cannot be done for a pulse until the joint reciprocal range keystone processing is complete for that pulse and several later pulses and a Fourier transform over each of those pulses has generated the corresponding range profile. All the resamplings are one dimensional with a correspondingly low computational load and are readily parallelizable facilitating real time implementation. When the radar reaches a predetermined range to the target which depends on the application an image is generated from the range profiles by a Fourier transform over the resampled data in each range gate.

This invention is usable whenever a platform requires awareness of the region toward which it moves. The invention is particularly well suited to rapidly moving platforms and crowded environments. Specific applications include classification of targets and location of aimpoints by missile borne and munition borne fuze radars or radar receivers obstacle detection for collision avoidance by unmanned airborne systems and precision approach and landing of aircraft on carriers and on unimproved runways.

While certain preferred embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed and described herein for purposes of illustration and not for purposes of limitation it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

