---

title: Solid-state imaging device
abstract: According to one embodiment, a solid-state imaging sensor includes an imaging area, a vertical selector circuit, a pulse selector circuit and a timing generator circuit. The vertical selector circuit is provided with one row address comparator circuit corresponding to each of pixel rows. The row address comparator circuit is supplied with a row address in time division within one horizontal scanning interval with respect to the imaging area. Based on the comparison result of the row address comparator circuit, the vertical selector circuit outputs an electronic shutter row select signal and a read row select signal for setting an electronic shutter state and a read state of the corresponding pixel row.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08451357&OS=08451357&RS=08451357
owner: Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba
number: 08451357
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100526
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2009 127888 filed May 27 2009 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiment described herein relate generally to a solid state imaging device which is driven to set an electronic shutter state and a read state within one horizontal scanning interval so that a pixel row is selected.

A CMOS image sensor sets an electronic shutter state and a read state within one horizontal scanning interval in an imaging process and includes a decoder circuit for performing control.

Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication No. 2005 184358 discloses the following CMOS image sensor. The CMOS image sensor includes several decoder circuits equivalent to the number of setting times of an electronic shutter state and a pixel read state every horizontal row of an imaging area. For this reason the circuit scale becomes large.

An electronic shutter interval storage interval is equivalent to the timing difference between a start timing of an electronic shutter operation and a start timing of a pixel read operation. Therefore if an electronic shutter interval is changed from short setting to long setting there is a possibility that two kinds of electronic shutter intervals having different start timing overlap. In order to prevent the foregoing overlap two pixel rows must be simultaneously selected. For this reason a conventional CMOS image sensor is previously provided with two decoder circuits having the same circuit configuration. These decoder circuits set and control an electronic shutter state every horizontal row of an imaging area. The CMOS image sensor uses the foregoing two decoder circuits simultaneously or alternately when preventing the foregoing overlap. However if two decoder circuits are prepared for each horizontal row the circuit scale becomes large.

Moreover the conventional CMOS image sensor includes a vertical line selector circuit capable of controlling a vertical thinning operation. According to the vertical thinning operation a read operation is carried out while skipping pixel rows existing halfway in the vertical direction of an imaging area. When the foregoing vertical thinning operation is carried out a charge is always induced in pixels of the skipped pixel rows. When a charge is continuously induced in the pixel a phenomenon called as blooming happens namely the charge leaks in neighboring pixels. In order to avoid the foregoing phenomenon in a vertical thinning read operation a value specifying a skipping pixel row is set to a latch circuit before an electronic shutter operation. Then the skipping pixel row selected based on the specified value is always discharged. However there is a need to provide a latch circuit for this reason the circuit scale becomes large.

Moreover when the conventional CMOS image sensor executes a simple vertical thinning process the distance between pixels is separated as a result a false color is produced. This is a factor of reducing the image quality. For example Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication No. 2007 173950 discloses a method of preventing an image quality from being reduced by the foregoing false color. According to the method disclosed in the foregoing Publication signals of neighboring pixels in the vertical direction are averaged and thereby a captured image is reduced. This method does not thin and abandon a signal of part of pixels in the vertical direction as a thinning process but analogically averages pixel signals of a plurality of pixels in the vertical direction using a vertical signal line and a current source. According to this method information of pixels positioning halfway in the vertical direction is reflected therefore a generation of a false color is prevented. However if the foregoing prevention is realized using the same method as above in a conventional CMOS image sensor the following problem arises. Specifically there is a need to change a vertical line selector circuit so that neighboring pixel rows are simultaneously driven for this reason the circuit scale becomes larger.

In general according to one embodiment a solid state imaging sensor includes an imaging area a vertical selector circuit a pulse selector circuit and a timing generator circuit. The imaging area includes a plurality of pixel rows and columns having a plurality of pixels arrayed like a matrix. The vertical selector circuit is provided with one row address comparator circuit corresponding to each of the foregoing pixel rows. The row address comparator circuit is supplied with a row address in time division within one horizontal scanning interval with respect to the imaging area. Based on the comparison result of the row address comparator circuit the vertical selector circuit outputs an electronic shutter row select signal and a read row select signal for setting an electronic shutter state and a read state of the corresponding pixel row. The pulse selector circuit supplies a plurality of drive pulse signals to each of a pixel row set to the electronic shutter state and to the read state based on the foregoing electronic shutter row select signal and read row select signal. The timing generator circuit generates the row address and thereafter supplies it to the vertical selector circuit. Simultaneously the timing generator circuit controls the drive of the vertical selector circuit and the pulse selector circuit.

An embodiment will be hereinafter described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description the same reference numerals are used to designate portions common to all drawings.

Hereinafter a detailed explanation will be made. The imaging area is provided with pixels that is a unit cells i 1 2 . . . N 1 N and j 1 2 . . . M 1 M and so forth . These pixels that is unit cells are two dimensionally arrayed like a matrix such as N rows and M columns. Each of the vertical signal lines VLINj is connected corresponding to each pixel column.

Each unit cell comprises four transistors that is a row select transistor Ta an amplification transistor Tb a reset transistor Tc and a read transistor Td and one photodiode PD. For example one unit cell has the following configuration specifically a current path of transistors Ta and Tb is interposed in series between a supply node of a power supply voltage VDD and a vertical signal line VLIN. A gate electrode of transistor Ta is supplied with a row select drive pulse signal ADRES. A current path of transistor Tc is connected between the supply node of the power supply voltage VDD and a gate electrode floating diffusion region FD of the transistor Tb. The gate electrode of the transistor Tc is supplied with a reset drive pulse signal RESET. One terminal of a current path of the transistor Td is connected to the floating diffusion region FD and a gate electrode thereof is supplied with a read drive pulse signal READ. The other terminal of the current path of the transistor Td is connected with a cathode of the photodiode PD. An anode of the photodiode PD is connected to a ground node. In symbols R B Gb and Gr described in each unit cell denote red blue and green color cells respectively. In particular the symbol Gb denotes a green unit cell arrayed between blue unit cells and the symbol Gr denotes a green unit cell arrayed between red unit cells.

One terminal of the imaging area for example the upper portion of is provided with the current sources used for a source follower circuit which are horizontally arrayed. Each current path of these current sources is interposed between each one terminal of the vertical signal line VLINj and a ground node.

The other terminal of these vertical signal lines VLINj for example the lower portion of is provided with an analog to digital converter circuit ADC a latch circuit a line memory and a horizontal shift register circuit . Specifically the latch circuit latches a pixel signal converted into a digital signal by the ADC . The line memory stores a signal latched by the latch circuit . The horizontal shift register circuit executes the control for reading a signal from the line memory .

The foregoing vertical selector circuit and pulse selector circuit are arrayed adjacent to each other in the row direction of the imaging area . The pulse selector circuit outputs a plurality of drive pulse signals for selecting and driving a pixel row of the imaging area according to a plurality of read row select signals VSEL ROi and electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ES. In other words the pulse selector circuit supplies a row select drive pulse signal ADRESi a reset drive pulse signal RESETi and a read drive pulse signal READi corresponding to a pixel row of the imaging area .

The timing generator circuit generates various control signals according to a horizontal synchronizing pulse signal and then supplies them to the foregoing ADC latch circuit line memory horizontal shift register circuit vertical selector circuit and pulse selector circuit .

The vertical selector circuit is supplied with a row address DEC a read set signal ro set a electronic shutter set signa es set a register value set signal reg set a clock signal clk and a asynchronous reset signal rst n. The foregoing signals are generated by the timing generator circuit . The row address comparator circuit is concurrently supplied with a row address DEC so that a specific row address is individually input to each pixel row.

The first selector circuit is concurrently supplied with a register value set signal reg set as one input and concurrently supplied with an electronic shutter set signal es set as a select signal. The second selector circuit is supplied with an output signal of the first selector circuit as one input and supplied with an output signal of the row address comparator circuit as a select signal. The third selector circuit is concurrently supplied with a register value set signal reg set as one input and concurrently supplied with a read set signal ro set as a select signal. The fourth selector circuit is supplied with an output signal of the third selector circuit as one input and supplied with an output signal of the row address comparator circuit as a select signal.

The first register is supplied with an output signal of the second selector circuit as input D and concurrently supplied with an asynchronous set signal rst n and a clock signal clk. An output signal output Q of the first register is supplied as the other input to first and second selector circuits and . Further the foregoing output signal output Q of the first register is output as an electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ESi to each pixel row of the imaging area . The second register is supplied with an output signal of the fourth selector circuit as input D and concurrently supplied with the asynchronous set signal rst n and the clock signal clk. An output signal output Q of the second register is supplied to third and fourth selector circuits and as the other input. Further the foregoing output signal output Q of the second register is output as a read row select signal VSEL ROi to each pixel row of the imaging area .

Of vertical selector circuits a circuit corresponding to the first pixel row of the imaging area is given as an example and the operation of the circuit will be briefly explained below. A row address comparator circuit compares a row address DEC with the corresponding specific row address. If the foregoing two row addresses coincide with each other the circuit outputs a level 1 . Conversely if the foregoing two row addresses do not coincide the circuit outputs a level 0 . Generally an i row address comparator circuit outputs a level 1 when a row address DEC is i while outputs a level 0 when the row address DEC is cases other than i.

First and second registers and are initialized when the asynchronous reset signal rst n is a level 0 therefore the output Q is set to a level 0 . When the reset signal rst n is a level 1 a reset state is released. Further first and second registers and capture a value of input D output of second or fourth selector circuit or at the rise of the clock signal clk. Therefore these first and second registers and hold the previous output value even if the clock signal clk changes when the output of the row address comparator circuit is a level 0 . On the other hand when the output of the row address comparator circuit is a level 1 these registers and capture output signals of first and third selector circuits and and thereafter store them.

The first selector circuit selects and outputs the output Q of the first register when the electronic shutter set signal es set is a level 0 . On the other hand the circuit selects and outputs a value of the register value set signal reg set when the electronic shutter set signal es set is a level 1 . Therefore when the electronic shutter set signal es set is a level 1 and the output of the row address comparator circuit is a level 1 the register value set signal reg set is supplied as input D to the first register .

In a latch circuit may be used in place of first and second registers. This latch circuit is used and thereby the circuit scale is further reduced.

The pulse selector circuit is supplied with the following various signals. One is a read control pulse signal ROREAD and another is a read reset control pulse signal RORESET. Another is a read row select control pulse signal ROADR. Another is an electronic shutter read control pulse signal ESREAD. Another is an electronic shutter reset control pulse signal ESRESET. Another is an electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ESi and a read row select signal VSEL ROi which are output from the vertical selector circuit . The foregoing control pulse signals ROREAD RORESET ROADR ESREAD and ESRESET are generated by the timing generator circuit .

The first AND gate is concurrently supplied with a read control pulse signal ROREAD and independently supplied with a read row select signal VSEL ROi. The second AND gate is concurrently supplied with a read reset control pulse signal RORESET and independently supplied with the read row select signal VSEL ROi. The third AND gate is concurrently supplied with a read control pulse signal ROREAD and independently supplied with the read row select signal VSEL ROi. The fourth AND gate is concurrently supplied with an electronic shutter reset control pulse signal ESRESET and independently supplied with an electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ESi. The fifth AND gate is concurrently supplied with an electronic shutter read control pulse signal ESREAD and independently supplied with the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ESi.

The first OR gate is supplied with an output signal RORESETi of the second AND gate and an output signal ESRESETi of the fourth AND gate . Then the first OR gate outputs a reset drive pulse signal RESETi. The second OR gate is supplied with an output signal ROREADi of the third AND gate and an output signal ESREADi of the fifth AND gate . Then the second OR gate outputs a read drive pulse signal READi.

Of pulse selector circuits a circuit corresponding to the first pixel row of the imaging area is given as an example and the operation of the circuit will be briefly explained below. First second and third AND gates and output signals ROADR RORESET and ROREAD based on control pulse signals ROREAD RORESET ROADR and read row select signal VSEL RO output from the vertical selector circuit respectively. When the read row select signal VSEL RO is a level 1 the foregoing AND gates and output signals ADRES RORESET and ROREAD. When the read row select signal VSEL RO is a level 0 these AND gates and each output a level 0 .

Fourth and fifth AND gates and output signals ESRESET and ESREAD based on the electronic shutter reset control pulse signal ESRESET the electronic shutter read control pulse signal ESREAD the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ES respectively. When the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ES is a level 1 AND gates and output signals ESRESET and ESREAD. When the signal VSEL ES is a level 0 AND gates and each output a level 0 .

The first OR gate outputs a reset drive pulse signal RESET to the corresponding pixel row based on output signals RORESET and ESRESET of second and fourth AND gates and . The second OR gate outputs a read drive pulse signal READ to the corresponding pixel row based on output signals ROREAD and ESREAD of third and fifth AND gates and .

Various operations of the image sensor shown in will be explained below. is a timing chart showing a standard read operation when all rows are read . In each timing chart after a symbol 1H shown therein denotes an interval i.e. one horizontal scanning interval of reading one row of the imaging area at reference timing.

Various read pulse signals ROADR RORESET and ROREAD and various electronic shutter pulse signals ESRESET and ESREAD are input to the pulse selector circuit . These pulse signals are generated by the timing generator circuit every 1H interval at the same timing according to the horizontal synchronizing pulse signal.

The row address DEC input to the vertical selector circuit is control at a unit of 1H by the timing generator circuit . The read set signal ro set is set to level 1 for intervals when pulse signals ROREAD and ROREST are not output. The electronic shutter set signal es set is set to level 1 for intervals when pulse signals ESREAD and ESREST are not output. In this case the foregoing two set signals ro set and es set are output so that they are not simultaneously set to level 1 . The register value set signals reg set are each set to level 1 at the second half of intervals when signals ro set and es set are level 1 . The clock signal clk is output when signals ro set es set and reg set are level 1 level 0 and level 0 when they are 1 0 and 1 when they are 0 1 and 0 and when they are 0 1 and 1 . In this way the 1H interval is time divided into an electronic shutter set interval and a read set interval.

An electronic shutter discharge operation will be explained below. In one horizontal interval 1H shown by T in when the register value set signal reg set is set to a level 1 the electronic shutter set signal es set is set to a level 1 . The first selector circuits each output the signal reg set set to level 1 therefore the output signal of the circuits are set as level 1 . Further when signals reg set and es set are both set to level 1 a row address DEC is set to level 1 . When the row address is level 1 the output signal of the row address comparator circuit of the vertical selector circuit is set to level 1 . Therefore the second selector circuit only of the vertical selector circuit selects and outputs the output signal of the first selector circuit . Furthermore when a clock signal clk is input in a state that a row address DEC is set to level 1 the output signal of the second selector circuit is stored in the first register circuit . In this way the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ES is set to level 1 .

In the next one horizontal interval 1H shown by T when the electronic shutter set signal es set is set to a level 1 in a state that the register value set signal reg set is set to a level 0 each output signal of the first selector circuits is set to level 0 . Further when signal reg set is set to level 0 and signal es set is set to level 1 a row address DEC is set to level 1 . Therefore as described above the output signal of the row address comparator circuit of the vertical selector circuit is set to level 1 . Consequently the second selector circuit of the vertical selector circuit selects and outputs the output signal of the first selector circuit which is set to level 0 . Furthermore when a clock signal clk is input in a state that a row address DEC is set to level 1 the output signal of the second selector circuit is stored in the first register circuit . In this way the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ES is set to level 0 .

For an interval when signal VSEL ES is level 1 the pulse selector circuit is supplied with electronic shutter read and reset control pulse signals ESREAD and ESRESET. Output signals ESRESET and ESRESAD of fourth and fifth AND gates and of the pulse selector circuit are synchronous with signals ESRESET and ESREAD and thus each set to level 1. Therefore reset and read drive pulse signals RESET and READ are output from first and second OR gates and . Hereinafter in the same manner as above electronic shutter row select signals VSEL ES VSEL ES . . . VSEL ESN 1 VSEL ESN are successively set to level 1 every one horizontal scanning interval 1H . In accordance with the foregoing electronic shutter row select signals reset drive pulse signals RESET RESET . . . RESETN 1 RESETN and read drive pulse signals READ READ . . . READN 1 READN are successively output. In this way a pixel row of the imaging area is successively selected and then reset and read drive pulse signals RESETi and READi are output every selected pixel row.

In each unit cell of the selected pixel row reset and read drive pulse signals RESETi and READi are simultaneously set to level 1 . In this way reset transistor Tc and read transistor Td are simultaneously turned on and therefore the photodiode PD is discharged to the supply node of the power supply voltage VDD. Further the reset drive pulse signals RESETi is set to 1 therefore the floating diffusion region FD is reset to a VDD level. In this way each unit cell of the selected pixel row is discharged.

A pixel data read operation will be explained below. The pixel data read operation is basically the same as the foregoing electronic shutter operation. Specifically register value set signal ro set and register set signal reg set and row address DEC are controlled so that read row select signal VSEL ROi is successively set to level 1 every one horizontal scanning interval 1H . In this way a pixel row whose pixel data is read is selected. Then reset row select and read drive pulse signals RESETi ADRESi and READi are output every selected pixel row.

In each unit cell of the selected pixel row reset drive pulse signal RESETi is set to level 1 in order to remove a noise signal by a dark current in the floating diffusion region FD before read is carried out and thus the reset transistor Tc is turned on. In this way the floating diffusion region FD is reset to a voltage VDD. Further the row select drive pulse signal ADRESi is set to level 1 so that the row select transistor Ta is turned on and thereby a source follower circuit including the amplification transistor Tb and the current source is operated. During an interval when the row select transistor Ta is turned on the read drive pulse signal READi is set to level 1 and therefore the amplification transistor Tb is turned on. In this way a predetermined time elapses after a discharging operation is carried out and thereafter a signal charge photoelectrically converted and stored by the photodiode PD is amplified by the amplification transistor Tb. Therefore the amplified voltage signal is read to the corresponding vertical signal line VLINi. The voltage signal is converted into a digital signal by the ADC and thereafter the converted digital signal is latched by the latch circuit and then successively read by way of the line memory .

In other words the row address comparator circuit included in the vertical selector circuit is supplied in time division with a row address within one horizontal scanning interval H with respect to an imaging area. Then based on the comparison result by the row address comparator circuit the vertical selector circuit outputs electronic shutter and read row select signals for setting an electronic shutter state and a read state every pixel row. According to the foregoing control even if the electronic shutter state and the read state are overlapped in the same pixel row of the imaging area it is possible to set an electronic shutter state without increasing the circuit scale.

Specifically the thinning read operation is different from the standard read operation described above namely electronic shutter and read operations are carried out while discharge target rows are skipped. In this case a charge is always induced in a unit cell of a skipped row. If a charge is continuously induced this is a factor of causing a problem called as blooming namely an induced charge leaks into neighboring pixels. In order to prevent the foregoing blooming that is in order that a unit cell of a skipped row is always discharged the following setting is carried out. Specifically the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ESi is always input to a discharge target row before an electronic shutter operation. For example in one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T of when the register value set signal reg set is set to level 1 the electronic shutter set signal es set is set to level 1 . Further when the foregoing set signals reg set and es set are both set to level 1 row addresses DEC corresponding to skipped rows that is third fourth seventh and eighth rows are successively set synchronizing with a clock signal clk. Thereafter electronic shutter row select signals VSEL ES VSEL ES VSEL ES and VSEL ES of third fourth seventh and eighth rows are set to level 1 . As a result as can be seen from reset and read drive pulse signals RESET RESET READ and READ are output to third and fourth pixel rows every one horizontal scanning interval 1H . Thus the same discharge operation as the case of the standard read operation of is carried out. In each of other rows except skipped rows a discharge operation and a read operation are carried out as in the case of the standard read operation of .

As described above the timing generator circuit executes the following control in addition to the foregoing time division multiplex setting control. According to the control the circuit generates a plurality of row addresses within one horizontal scanning interval with respect to the imaging area and thereafter supplies them to the vertical selector circuit . Then the circuit controls the operation of vertical selector circuit and pulse selector circuit . In this way the circuit thins pixel rows of the imaging area corresponding to the row addresses so that a pixel signal is read. In this case there is no need to provide a conventionally required latch circuit for specifying skipped rows in order to specify skipped rows so that discharging is always carried out.

In addition when electronic shutter row select signals VSEL ES and VSEL ES and read row select signals VSEL RO and VSEL RO are set to level 0 row addresses corresponding to a plurality of pixels whose signals are average are successively set.

As can be seen from the foregoing description the timing generator circuit executes the following control in addition to the foregoing time division multiplex setting control. According to the control the circuit generates a plurality of row addresses within one horizontal scanning interval with respect to the imaging area and thereafter supplies them to the vertical selector circuit . Then the circuit controls the operation of vertical selector circuit and pulse selector circuit . In this way the circuit thins pixel rows of the imaging area corresponding to the row addresses so that a pixel signal is read.

As described before the conventional image sensor has a possibility that if an electronic shutter interval is changed from short setting to long setting two kinds of electronic shutter interval having different start time are overlapped. are timing charts to explain another example of the standard read operation. Namely show the case where an electronic shutter interval is changed from short setting to long setting halfway in the all rows read operation. are timing charts in the vicinity of the start time of the all rows read operation. is a timing chart after an electronic shutter interval is changed from short setting to long setting.

Each operation of one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T to T of is the same as the case described in . Operations after one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T of are different from the operation described in . In one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T a row address DEC is set to 5 and thereafter set to 1 in order to select the first row. In other words an electronic shutter interval is changed from short setting to long setting from one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T. In this way the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ES corresponding to the first row is set to level 1 during the period when the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ES corresponding to the fifth row is set to level 1 . Therefore in one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T discharging is based on reset and read drive pulse signals RESET and READ in each unit cell of the fifth pixel row. Simultaneously discharging is based on reset and read drive pulse signals RESET and READ in each unit cell of the first pixel row.

In the next one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T following T a row address DEC is set to 6 and thereafter set to 2 in order to select the second row. In other words an electronic shutter interval is changed from short setting to long setting from one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T. In this way the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ES corresponding to the second row is set to level 1 during the period when the electronic shutter row select signal VSEL ES corresponding to the sixth row is set to level 1 . Therefore in one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T discharging is based on reset and read drive pulse signals RESET and READ in each unit cell of the sixth pixel row. Simultaneously discharging is based on reset and read drive pulse signals RESET and READ in each unit cell of the second pixel row. Thereafter each unit cell of two pixel rows is discharged simultaneously.

In each unit cell of the fifth pixel row discharging in one horizontal scanning interval 1H of T the charge is read in one horizontal scanning interval 1H of T. On the other hand charge reading from each unit cell of the first pixel row discharging simultaneously with the fifth pixel row in the foregoing 1H interval is carried out in one horizontal scanning interval 1H shown by T of . Hereinafter charge reading is carried out after an electronic shutter interval is changed to long setting in one horizontal scanning interval 1H after T.

As can be seen from the foregoing description the timing generator circuit executes the following control in addition to the foregoing time division multiplex setting control. According to the control the circuit generates a plurality of row addresses within one horizontal scanning interval with respect to the imaging area and thereafter supplies them to the vertical selector circuit . Then the circuit controls the operation of vertical selector circuit and pulse selector circuit . In this way it is possible to prevent a state that two kinds of electronic shutter intervals having different start time are overlapped.

This embodiment relates to the case where each unit cell shown in is provided with one photodiode. In this case each unit cell shown in may be provided with two or four photodiodes

While certain embodiment has been described this embodiment has been presented by way of example only and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of the inventions.

