---

title: Systems and methods for converting and delivering medical images to mobile devices and remote communications systems
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for automated conversion of medical images and delivery to mobile devices or remote communication systems. Medical images are stored, along with related metadata, at a central location such as a server in a medical data format. A user can then submit a request or query to find the medical images on the server and deliver them to a mobile device or other remote communication system separate from the central location. The medical images are then converted to a standardized format specification based on an output destination type of the mobile device or remote communication system. A message is assembled with the converted medical data from a message template and is then transmitted to the mobile device or remote communication system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09235605&OS=09235605&RS=09235605
owner: TRICE IMAGING, INC.
number: 09235605
owner_city: Del Mar
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101014
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 251 334 filed Oct. 14 2009 and entitled Converting and Delivering Medical Images to Mobile Devices and Remote Communication Systems which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as if set forth in full.

The embodiments described herein are related to delivery of medical image records and more particularly to the automatic conversion of medical image file for delivery to mobile devices and or remote communication systems.

Medical diagnostic devices and medical imaging systems have become increasingly complex in recent years. In response to the increasing challenges in digital imaging technology the American College of Radiology ACR and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association NEMA developed the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine DICOM standard. DICOM is a standard for handling storing printing and transmitting information in medical imaging. It includes a file format definition and a network communication protocol. The network communication protocol is an application protocol that uses TCP IP to communicate between systems. One of the goals of the standard is to make uniform the transferring of medical images and information between viewing and scanning sources to allow users of different imaging software and or hardware to share information. DICOM files can be exchanged between two entities that are capable of receiving image and patient data in DICOM format. DICOM enables the integration of scanners servers workstations printers and network hardware from multiple manufacturers into a Picture Archiving and Communication System PACS for storing and downloading of digital images. The different devices come with DICOM conformance statements that clearly state the DICOM classes they support. DICOM has been widely adopted by hospitals and is gaining popularity in smaller dentists and doctors offices.

DICOM files commonly contain images therefore they are often referred to as DICOM images. But it will be understood that a DICOM file does not necessarily need to include an image. Rather such a file can include measurements or report data. Thus DICOM files may contain media data such as video and audio data or no media data at all. In that case DICOM files may contain only metadata identifying the originating modality the operator or the patient being examined. Modality here refers to any image generating equipment in medical imaging such as Ultrasound US Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT Positron Emission Tomography PET radiographs and the like.

The type of data and amount of data available in any one DICOM image file varies. A DICOM file is generally structured using data identifying Patient Study Series and Instance in that hierarchical order. A Patient can be involved in a number of Studies cases which in turn may contain a number of Series examination or visits which in turn may contain a number of Instances files usually containing images . It means that a DICOM file can be unambiguously identified and fitted into that hierarchy. All DICOM files contain an identifier for the generating modality. In other words the identifier will reflect the equipment or location in which the file was originated. The files also contain timestamps pertaining to both the file itself Instance and the Series. Using the timestamps and the originating identifier an image can be unambiguously identified using that data without involving any identifiable patient information to safeguard patient privacy issues. In addition DICOM file format differs from other data formats in that it groups information into data sets. For example a file of a chest X Ray image actually contains the patient ID within the file so that the image can never be separated from this information by mistake.

Most PACSs handle images from various medical imaging instruments including US MRI PET CT and the like. Electronic images and reports are transmitted digitally via PACS this eliminates the need to manually file retrieve or transport film jackets. A PACS consists of four major components the imaging modalities such as CT and MRI a secured network for the transmission of patient information workstations for interpreting and reviewing images and long and short term archives for the storage and retrieval of images and reports. Combined with available and emerging Web technology PACS has the ability to deliver timely and efficient access to images interpretations and related data. PACS breaks down the physical and time barriers associated with traditional film based image retrieval distribution and display.

Medical imaging devices typically output digital image data. The overwhelming majority if not all of such devices use the DICOM standard for both image file format and network transfers. These images are generally not readable by consumer image viewers or mobile devices. Therefore patients who wish to share their medical images struggle with conversion and delivery of these images. A good example is to share images from an Ultrasound examination during a pregnancy. The future parents usually would like to keep share and display the images of their future child. They might also conceivably want to send these images to their friends and relatives cellular phones or email accounts. They might even want to post them on a social network or they might just want to keep them in their personal digital photo album . All of these events would require them to either scan a printed hard copy of the image or to find purchase install and learn to use DICOM viewer software package with export capabilities. These software packages are usually not readily available or they are not economical for limited use.

It should also be noted that this issue is not necessarily limited to DICOM files. In general there is no real method for a patient to view images related to their condition treatment status etc. Moreover there are few if any effective means by which a doctor or clinician can quickly and remotely retrieve images for diagnostic or other purposes.

In fact many smaller medical practices such as small clinics doctors offices and dentists offices also suffer from an inability to convert deliver and receive medical images economically and timely. These facilities usually do not have the technical support staff or finances to run a full PACS for image archiving and delivery to remote expert doctors for second opinions and consultations. They often resort to using films or writable CDs which are sent by mail or messenger. This is both slow environmentally unfriendly and in the case of using unregistered postal delivery insecure. The cost of running a PACS is not just paying the licensing fees. Major investments in advanced infrastructure including the surrounding software hardware and facility as well as the cost for educating staff and the hours spent on administration will add to the cost of running a PACS. These major investments are expensive therefore usually out of reach for most small businesses.

Systems and methods for the quick and easy distribution of medical images to a plurality of output modalities in a manner that maintains the highest possible image quality and resolution are described herein.

According to one aspect a system for automated conversion and delivery of medical images comprising a communication interface a user interface a data storage system configured to store a plurality of medical images meta data associated with the plurality of medical images converted medical images a plurality of standardized format specifications for a plurality of destination devices and services and a plurality of message templates a server coupled with the data storage system and the communication interface the server configured to receive a plurality of medical image files via the communications interface the medical image files comprising medical data and meta data the medical data having a medical data format store the medical image files receive a request via the user interface to find a medical image file return a notification that the requested medical image file has been found via the user interface receive an output destination type associated with the medical data file via the user interface wherein the output destination type is an output device service or both retrieve the requested medical image file determine whether the medical data associated with the requested medical image file includes medical image data correlate the output destination type with one or more of the plurality of standardized format specifications and with one or more of the plurality of message templates convert the medical data format associated with the medical data based on the standardized format specifications that correlate with the output destination type assemble at least one output message that includes the converted medical data based on the message templates that correlate with the output destination type and transmit the output message to at least one destination via the communication interface.

These and other features aspects and embodiments are described below in the section entitled Detailed Description. 

Central Computer System CCS can include a data conversion and delivery system DCDS for processing the medical data. The CCS can comprise one or more servers and include one or more a processors or CPUs memory associated with the processor s a data storage module a display means and an input output interface means. It should be appreciated that various other peripheral devices and modules can be connected to the CCS such as other servers other data storage modules or intrusion detection systems. The CCS can also be a cluster of interoperating servers each taking care of a specific task within the system. Similarly all the modules shown in and described below can each be a separate server in such a cluster so as to distribute the load and increase the capacity of the system.

DCDS can be configured to convert medical images associated with the medical data into e.g. consumer friendly images video or both. DCDS can then in turn send these converted images to a number of destinations or output modalities as directed by the user operator of DCDS or as dictated by information included in the medical data. These destinations can be for example a web site such as a social networking site including e.g. Twitter Facebook and Google Health cellular phones PDAs Email accounts or any computer system capable of accepting data via protocols such as e.g. SOAP and REST. DCDS functions in such a way that it allows source modalities to be protected by the most rigorous of firewall settings while still allowing transfers to take place over the internet . The original source image data may optionally be sent to the destinations without any processing or conversion.

For example when a patient undergoes an ultrasound examination during pregnancy the ultrasound images can be sent to DCDS for conversion into a set of images that can be sent the parent s social networking web page their mobile device their friends and families devices or web pages etc. More specifically a nice sequence of the fetus waving its arm can be captured and stored during the ultrasound examination by the operator. The ultrasound operator usually a nurse or technician sends the stored e.g. DICOM file to DCDS . The nurse technician or any trusted employee at the patient s facility user can use a remote graphical user interface GUI interfaced with DCDS to bring up the desired sequence sent by the source modality . The user can then enter the cellular phone numbers web account information email addresses etc. as well as any personal message that the patient indicates and then start the delivery process. The e.g. DICOM file now converted into a cellular phone compatible video format e.g. 3gpp can then be sent as a multimedia message to the mobile phones and files converted to other appropriate formats can also be sent to the given email and web accounts.

Alternatively the nurse or technician at the patient s facility can enter the patient s cellular phone number in the patient information field on the ultrasound machine. On receiving the e.g. DICOM data file DCDS can be configured to then locate that number embedded in the DICOM data file and automatically forward the converted image or video file after processing to the desired locations as specified by the patient. Examples of these processes are described in detail below.

Storage Parser can be configured to parse the received data and to store any image data and all metadata in storage system . For example the image data can be stored as binary data while the metadata can be stored as structured data allowing typical structured access to the data such as searches and associations between different items. Storage Parser can be configured in certain implementations or under certain conditions to strip all sensitive patient information from the incoming data file. For example an operator of the system can use a Graphical User Interface GUI such as a Web GUI to selectively set the parts of metadata that are considered to be sensitive. Alternatively the system can be programmed to automatically determine which fields in the meta data are sensitive. This process is called anonymization and it is performed in order to protect the patient s privacy. Anonymization is discussed in more detail below.

In certain embodiments an event signal can be triggered indicating that the newly stored data has been added. When Event System module receives an event signal from the parser it can be configured to determine what action if any should be taken as a result. For example if rules for automatic delivery have been set and the appropriate metadata values are found in the newly received data stored in structured database then Event System module can be configured to signal the Output Module to send the converted data as instructed by the automatic delivery rules. This process is also described in more detail below.

Output Module can be configured to accept calls from other parts of DCDS containing general data information to send and number of delivery destinations including email addresses. For example the data can include a text message a reference to a e.g. DICOM image two cellular phone numbers and one email address. The Output Module can be configured to assemble the appropriate formatted output packages or messages and send the resulting messages using a modular plug in based architecture. A plug in not shown for each corresponding type of destination can be included and used by Output Module .

In the example provided above when a service call is received by DCDS Output Module can assemble one MMS message packet containing a jpeg version of an image and message text all combined and encoded according to the MMS specifications. This message can then be sent twice first to each phone number destinations requested and secondly to each email address destinations specified.

Output Module can request a converted image from Image Converter identifying the original image and specifying the requested format and dimensions. Image Converter can be configured to then look for an existing image in the Converted Image Cache that matches the request. If no match is found it can generate an image from the original image data . The Image Converter can be configured to use the metadata of the original image stored in database to determine if the requested format is appropriate. If not it can respond with an error. For example requesting an mp3 audio version of a still image would result in an error while requesting a jpeg still image of a multi frame DICOM image file effectively video would be proper.

Image Converter can be configured to respond to an event from Parser and perform common conversions preemptively. This will improve the responsiveness of the system components in particular the Output Module and the Web GUI however the trade off is an increase in storage required and also a slight decrease in the overall security level.

A Web GUI provides e.g. medical staff with remote access to DCDS via a secured web browser connection https . Such a Web GUI can provide an interface to perform administrative tasks such as setting up rules for Event System module as well as an optimized interface for identifying images and sending output messages. The typical operations of these interfaces are described in detail below.

Web GUI can operate on the structured metadata to find and identify images. It can be configured to request conversions from Image Converter to e.g. display thumbnails and previews of images and to provide service request forms where output messages can be specified and send on to Output Module for delivery.

An adaptable Garbage Collector can continually evaluate the state of all data and compare that to configurations made by an administrator of the system. The configuration can set certain criteria that items need to meet in order to remain in the system or be deleted from the system. One basic criterion can be the age of an item. For example if an item has been stored over a week ago or certain number of days ago could be automatically deleted. Other automatic deletion criteria can be the number of times an item has been previously sent system state information stored and the value of any metadata. This feature is in part useful for keeping the resource usage down and also to aid patient confidentiality by removing patent data that the system is no longer needed to maintain.

It should be noted that in some embodiments the images are to be used for clinical or diagnostic purposes. In such instances it is often required that the image that is ultimately displayed on the device used for viewing the images maintain a certain resolution or image quality. As such in certain embodiments one or more of Parser Event System module and Image Converter can be configured either alone or in combination to recognize that the image is being viewed in a diagnostic or clinical application. Such recognition can be based on information included in the meta data information stored in Image System or information provided via GUI .

For example the address or device identified in the meta data for receiving the image can be recognizable as an address or device associated with a clinical or diagnostic application the image or series identifier can also be associated with a clinical or diagnostic application etc. Alternatively an operator can indicate through GUI that images to be sent are intended for clinical or diagnostic purposes.

When it is determined that the images are to be used for clinical or diagnostic purposes then Image Converter can be configured to determine e.g. based on information stored in storage system the required resolution or image quality. For example resolution image quality or both for various types of images clinical applications etc. can be stored in storage system . Image converter can then determine the correct image resolution and quality and covert the image in accordance therewith. In certain embodiments DCDS can be configured to determine whether the identified output device or address is capable of displaying the converted image with the requisite image resolution and quality before sending the image. If the device or address is not capable then DCDS can generate an error message or other notification indicating such. The error message can be displayed through GUI on the device or both.

As noted above DCDS can be configured to take an incoming medical image file and automatically convert it for distribution to and viewing by any of a plurality of output modalities. is a flow chart illustrating one example embodiment for an automated message creation operation performed by DCDS in accordance with one embodiment. In the example of it is assumed that destination information e.g. output modality information is included in a medical image file received by DCDS . In other embodiments a user can access DCDS e.g. through GUI and specify which files should be sent to which output modalities however a powerful aspect of DCDS as configured in accordance with the systems and methods described herein is its ability to automatically determine the destinations and to convert and format the data appropriately as described below.

In step a file is received and the headers associated therewith are examined to determine various information. The medical image file received by input will often include metadata that provides information related to the medical data or images included therewith. For example in a DICOM file the medical image file will include a header that comprises a plurality of fields. These fields are generally the same for each input modality . Thus DCDS can be configured to examine the header fields to determine various information as described in detail below and with respect to .

In step an output destination type or modality can be determined. For example the header can include information identifying recipients of the images included in the image file. Or more specifically the header can include information identifying output modalities associated with various recipients or services e.g. such as an online photo album page site or service a social networking page or service a mobile device etc. Basic types of destinations can include a mobile device such as a cellphone an email account a Web Application Specific Interface API e.g. associated with an online site or service etc. Thus DCDS can be configured to examine the header file and determine associated output devices or services i.e. modalities.

Whenever possible DCDS can be configured to then retrieve specific characteristics of each destination type as indicated in step . These characteristics can include capabilities and physical characteristics of the destination device and specifications and limitations of the network class and message type. This information is then used to determine the output formatting and other specifications needed for each output modality. For example this information can be used for adaptations of the image data based on specifications for the type of message being sent e.g. e mail has limitations in specification and common practice that can be adapted for and MMS has very different limitations that can be adapt for.

The capabilities and characteristics determined in step can include frame size i.e. pixel dimensions of an image or video e.g. 640 by 480 and the like data rate or data size e.g. MMS messages can commonly not exceed 300 KB total size e mail attachments exceeding 10 MB are often not accepted etc. supported encoding format e.g. mpeg 4 jpeg etc. and message layout rules i.e. how a message can be composed for the destination e.g. MMS is made of pages each able to display a single image or video and a single text along with playing audio while e mail is capable of HTML layouts and can hold attachments of any file type etc.

In step a basic compatibility check can be performed to determine whether the data included in the image file can be delivered in a format compatible with the output modality. For example if the image data includes video data then a determination can be made as to whether the output modality is capable of receiving and displaying video data.

The most suitable delivery format is then chosen in step to ensure the output message that is ultimately generated includes the best quality data that the output modality can handle. This can be important for example in clinical settings or settings where the data is being used for examination or diagnostic purposes. Resolution information suitable for diagnostic purposes and the ability of DCDS to provide such resolution is discussed in detail below.

Then in step the data can be extracted and converted as required. For example MMS messages allow only a very limited total message size. Therefore images or video in particular often need to be adapted and optimized to let the final message meet the format and specification requirements of a particular output modality. In contrast e mail messages often have no strict limit on size and therefore can accept larger files e.g. higher resolution images or video. But even e mail accounts can include rules limiting extremely large files and therefore even e mail messages can require optimization of e.g. video files to ensure sufficient quality but also to comply with size limitations.

If the incoming file is already encoded in a format compatible with the output modality then often no conversion will occur in step in order to preserve the highest possible image quality.

In step the data can be anonymized as required by any applicable anonymization rules. For example the data can be extracted and copied into a generic format so that certain data can be removed redacted etc. The data can then be converted to the final output format. Steps and can be performed in parallel or reverse order as required by a particular implementation.

In step the converted data can then be assembled into an output message in accordance with the applicable formats and specifications determined in the preceding steps. Optionally other data can be included with the message. This information can be manually entered e.g. via GUI or it can be extracted from the metadata accompanying the received file. Still further the data can be data retrieved from configuration settings based on the set of characteristics described above.

In certain embodiments the data components that are to comprise an output message are assembled according to template rules for the type of message being created. For example the various template rules can be stored in Storage System and accessed by Output Module in order to assemble the output message. For example MMS messages are based on a page metaphor where each page can contain an image or video a text element and an audio element. Thus sending two or more images or including text audio or both with the image s will then require the message to be assembled into several pages. By contrast e mail messages can include any number of images attachments etc. depending on e.g. the message size restrictions.

Output Module can then be configured to elect the appropriate output gateway for transmission of the assembled output message in step . For example Output Module can be configured to send an e mail message to a SMTP server not shown and to send an MMS message to a MMS gateway not shown .

In step DCDS can be configured to automatically track and record header fields for each network device sending images. In this way DCDS can identify the specific device associated with an incoming file. DCDS can do this by recording which header fields are present for a particular modality in step and to then record the data included in device dependent header fields for the associated modality in step . A particular device should always report the same values for e.g. manufacturer model name model number etc. Thus DCDS can use this information to identify a particular device.

In step DCDS can detect any changes in the data and then take appropriate action. For example changes to header field data that should not be changed e.g. manufacturer information can be an indication that the file has been tampered with or someone is trying to hack into the system. In response to detection of such changes the system can log the event notify an operator place the incoming data in an approval queue quarantine the data or any further data from the associated device reject the data rejecting the all future data from the device to name just a few possible actions.

In step DCDS can be configured to search the header fields for data that can identify an intended recipient as noted above. Identification can be in the form of an actual e.g. e mail address mobile station International Subscriber Directory Number ISDN web site address etc. In fact such direct identification can be preferable as it takes advantage of the existence of the header fields. Identification can also be indirect such as an ID that can be used to look up a direct address e.g. in a registry stored in storage system . It should also be noted that each field can include more than one piece of data and data of different types. Accordingly any identifying or address fields can include telephone numbers as well as e mail address etc. Further identifying data can be included in more than one field.

The DCDS can be configured to then determine an action to take in step based on any identifying data detected in step . Such actions can include sending an appropriate message to any addresses found formatting messages appropriately as described above notifying an operator adding a message to a queue e.g. for manual approval locating and adding other data or information to an outgoing message to name just a few.

Accordingly is a flow chart that illustrates the operation of DCDS in more detail. Referring to a Conversion Request can be received containing at a minimum an internal identifier for the image and a destination format. As noted above the conversion request can be the result of information and data included in the metadata associated with an incoming file. As noted below however the request can also result from input received through GUI . Optionally the request could contain new image dimensions to be scaled as output image to be sent. The Image Converter can be configured to then determine the existence of the requested image by trying to locate the metadata associated with it in metadata database . If no record exists for the requested image the converter can optionally return a placeholder image or abort the conversion attempt . A placeholder is typically an image video or similar media communicating that the requested image is unavailable. At this point the converter also can also be configured to determine if the requested output format is feasible or not.

If a metadata record in database does exist then the converter can be configured to load the e.g. DICOM image from image storage into a raw binary format. The Converter can be configured to then determine if the image data should be resized to the dimensions provided in the request or to the dimensions required by the requested output format. For example a jpeg preview for the Web GUI could be rendered in any dimensions that are suitable to the layout of the html document while video for MMS messages have very specific dimensions to comply with the specification.

Next the image data can be converted to the requested destination format. The results can be saved to an image cache and metadata records can be updated to indicate the existence of the converted image. Finally the converted images can be returned as a response to the request. Converter can then return either the converted binary data directly or return a reference to its location in the image cache .

As noted DCDS can also be operated and interfaced with through the Web GUI . GUI can enable both remote and local access the DCDS and allows for images to be located within storage system . The images may need to be located or analysis or diagnosis or for sending to a specified destination or address.

Two primary ways for accessing files can be provided. The first way involves finding files without any identifying information. This is explained in detail with respect to however it should first be noted that each device sending files to DCDS can be identified by recording and mapping header fields of incoming file transfers. The devices can also be at least partially identified based on their network address AE titles used for the transfer or both. Each device can then be given a name that is unique and preferable meaningful to operators. Files as well as their series study or both can then be identified by the device they originated from the time and date of the image capture and header fields identifying the operator of the device used to capture the images.

Since no patient information is needed DCDS can handle anonymized data and no patient information can be gathered by the misuse of the system. Further the most used images can be stored as the most recent images in the system. Thus finding images can be made very efficient in this manner. Once the file series study etc. had been found GUI can offer the operator direct access to features for viewing the images sending the images etc.

With this in mind is a flow chart illustrating a typical use of the Web GUI and its streamlined interface for finding an image by the originating modality without any identifiable patient information in accordance with one embodiment. When an image has been identified the interface displays a service request form where the user enters output destination information and other message details. If the data validates the required conversions are requested from the Image Converter . For all successful requests the data is assembled by the appropriate output plug ins and the results are sent to the appropriate destinations. Status information for each individual output is gathered and returned or to the form view for display. At this point the user can choose to repeat the send process or return to finding another image.

The Web GUI allows for sending groups of images that belong to the same e.g. DICOM Series. The operating steps are similar to those illustrated by . The Web GUI also present interfaces for configuring the Event System organizing and storing output destination addresses and other administrative tasks necessary. It is important to note that as a security measure the Web GUI does not handle any authorization of source modalities allowed to store images or access privileges to those images. These important settings are only available through a separate method of access either locally or remotely. With the DCDS running on a Unix style operating system remote access would typically be via the Secure Shell SSH protocol. If the DCDS is running on a Windows operating system remote access would typically be via Terminal Services. Both protocols are examples of secured remote access to the operating system.

The second way to access files is to use identifying information. For example operators can search for files using patient information such as name birth date patient ID etc. The operator can for example input a search term and if there is a match the system can present all available studies. If multiple patients are returned then they can be presented for selection. Once the patient is selected and the associated file series study etc. had been found GUI can offer the operator direct access to features for viewing the images sending the images etc.

In certain embodiments CCS can be interfaced with a server that can be configured to host and support various value added services for e.g. patients and family in relation to the images being captured by modalities as illustrated in . For example if the images are fetal ultrasound images the server can be configured to provide a variety of services for the parents family friends etc. For example the DCDS can be configured to convert the images to a proper format or formats supported by server and the related services. The images can be sent to server and stored in storage system .

It will be understood that server can actually comprise a plurality of servers computers routers etc. as well as the appropriate software and firmware required to carry out the functions described herein. Further storage system can comprise one or more databases one or more storage servers as well as other physical storage mediums as required.

Server can then be configured for example to host a web site on which users can create accounts. The users can then access the images on the site and purchase images pregnancy calendars customized mugs key chains T shirts canvases etc. Further the site can be configure to present pictures illustrations information on fetus and child development health and nutrition tips etc. Such a site can enable such services as a registry e.g. for a baby shower automatic updates to friends and family digital and viral gifts such as baby images with digital lullabies invites and thank you cards etc.

A user can be charged a fee for setting up an account e.g. a subscription fee either one time or periodic the user and family and friends can also be charged for the various products and services or both.

In addition kiosks can be set up e.g. in maternity wards that can provide at least some of the same services. Kiosk can either be stand alone i.e. interfaced directly with CCS or can be interfaced with server as illustrated. Thus family and friends can order pictures and other goods e.g. right in the waiting room.

Further the user can continue to use the account even after the birth of the child. For example the site can track the child throughout its child hood or at least through the first few months or years. The site can be configured to send birthday reminders and announcements to friends and family or to inform of other special events developmental milestones etc. Moreover the site can be configured to continue to present developmental information as well as health and nutrition tips for both mother and child.

In fact it can be preferable to have the parent upload contact information for friends and family. In this manner server can be configured to continue to send birthday reminders to friends and family. In certain embodiments the site hosted by server can be affiliated with or host a gift store offering various products and services. Alternatively or in addition the site can offer discounts coupons etc. to various other business and stores. Since server will have pertinent demographic information related to the child e.g. residence information sex age race and possibly even parents age profession and other affiliations the site can send reminders gift recommendations discount offers etc. that are appropriate for the child and the family popular with similar demographics etc.

In this regard it can be preferable to offer the user the opportunity to provide such demographic information. Thus in one embodiment the user can access the site and customize or provide profile information contacts preferences etc. Algorithms running on server can be configured to then use the information available to make product recommendations etc. In fact since server will have information for individuals all over the world the algorithms can be configured to use information for populations that share similar demographics income levels preferences etc. to make recommendations.

In certain embodiments a user can purchase items through the site i.e. through server . For example server can be configured to accept credit card payment a PayPal account or for mobile billing. Thus server can be configured to process the transaction and either deduct an appropriate fee or charge a related business affiliate partner etc. a transaction fee. Moreover purchase information can also be fed into the algorithms and used to make future recommendations. In fact the purchases of an entire related population can be used to make more targeted and appropriate recommendations.

Thus as a child grows the algorithms can be constantly updated and honed in order to make e.g. gift recommendations. Recommendations that can be automatically sent out to friends and family over the years. As the database grows over time and with more and more users the algorithms can be honed to provide ever more relevant and targeted recommendations.

It should also be noted that the database will necessarily include vast information about the relationships and connections between a large population. This includes direct links such as friends and family but also more indirect links such as preferences similar buying habits etc. This type of interconnection information can be very valuable for targeted advertising and product recommendations as well as for simply tracking and mapping the interconnectedness of a large population.

It should be pointed out that such a site can be built around other conditions or events such as a cancer support site physical therapy support site etc. It should also be pointed out that the merging of interconnectedness data for these various other conditions and events can extend the power of the information and lead to even better algorithms for targeting information and products and services.

It should also be noted that users can access the site via e.g. the Internet using computers and mobile devices . Further the site can be interfaced with other social networking sites such as Twitter Facebook etc. In certain embodiments the site can actually be converted to an application or widget that can be exported to other sites. For example a grandma can place the application on her Facebook page and receive updates and notices more easily without needing to log onto server . This can increase the interaction with the site which can increase for example the amount of information and data available to server as input to the algorithms described above.

While certain embodiments have been described above it will be understood that the embodiments described are by way of example only. Accordingly the systems and methods described herein should not be limited based on the described embodiments. Rather the systems and methods described herein should only be limited in light of the claims that follow when taken in conjunction with the above description and accompanying drawings.

