---

title: System and method for performing LADAR assisted procedures on the lens of an eye
abstract: There is provided a system, apparatus and methods for developing laser systems that can create a precise predetermined jigsaw capsulotomy. The systems, apparatus and methods further provide laser systems that can use a single laser as a therapeutic laser and as laser radar and that reduce the patient-to-patient variability and doctor-to-doctor variability associated with hand held apparatus for performing capsulorhexis and capsulotomies. There is further provided a precise predetermined jigsaw shot pattern and shaped capsulotomy that is based at least in part on the shape of an IOL and in particular an accommodating IOL.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08465478&OS=08465478&RS=08465478
owner: LensAR, Inc.
number: 08465478
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100726
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e 1 of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 228 506 titled System and Method for Performing a LADAR Assisted Capsulotomy filed Jul. 24 2009 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to methods and systems for providing a laser to the natural human crystalline lens to address cataracts opacifications in the lens clear lens extraction removal of natural lens material use of lens replacement materials and combinations of these. The present invention additionally relates to systems and methods that provide predetermined precise and reproducible laser shot patterns for creating cuts in the structures of the eye in predetermined and precise shapes that are reproducible from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon.

In general presbyopia is the loss of accommodative amplitude. In generally cataracts are areas of opacification within the crystalline lens which are sufficient to interfere with vision. Other conditions for which the present invention is directed include but are not limited to the opacification of the crystalline lens.

Presbyopia most often presents as a near vision deficiency the inability to read small print especially in dim lighting after about 40 45 years of age. Presbyopia or the loss of accommodative amplitude with age relates to the eyes inability to change the shape of the natural crystalline lens which allows a person to change focus between far and near and occurs in essentially 100 of the population over age 45. Accommodative amplitude has been shown to decline with age steadily through the fifth decade of life.

Cataracts or the condition when the natural crystalline lens becomes opaque and clouds vision occurs in millions of people per year and are treated effectively with surgical techniques such as ultrasonic phacoemulsification pioneered by Kelman 40 years ago. Although the techniques have been refined over the years safety concerns from ocular trauma especially to the corneal endothelium from the ultrasonic energy required to break up a hardened cataract is undesirable especially for those with a compromised corneal endothelium such as those with Fuchs Dystrophy. Moreover the use of lasers in the treatment of cataracts has a further issue. Cataracts scatter light including laser light and thus can prevent a laser treatment beam from having the desired tissue effect. Moreover the light scattering effect of cataracts and other opacifications can make optically determining the position and shape of the lens difficult. Accordingly as provided in detail in this specification herein improvements in the determination of the lens position and shape as well as in the delivery of lasers to lens tissues including the lens capsule cataractous and opacified tissues are provided.

The established treatment for cataracts is the removal of the opacified human crystalline lens and its replacement with an intra ocular lens IOL. In general IOLs consist of a small plastic lens with plastic side struts called haptics to hold the lens in place within the capsular bag inside the eye. Exemplary types of IOLs include monofocal lenses multifocal IOLs which provide the patient with multiple focused vision at far and reading distance and accommodative IOLs which provide the patient with visual accommodation. The flexible nature of many IOLs enables them to be rolled and or folded up for insertion into the capsule. Examples of IOLs are found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 188 949 6 849 091 5 699 142 and 5 607 472 the entire disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Commercially available IOLs that by way of example may benefit from the present invention are CRYSTALENS and ACRYSOF RESTOR.

A schematic representation of the shape and general structure of an example of an accommodating IOL along the lines of a CRYSTALENS is provided in . This IOL has a lens structure hinges located adjacent to the lens structure and haptics which contact the lens capsule . The overall shape of this IOL would be non geometric. As used herein the term non geometric shape refers to shapes other than circles ellipses squares and rectangles. As used herein the term geometric shape refers to circles ellipses squares and rectangles.

The CRYSTALENS IOL was developed by Eyeonics and is presently provided by Bausch Lomb. It is at least in part believed to be disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 091. Further information regarding its structure and efficacy is provided by the Food and Drug Administration FDA PMA P030002 and related documents to that PMA file. The FDA approved indicated use for CRYSTALENS was in part The Crystalens Model AT 45 Accommodating IOL is intended for primary implantation in the capsular bag of the eye for visual correction of aphakia in adult patients in whom a cataractous lens has been removed and is intended to provide near intermediate and distance vision without spectacles. The Crystalens IOL provides approximately one diopter of monocular accommodation. Nov. 14 2003 PMA P030002 at Part 2 Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data INDICATIONS FOR USE .

Thus the CRYSTALENS is an example of an FDA approved accommodating IOL. The term FDA approved accommodating IOL refers to any IOL that has obtained FDA approval having an indicated use that provides for accommodation regardless whether such IOL is actually being employed for such an approved use.

The ACRYSOF RESTOR IOL is provided by Alcon and is at least in part believed to be disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 669 142. Further information regarding its structure and efficacy is provided by FDA PMA P040020 and related documents to that PMA file. The FDA approved use for RESTOR was in part AcrySOF ReSTOR IOLs are indicated for the visual correction of aphakia secondary to removal of a cataractous lens in adult patients with and without presbyopia who desire near intermediate and distance vision with increased spectacle independence. The lens is intended to be placed in the capsular bag. Apr. 24 2004 PMA P040020 at Part 2 Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data INDICATIONS .

Thus the RESTOR is an example of an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision. The term FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision refers to any IOL that has obtained FDA approval having an indicated use that provides for near intermediate and distance vision regardless whether such IOL is actually being employed for such an approved use. The CRYSTALENS would also be an example of an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision. Moreover the RESTOR and CRYSTALENS are examples of an FDA approved IOLs that reduce and or eliminate the need for spectacles.

Once the initial incision has been made the removal of the opacified natural crystalline lens and replacement with a lens replacement material such as an FDA approved IOL presently employ a capsulorhexis and or a capsulotomy. A capsulorhexis generally consists of the removal of a part of the anterior lens capsule and the creation of a hole or opening in the lens capsule that results at least in part from a tearing action. A capsulotomy generally consists of a cutting of the lens capsule without or with minimum tearing of the capsule. Thus to remove the opacified natural lens material the lens capsule is opened. There are several known techniques for performing a capsulorhexis and a capsulotomy.

One of these capsulorhexis techniques is a can opener approach. This approach uses a small bent needle to make small incisions around the anterior lens capsule to create an opening in the lens through which the lens could be removed. This technique quite often results in the opening in the lens capsule having ragged edges. Another of these techniques is a Continuous Curvilinear Capsulorhexis CCC . CCC uses the same type of bent needle to begin the tear in the anterior lens capsule and then uses this needle and or special forceps which are guided under the edge of the cut to create the hole in the lens capsule. CCC in comparison to the can opener approach reduces the ragged edge around the opening in the lens that occurred with using the can opener technique. However CCC does not eliminate the formation of these ragged edges and their presence is dependent upon surgical skill and technique.

The use of a Fugo plasma blade to create the hole in the anterior capsule may also be used. This technique is referred to as a capsulotomy. The Fugo plasma blade is a hand held device and was originally utilized in dentistry. It is an electro magnetic device that focuses its energy on a blunt cutting filament. Information regarding the Fugo plasma blade can be found in FDA PMA K063468 K001498 K041019 and K050933.

To date is it believed that all prior techniques and apparatus and in particular all prior FDA approved apparatus for creating an opening in the anterior capsule of the lens have to varying degrees given rise to surgeon to surgeon and patient to patient irregularities. These irregularities have given rise to slower or less desirable wound healing and results. The prior techniques and apparatus for creating an opening in the anterior capsule of the lens have further and to varying degrees given rise to irregular shapes ragged edges jagged edges or tags in or along the edge of the opening and or combinations of these edge features. Moreover it is believed that all of these prior techniques and apparatus which are performed by hand in general can only produce cuts or holes in the shape of a circle or an ellipse i.e. they can only be used to provide geometric shapes and cannot be used to provide non geometric shaped cuts. Further because these are hand held devices the shape of these cuts varies from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon. Thus it is not believed that these hand held devices and non automated techniques can provide the precise predetermined capsulotomy of the present invention.

The presence of the above described irregularities can present difficulties and problems. Further the above described edge features the inability to create precise predetermined and reproducible shaped cuts and the variability associated with prior techniques and apparatus for performing capsulotomies and capsulorhexises are individually and collectively undesirable and can present difficulties and problems especially with the use of accommodative IOLs. Furthermore the limited number of shapes for capsulotomies and capsulorhexis and the variability associated with these prior techniques is believed to be an impediment to the development of new accommodative IOLs. It is further believed that this limited number of shapes and variability is an impediment to the amount of accommodation that can be obtained from presently known IOLs and the instances where little to no accommodation is realized by the patient.

It is desirable to develop systems that would reduce or eliminate these undesirable edge features provide greater control in the creation of the incisions and to make these improvements patient and surgeon independent or at least reduce the variability from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon associated with the formation of these undesirable features that is found with the use of present techniques and tools. The novel and improved methods and systems for the performance of incisions in the natural crystalline human lens also at times referred to herein as the lens the natural lens the human lens and the crystalline lens which include aspects of the present inventions and which are set forth in detail in the present patent specification may provide for better implementation of other methods and systems for delivering laser beams to the lens of the eye such as those disclosed in published patent applications US 2007 173794A1 US 2007 173795A1 US 2007 185475A1 WO 2007 084694 A2 now U.S. Ser. No. 12 217 295 and WO 2007 084627A2 now U.S. Ser. No. 12 217 285 the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference The present invention among other things solves this need by providing greater control in the creation of precise and predetermined capsulotomies which provides benefits including greater precision in determining the position of the edge of the hole greater uniformity of the edge of the hole and by providing improvements in the ability to reduce the occurrence of undesirable edge features and to do so in a manner that is less surgeon and patient dependent. Thus there is provided herein a system and method to perform the claimed invention.

Thus there is provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in a capsule of a lens of an eye the system including a laser for producing a laser beam an optical path for directing the laser beam from the laser to the lens of the eye and a control system for at least directing the laser beam in a predetermined jigsaw capsulotomy pattern having a plurality of laser shots positioned in the x y and z directions as they are directed toward the lens of the eye. Moreover in this system the laser beam may include a first power below LIOB and a second power at or above LIOB the system may further have the first power used as laser radar to determine the position of the anterior capsule of the lens of the eye and the second power is used to cut the lens capsule whereby the second power performs the capsulotomy and still further may have the laser beam shots alternated between a series of shots at the first power and a series of shots at the second power along the predetermined jigsaw capsulotomy pattern and still further may have the majority of the second power shots are placed substantially in the area of the anterior portion of the lens capsule.

There is also provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in a capsule of a lens of an eye the system including a laser for producing a laser beam an optical path for directing the laser beam from the laser to the lens of the eye and a control system for at least directing the laser beam in a predetermined jigsaw capsulotomy pattern having a plurality of laser shots positioned in the x y and z directions as they are directed toward the lens of the eye in which the predetermined shot pattern includes a first essentially straight section a second essentially straight section a first curved section and a second curved section and the first essentially straight section is connected to the second and third curved sections which may still further have the shape of the predetermined shot pattern is based at least in part on the shape of an IOL the IOL including a hinge and the pattern essentially following the shape of the IOL.

There is additionally provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in the capsule of the lens of the eye the system including a laser for producing a laser beam an optical path for directing the laser beam from the laser to the lens of the eye the laser beam having a first power below LIOB and a second power above LIOB a control system for at least directing the laser beam in a predetermined shaped shot pattern on a portion of the anterior capsule of the lens of the eye to create a precise predetermined non geometric shaped capsulotomy and the shot pattern shape being based at least in part on the shape of an IOL.

There is additionally provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in the capsule of the lens of the eye the system including a therapeutic laser for producing a therapeutic laser beam an optical path for directing the therapeutic laser beam from the therapeutic laser to the lens of the eye a control system for at least directing the laser beam in a predetermined jigsaw capsulotomy patterns having a plurality of laser shots positioned in the x y and z directions as they are directed toward the lens of the eye a first pattern positioned in a first area of the anterior capsule of the lens of the eye the first pattern having a z direction sweep range less than about 15 m a second pattern positioned in a second area of the anterior capsule of the lens of the eye the second are is anterior to the first area the second pattern having a z direction sweep range of less than about 15 m.

Moreover there is provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in the capsule of the lens of the eye the system including a therapeutic laser for producing a therapeutic laser beam an optical path for directing the therapeutic laser beam from the therapeutic laser to the lens of the eye a control system for at least directing the laser beam in a predetermined jigsaw capsulotomy patterns having a plurality of laser shots positioned in the x y and z directions as they are directed toward the lens of the eye and the pattern consisting essential of a plurality of single z direction sweeps wherein all the shots in each single z direction sweep overlap in the x y dimensions.

Yet further there is provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in the capsule of the lens of the eye the system including a therapeutic laser for producing a therapeutic laser beam an optical path for directing the therapeutic laser beam from the therapeutic laser to the lens of the eye a control system for at least directing the laser beam in a predetermined jigsaw capsulotomy patterns having a plurality of laser shots positioned in the x y and z directions as they are directed toward the lens of the eye and the pattern including a plurality of single z direction sweeps each single direction z direction sweep consisting essential of shots that overlap in the x y dimensions.

Still further there is provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in the capsule of the lens of the eye the system including a therapeutic laser for producing a therapeutic laser beam an optical path for directing the therapeutic laser beam from the therapeutic laser to the lens of the eye a control system for at least directing the laser beam in a predetermined jigsaw capsulotomy patterns having a plurality of laser shots positioned in the x y and z directions as they are directed toward the lens of the eye and the pattern including a plurality of single z direction sweeps wherein the shots in a single z direction sweep overlap in the x y dimensions.

These forgoing systems may further have the predetermined shot pattern includes at least one essentially straight section the predetermined shot pattern includes at least two essentially straight sections the predetermined shot pattern has a first essentially straight section a second essentially straight section a first curved section and a second curved section or the predetermined shot pattern includes a first essentially straight section a second essentially straight section a first curved section and a second curved section and the first essentially straight section is connected to the second and third curved sections the predetermined shot pattern is a jigsaw pattern the IOL is an FDA approved accommodating IOL the IOL is an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision the IOL is an FDA approved IOL that reduces or eliminates the need for spectacles the shot patterns shape is based at least in part on the shape of an IOL the IOL having at least one hinge and the shot patterns essentially following the shape of the IOL the z direction sweep range less than about 10 m and or the z direction sweep range less than about 5 m.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize based on the teachings set forth in these specifications and drawings that there are various embodiments and implementations of these teachings to practice the present invention. Accordingly the embodiments in this summary are not meant to limit these teachings in any way.

In general the present inventions relates to methods and systems for providing a laser to the natural human crystalline lens to address cataracts opacifications in the lens clear lens extraction removal of natural lens material replacement of that material with replacement material and combinations of these. The present invention further relates to systems and techniques to provide other cuts to the structures of the eye which cuts are associated with the removal and replacement of natural lens material and subsequent treatment of the eye and which systems and methods are disclosed in part in applications which are incorporated in this specification by reference.

The present methods and systems can be used with the novel and innovative laser system techniques that are the subject of the co pending patent applications that are cited herein and which have been incorporated herein by reference and the present methods and systems may possibly be used with other laser delivery systems for the removal of lens material to the extent such systems may be developed in the future. Preferably the present methods and systems can be incorporated into and used in conjunction with the systems of the co pending applications that have been incorporated herein by reference. In this way a single system with a single therapeutic laser can function as a start to finish device for performing the cuts necessary to remove and replace the natural lens.

Novel and pioneering laser systems and methods for the removal and replace of lens material are disclosed in U.S. provisional and regular applications Ser. No. 61 228 560 System and Method for Providing Laser Shot Patterns to the Lens of an Eye Ser. No. 61 228 484 System and Method for Performing and Sealing Limbal Area Incisions in the Eye filed on Jul. 25 2009 and Ser. No. 61 228 514 System and Method for Performing Corrective Arcuate Incisions in the Eye Ser. No. 12 509 412 Method and System for Removal and Replacement of Lens Material from the Lens of an Eye and Ser. No. 12 509 211 Method and System for Creating a Bubble Shield for Laser Lens Procedures which were filed on Jul. 24 2009 the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Thus in general a laser system i.e. a laser device for treating patients is provided as shown by way of example in . In this system there is provided a treatment laser optics for delivering the laser beam a control system for delivering the laser beam to the lens in a particular pattern which control system is associated with and or interfaces with the other components of the system as shown for example by dashed lines in and or other control systems not shown in .

In general the treatment laser should provide a beam that is of a wavelength that transmits through the cornea aqueous and lens. The beam should be of a short pulse width together with the energy and beam size to produce photodisruption. Thus as used herein the term laser shot or shot refers to a laser beam pulse delivered to a location that results in photodisruption. As used herein the term photodisruption essentially refers to the creation of a microscopic shock wave at laser beam focus and conversion of matter to a gas by the laser. The term photodisruption has also been generally associated with Laser Induced Optical Breakdown LIOB . In particular wavelengths of about 300 nm to 2500 nm may be employed. Pulse widths from about 1 femtosecond to 100 picoseconds may be employed. Energies from about a 1 nanojoule to 1 millijoule may be employed. The pulse rate also referred to as pulse repetition frequency PRF and pulses per second measured in Hertz may be from about 1 KHz to several GHz. Generally lower pulse rates correspond to higher pulse energy in commercial laser devices. A wide variety of laser types may be used to cause photodisruption of ocular tissues dependent upon pulse width and energy density. Thus examples of such lasers are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 084694 A2 and WO 2007 084627A2 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. These and other similar lasers may be used a therapeutic lasers.

In general the optics for delivering the laser beam to the structures of the eye including the natural lens of the eye should be capable of providing a series of shots to the natural lens in a precise and predetermined pattern in the x y and z dimensions. The z dimension as used herein refers to that dimension which has an axis that corresponds to or is essentially parallel with the optical AP axis of the eye. The optics should also provide a predetermined beam spot size to cause photodisruption with the laser energy reaching the natural lens.

In general the control system for delivering the laser beam may be any computer controller and or software hardware combination that is capable of selecting and controlling x y z scanning parameters and laser firing. These components may typically be associated at least in part with circuit boards that interface to the x y scanner the z focusing device and or the laser. The control system may also but does not necessarily have the further capabilities of controlling the other components of the system as well as maintaining data obtaining data and performing calculations. Thus the control system may contain the programs that direct the laser through one or more laser shot patterns. Similarly the control system may be capable of processing data from the biometric slit scanned laser and or from a separate controller for the slit scanned laser system. The slit scanned laser system is a system used to measure the position of optical surfaces within the eye such as the anterior and posterior lens and corneal surfaces or other eye features such as crystalline lens cataracts. Such measurements are used by the control system to generate patterns of laser shots to perform the desired crystalline lens incisions.

The laser optics for delivering the laser beam includes a beam expander telescope a z focus mechanism a beam combiner an x y scanner and focusing optics . There is further provided relay optics camera optics which include a zoom and a first ccd camera .

Optical images of the eye and in particular optical images of the natural lens of the eye are conveyed along a path . This path follows the same path as the laser beam from the natural lens through the laser patient interface the focusing optics the x y scanner and the beam combiner . There is further provided a laser patient interface and a structured light source and a structured light camera including a lens. Examples of patient interface and related apparatus that are useful with the present system are provided in application Ser. No. 12 509 021 Liquid Filled Index Matching Device for Ophthalmic Laser Procedures Ser. No. 61 228 457 Liquid Holding Interface Device for Ophthalmic Laser Procedures filed Jul. 24 2009 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 840 818 filed on Jul. 21 2010 the entire disclosures of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A structured light source may be a slit illumination having focusing and structured light projection optics such as a Schafter Kirchhoff Laser Macro Line Generator Model 13LTM 90CM Type 13LTM 250S 41 90CM M60 780 5 Y03 C 6 or a StockerYale Model SNF 501 L 660 20 5 which is also referred to as a slit scanned laser. In this embodiment the structured illumination source also includes slit scanning means .

When using a scanned slit illumination the operation includes positioning the slit on one side of the lens taking an image then moving the slit approximately one slit width then taking another image and then repeating this sequence until the entire lens is observed. For example a 100 m slit width can scan a nominal 9 mm dilated pupil diameter in 90 images which takes approximately 3 seconds using a 30 Hz frame rate camera. To obtain images of the anterior surface in a single image without overlap the slit should be at an angle to the axis of the structured light camera i.e. it should not be parallel to that axis. The nominal slit angle can be approximately 30 60 degrees from the structured light camera axis. Any visible or near IR wavelength source within the sensitivity of the camera may be used. Low coherence length sources are preferable to reduce speckle noise in the structured camera image.

The structured light illumination source and the structured light camera are arranged in an angled relationship. The angled relationship which may include angling the detector of the structure light camera with respect to the axis of the camera optics may be but is not required to be in the so called Scheimpflug configuration which is well known. The structured light source in conjunction with the slit scanning means projects a line and or a plurality of lines onto the cornea and crystalline lens at an angle or plurality of angles. The light scattered from these objects is focused by the lens and focused onto the camera system . Since the slit illuminated image of the cornea and lens may be at a large angle with respect to the camera this presents a large depth of field to the camera and the entire slit image may not be in sharp focus at the camera. By tilting the camera at an angle or plurality of angles the image along the illuminated plane can be in sharper focus. To the extent that a sharp focus is not obtained arithmetic data evaluation means are further provided herein to determine a more precise location of the illuminated structures with respect to the laser device.

Alternatively the structured light illumination source may be a focused beam whose point of focus is scanned throughout the regions of interest within the eye. The scanned path of the beam might simulate the area illuminated by the scanned slit illumination described above by executing a raster scan of a plane of the eye analogous to that illuminated by the slit laser. In this context raster scan refers to a process in which the beam focus is scanned row by row to illuminate a section of the eye. In this case the camera s detector would be exposed to the scattered light from the scanned beam for the whole duration of the raster scan.

The images from the camera may be conveyed to the controller for processing and further use in the operation of the system. They may also be sent to a separate processor and or controller which in turn communicates with the controller . The structured light source the camera and the slit scanning means include a means for determining the position of the crystalline lens and corneal surfaces in relation to the laser system and thus include a means for determining the position and apex of the lens in relation to the laser system.

In general the present invention provides for the delivery of the laser beam in patterns that utilize or are based at least in part on lens geometry curvature of the lens and or the position and location of the lens with respect various apparatus. As part of the present invention the concept of matching and or compensating for the curvature and position of the capsule of the lens is provided. Anterior and posterior curvatures can be based on Kuszak aged lens models Burd s numeric modeling Burd et al. Vision Research 42 2002 2235 2251 or on specific lens measurements. Thus in general these laser delivery patterns are based in whole and or in part on the mathematical modeling and actual observation data regarding the shape of the lens the position of the lens and or the geometry of the lens.

The delivery of laser shot patterns for the removal of lens material is provided. Thus there are provided novel methods and systems for producing cuts i.e. incisions in the anterior lens capsule. These cuts are created by the therapeutic laser beam being delivered to the anterior lens capsule in precise predetermined and highly reproducible patterns delivery results in precise predetermined and highly reproducible shaped cuts in patterns as described and taught herein or as may be called for by the use of a particular IOL or other device or material to be inserted within the lens capsule. As used herein geometric shaped patterns or cuts refer to circular and elliptical shaped patterns or cuts. As used herein non geometric shaped patterns or cuts refer to all other shapes that are not circular or elliptical.

The methods and systems to create these cuts in the anterior capsule provide superior results to the handheld methods and apparatus previously known for performing capsulorhexus and capsulotomy and thus the methods and systems disclosed herein are considered to be a substantial advancement in these techniques. In addition the delivery of the laser beam shots in a manner that greatly reduces the risk of a missed cut which depending upon the particular application may be very significant is provided. Moreover as provided in the following examples anterior capsule cuts are envisioned and provided that may be a continuous cuts cuts and lands uncut capsule portions between cuts and perforations. Thus as used herein the terms missed cut or missed cuts refer to a cut that was intended to be carried out by the delivery of a particular laser shot pattern but which did not occur because the laser beam missed the lens capsule or targeted lens material or the targeted material was hit but not cut. Thus in a cut and land pattern the lands would not be considered missed cuts if they were intended to be left uncut by the laser pattern.

The cuts in the lens anterior surface are for the purpose of creating an opening in the lens capsule for the remove of the interior structures of the lens. To facilitate this removal there are provided various laser shot patterns that cut the interior structure of the lens into small volumes which volumes can then be removed from the lens capsule. These small volumes can range from about 1 mmto about 16 mmand more preferably from about 2.5 mmto about 4 mm. Thus a grid laser shot pattern within the interior structures of the lens which creates cube shaped volumes of interior lens material can be employed. These cubes can range in size from a side having a length of about 100 m to about 3 mm to about 4 mm with about 500 m to 2 mm being a preferred size. An ideal size for the volumetric shapes is one in which the dimensions of the volumetric shape roughly match the size of the opening at the distal end of the aspiration tube. This enables the individual volumetric shape pieces to be easily aspirated into the aspiration tube without or with minimal use of ultrasound energy. Volumetric shape pieces that are substantially smaller than the opening in the aspiration tube require more laser shots without added significant benefit. Additionally this invention is not limited to the formation of cubes and other volumetric shapes of similar general size may be employed. For example arrangement of other shapes such as triangles and pie sliced volumes may be employed.

The laser cut in the anterior capsule is used to create a small opening in the lens anterior surface of the lens capsule for removal of the sectioned volumes of interior material. Thus this procedure may be used to treat cataracts. This procedure may also be used to remove a lens having opacification that has not progressed to the point of being cataractous. This procedure may further be used to remove a natural lens that is clear but which has lost its ability to accommodate. In all of the above scenarios it being understood that upon removal of the lens material the lens capsule would subsequently house a suitable replacement such as an IOL accommodative IOL or synthetic lens refilling materials. Moreover the size and the shape of the opening is variable and precisely controlled and preferably for presently know lens refilling materials and IOLs is 2 mm or less diameter for lens refilling applications and about 5 mm for IOLs.

The order in which these activities are performed may depend upon the particular characteristics of the internal lens structure the density of the cataract the position of the cataract the type of device used to remove the internal lens material once it has been sectioned into small volumes the type and power of the laser used the amount and size of gas bubbles that are produced by the laser and other factors. Thus although the examples herein provide for an order of performing the activity of cutting the anterior surface of the lens and sectioning the interior structures of the lens it should be recognized that this order can be changed as well as performed essentially simultaneously or simultaneously.

The laser system for treating patients of the present invention is capable of making precise and predetermined cuts in the capsule of the lens thus giving rise to capsulotomies that are of precise and predetermined shapes. Thus there is provided the method of obtaining and analyzing the shape and structure of an IOL and in particular obtaining and analyzing the shape and structure of an accommodating IOL an IOL that reduces and or eliminates the need for spectacles and or an IOL for near intermediate and distance vision including but limited to FDA approved versions of said IOLs. Based upon this analysis an optimized shape and position for the capsulotomy for use with a particular IOL or grouping of similarly shaped IOLs is determined. A predetermined shot pattern for making this optimized shaped capsulotomy is then provided to the laser system preferably by providing the shot pattern to the control system . The laser system can then be used for an one or all of the following procedures determining the shape and position of the anterior surface of the lens and in particular the anterior surface of the lens capsule determining the apex of the lens capsule in relation to the laser system performing a laser capsulotomy having the precise and predetermined shape selected for a particular type of IOL and removal of the natural lens material.

Thus for example the shape of a precise capsulotomy and its corresponding shot pattern may consist of essentially straight sides which each side being connected by curved or rounded sections. An example of this type of predetermined cut is illustrated in . Thus there is provided in a lens capsule which x and y axis and respectively shown in this figure for reference purposes. There is further illustrated a predetermined shot pattern having essentially straight sections which are connected by curved sections . The shot pattern of would be an example of a non geometric shaped pattern as that term is used herein. This shot pattern when implemented by the laser system provides a precise predetermined cut in the lens capsule a precise predetermined opening in the lens capsule and a precise predetermined capsulotomy of the shape illustrated in this figure. The essentially straight sections of the predetermined shot pattern may be from about 0.25 mm to about 4.5 mm. As used herein any section of an opening capsulotomy cut or shot pattern that is essentially straight for a length of more that 0.2 mm is considered to be an essentially straight section of a cut or pattern.

The precise and predetermined shot pattern opening capsulotomy and cut may have only a single straight section or it may have two three four five or more. Moreover in addition to essentially straight sections there may be sections in which the radius of curvature is substantially reduced in comparison to other section of the pattern opening capsulotomy or cut. Thus for example as shown in there is provided a lens capsule which x and y axis and respectively shown in this figure for reference purposes. There is further illustrated a predetermined shot pattern which when implemented by the laser system will create a precise predetermined cut i.e. capsulotomy having two essentially straight sections four curved sections and two section having a substantially increased radius of curvature . Accordingly each essentially straight section is connected to a substantially increased radius of curvature section by a curved section .

Thus there is provided techniques systems and apparatus to deliver laser beam in a shot pattern to the lens of the eye and in particular to the capsule of the lens of the eye in a precise and predetermined manner to provided for a precise predetermined capsulotomy. The shape of these patterns may be delivered using either the jigsaw or ring delivery sequences provided herein.

When performing laser assisted cataract surgery the process of cutting the nucleus with a photodisruption laser can cause a buildup of gas bubbles sufficiently near the soft cortex to allow the gas bubbles to propagate toward the capsule. In those situations where bubbles collect in close proximity to the anterior capsule when the laser attempts to cut the capsulotomy the sudden release of bubbles my change the position of the anterior capsule during the delivery of the laser shot pattern causing the laser to miss the capsule resulting in missed cuts at least partially around the circumference of the capsulotomy. To solve this problem there is provided herein a special cutting pattern that is less dependent of capsule position versus time and provides cutting of the capsule despite position changes of the capsule during the laser capsulotomy procedure. Thus resulting in substantially reduced or no missed cuts.

There is provided herein the use of laser shot patterns having a large range of Z swept at a high rate of speed while the X Y position is moved in a circular or elliptical or other pattern or desired shape more slowly so that the laser cutting action occurs multiple times over essentially the same X Y position. Thus it could be envisioned that the laser beam is operating like the tip of a jigsaw blade moving up and down rapidly compared to the X Y positioning to create the cut shape. In this way if the anterior capsule shifts during the cut due to gas bubble propagation or any other reason the cut will still be made to the capsule albeit perhaps outside the center region of the z direction up down distribution of shots and more to the anterior or posterior ends of that distribution. For laser cutting of the nucleus where a great deal of bubble buildup is created a Z range or up down range of the cut should be approximately 1 mm in extent nominally centered on the anterior capsule which would allow approximately 475 m of capsule movement and still provide cutting of a 25 m thick capsule.

In addition to enabling cutting of a capsule that moves move during the procedure this procedure can be used to compensate for static errors in capsule position due to for example measurement errors. In this way the extent of the Z range may be increased by the known error of the system.

In addition to the large Z range sweeps disclosed herein there is also contemplated the use of a smaller Z range of cut motion for the case where the uncertainty in capsule position from both static measurement error and anticipated change in position might be smaller perhaps in the range of hundreds of m or in the case of highly precise measurement data and near zero movement of the capsule during surgery. In such a case the Z range could be tens of m enough range to cut through the capsule thickness.

The Z range sweep in the capsulotomy shot pattern provides for the ability to optimize laser surgery efficiency in cataract removal procedures. Thus the nucleus of the lens can be sectioned into small volumes before the capsulotomy is performed. In this way any gas bubbles that are formed by the sectioning of the nucleus will be trapped within the capsule. By keeping the gas bubbles inside of the capsule their effect on laser delivery is reduced when compared to their effect if they escape from the capsule and migrate into the aqueous or collect and build up next to the posterior of the cornea. The detrimental effect of shooting the laser beam through a bubble increases as the distance that the beam has to travel after passing through the bubble before reaching its intended point increases. Thus by trapping the bubble in the capsule this distance is keep to an absolute minimum and thus the detrimental effect of shooting through the bubbles is similarly minimized.

The accumulation of bubbles within the capsule however increases the likelihood that the lens and or capsule will shift during the capsulotomy as the bubbles escape through the cuts in the lens capsule. As noted above this shifting could result in missed cuts and an incomplete capsulotomy. Thus the Z range sweep avoids any missed cuts from lens or capsule movement and accordingly provides the synergistic advantages of increased laser efficiency reduced detrimental effect of gas bubbles and reduced missed cuts in the capsulotomy.

Thus there is provided a system and method to optimize laser surgery efficiency in an embodiment of the present invention by allowing the nucleus to be cut first and the gas bubbles formed from such cutting contained within the capsule until the capsulotomy is performed. The containing of the gas bubbles within the capsule avoids having to shoot through bubbles in the anterior chamber caused but creating the capsulotomy first. This solution however can lead to the accumulation of bubbles inside the fibrous mass of the lens which may cause the capsule to move during capsulotomy. To address this potential movement the invention further provides for the varying z direction movement of the laser beam. However it is also understood that one case where the uncertainty of capsule movement is small is the case where the capsulotomy is laser cut prior to the cutting of the nucleus material and no bubbles have been placed in the lens. In this case if the uncertainty in position is sufficiently small that the extent of the z range is sufficiently small so that only a superficial amount of bubbles may be present in the anterior chamber which may not interfere with laser cutting of the nucleus. It should further be understood that when referring to a sequence of cutting structures such as described in this paragraph that the sequence is meet when a substantial majority of the cuts are performed in the one structure before another structure i.e. the placement of a few laser shots in an other structures during delivery of the shot pattern to the first structure will not prevent the first structure from being considered the first structure in the sequence.

Further methods and systems to define a high accuracy position measurement of structures of the eye and in particular the anterior capsule so as to provide in general greater accuracy precisions and reproducibility from patient to patient for procedures on the eye and in particular capsulotomies is provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 509 412 Method and System for Removal and Replacement of Lens Material from the Lens of an Eye filed on Jul. 24 2009 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A further optimization of the method and system to enhance flexibility regarding the aspiration of lens material from the lens capsule is provided. In sectioning the lens material it is possible that the some of the cut fragments of the fibrous mass may escape the capsular bag either by floating or because of gas bubbles or just naturally unless means of preventing such escape are provided. Therefore another aspect of the present method and system is to provide a means to restrain these fragments until they are ready to be aspirated out. Such a means is provided by performing only a partial cut of the capsule leaving the capsule flap attached to serve as a restraint preventing and or reducing the escape of sectioned lens material. Once aspiration is called for the partial cut to the capsule can be completed i.e. the capsulotomy is completed and the section lens material aspirated out of the lens capsule.

In all of the laser shot patterns provided herein it is preferred that the laser shot patterns generally follow the shape of the lens and placement of individual shots with respect to adjacent shots in the pattern are sufficiently close enough to each other such that when the pattern is complete a sufficiently continuous layer and or line and or volume of lens material has been removed. Shot spacing of lesser or greater distances are contemplated herein and including overlap as necessary to obtain the desired results. Shot spacing considerations include gas bubble dissipation volume removal efficiency sequencing efficiency scanner performance and cleaving efficiency among others. For example by way of illustration for a 5 m size spot with an energy sufficient to cause photodisruption a spacing of 20 m or greater results in individual gas bubbles which are not coalesced and dissipate more quickly than with close shot spaces with the same energy which result in gas bubble coalescence. As the shot spacing gets closer together volume efficiency increases. As shot spacing gets closer together bubble coalescence also increases. Further there comes a point where the shot spacing becomes so close that volume efficiency dramatically decreases. For example by way of illustration for a 450 femtosecond pulse width and 2 microjoules energy and about a 5 m spot size with a 10 m separation results in cleaving of transparent ocular tissue. As used herein the term cleaving means to substantially separate the tissue. Moreover the forgoing shot spacing considerations are interrelated to a lesser or greater extent and one of skill in the art will know how to evaluate these conditions based upon the teachings of the present disclosure to accomplish the objectives herein. Finally it is contemplated that the placement of individual shots with respect to adjacent shots in the pattern may in general be such that they are as close as possible typically limited by the size and time frame of photodisruption physics which would include among other things gas bubble expansion of the previous shot. As used herein the time frame of photodisruptive physics refers to the effects that take place surrounding photodisruption such as plasma formation and expansion shock waive propagation and gas bubble expansion and contraction. Thus the timing of sequential pulses such that they are timed faster than some of elements of or all of those effects can increase volumetric removal and or cleaving efficiency. Accordingly we propose using pulse repetition frequencies from 50 MHz to 5 GHz which could be accomplished by a laser with the following parameters a mode lock laser of cavity length from 3 meters to 3 cm. Such high PRF lasers can more easily produce multiple pulses overlapping a location allowing for a lower energy per pulse to achieve photodisruption.

The terms first second third etc. as used herein are relative terms and must be viewed in the context in which they are used. They do not relate to timing unless specifically referred to as such. Thus a first cut may be made after a second cut. In general it is preferred to fire laser shots in general from posterior points in the laser pattern to anterior points to avoid and or minimize the effect of the gas bubbles resulting from prior laser shots. However because of the varied laser shot patterns that are provided herein it is not a requirement that a strict posterior to anterior shot sequence be followed. Moreover in the case of cataracts it may be advantageous to shoot from anterior to posterior because of the inability of the laser to penetrate substantially beyond the cataract.

Thus there is provided a method for the structural modification of the lens material to make it easier to remove while potentially increasing the safety of the procedure by reducing and or eliminating the need to use high frequency ultrasonic energy used in Phaco emulsification. In general the use of photodissruption cutting in a specific shape patterns is utilized to create sectioned lens material i.e. to carve up the lens material into sectioned volumetric shapes such as the tiny cube like structures shown in which are small enough to be aspirated away with 1 to 2 mm sized aspiration needles.

As illustrated in there is provided a shot pattern to create 0.5 mm sized cubes out of the lens material. Thus there is provided an outer lens surface which is formed by the lens capsule and thus an outer shape of the lens. There is further provided a shot pattern that creates grid like cuts the end of which cuts essentially follows the shape of the lens. There may be further provided one shell cut which is integral with the grid like cuts. The sequence of laser shots in the pattern in may be executed from posterior to anterior as in most of the patterns disclosed herein to obtain more predictable results by reducing the variation caused by shooting through gas bubbles. However it may be desirable to shoot cataracts from the anterior to the posterior for the purpose of choosing the lesser of two undesirable effects. Thus it may be advantageous to shoot through the gas bubbles or let them dissipate rather than shooting through cataractous tissue which much more severely scatters the light and more quickly prevents photodisruption compared to gas bubble interference. Accordingly it is proposed to photodisrupt the most anterior sections of the cataract first then move posteriorally shooting through gas bubble remnants of cataractous tissue to the next layer of cataract tissue below. In addition to shooting the laser in anterior z planes then moving posterior it is further provided to essentially drill down anterior to posterior which we call the z axis throughout this document and then move in x y and drill down again. The shot pattern of may also be applied to a clear lens and that lens material is subsequently removed. It is desirable when dealing with a clear lens that shooting from posterior to anterior is utilized.

The creation of capsulotomy for the surgeon to access the lens to remove the lens material is illustrated in A D. In these figures there is provided an outer surface which surface is formed by the lens capsule and thus an outer shape of the lens. There is further provided a ring shaped band cut and shot pattern. This shot pattern is provided by placing the laser beam in a series of tightly placed shots around the ring at the deepest depth most posterior ring and then continuing that sequence as the depth of the ring is decreased. Thus in general the shot will be distributed entirely around the ring at a particular depth before moving to a shallower depth. Thus the figure shows the cross section view of cylindrical incision and accordingly provides for two sides of the ring. The ring shaped capsulotomy cuts of 100 m deep approximately centered on the apex as determined by the above referenced method of the anterior lens capsule surface and precisely 5 mm in diameter. The diameter of the capsulotomy can be varied between about 0.1 mm to about 9 mm diameter.

Since the lens capsule is approximately 5 to 15 m thick it is desirable for the depth of the cut to be typically between 5 and several hundred um although there is not much penalty for cutting several millimeters. With greater precision regarding the location and shape of the lens and lens apex the thickness of the band and in particular the amount of the band that is above the lens capsule and in the aqueous can be reduced. The shape of the capsulotomy can be elliptical with the x axis different then the y axis or other shapes. Thus the shape of the capsulotomy can be any shape that provides a benefit for a particular IOL for example the shape of the capsulotomy can be circular elliptical square rectangular or a non geometric shape. The shape will be based at least in part upon and be determined at least in part by the aspects of IOLs and in particular accommodating IOLs and IOLs that reduce and or eliminate the need for spectacles. A particular IOL such as FDA approved IOLs discussed herein may benefit from and or may require a particular capsulotomy shape and opening smoothness.

A jigsaw delivery sequence or pattern for performing a precision capsulotomy is further provided herein. As illustrated in A C there is provided an outer surface which surface is formed by the lens capsule and thus an outer shape of the lens. is a cross section of the lens with an X axis and a Z axis . is a top view of the lens down the Z axis and has X axis and Y axis . There is further provided a jigsaw cut and shot pattern in the shape of a circle on the plane of the X axis and the Y axis when viewed down the Z axis . The laser shot pattern is delivered in a series of tightly spaced vertical sweeps over the same X Y point of the pattern. Thus the Z position will change many times relative to the change in X Y position as the shots are delivered. This rapidly changing Z position relative to the X Y position is referred to as the vertical sweep of pattern and the range of this sweep is shown by arrow . A particular IOL such as FDA approved IOLs discussed herein may benefit from and or may require a particular capsulotomy shape and opening smoothness.

As illustrated in A C there is provided an outer surface which surface is formed by the lens capsule and thus an outer shape of the lens. is a cross section of the lens with an X axis and a Z axis . is a top view of the lens down the Z axis and has X axis and Y axis . There is further provided a jigsaw cut and shot pattern in the shape of an ellipse on the plane of the X axis and the Y axis when viewed down the Z axis . The laser shot pattern is delivered in a series of tightly spaced vertical sweeps over the same X Y point of the pattern. Thus the Z position will change many times relative to the change in X Y position as the shots are delivered. This rapidly changing Z position relative to the X Y position is referred to as the vertical sweep of pattern and the range of this sweep is shown by arrow . A particular IOL such as FDA approved IOLs discussed herein may benefit from and or may require a particular capsulotomy shape and opening smoothness.

The jigsaw type cuts set forth herein can further be accomplished by a fast small amplitude z scan from the posterior position to an to anterior position that is a scan having a z direction amplitude that is slightly larger than the thickness of the capsule and a high Pulse Rate Frequency PRF so that all the pulses of a single z direction sweep down the z axis overlap in two dimensions when viewing the pattern along the anterior to posterior axis. A single z direction sweep is defined as a scan from the lowest most posterior point to the highest most anterior point along the jigsaw shot pattern or alternatively from the highest to the lowest point. Thus to use a sine curve as a analogy a single z direction sweep would be that portion of the curve from peak to trough or from trough to peak and a full wave z direction sweeps would be that continuous portion of the curve from peak to peak or from trough to trough. For purposes of illustration the wavelength of the jigsaw cut is defined as the distance in the horizontal direction from one peak to the next.

Thus for example such overlap can be obtained by a shot pattern with a z direction amplitude of about 10 20 m. More specifically one example of such a shot pattern would have a z direction amplitude of 7.5 m a wavelength of 2.5 m with three equally spaced pulses for each single z direction sweep of the jigsaw pattern. For a PRF of 100 kHz there are 10 sec between shots such a shot pattern would require 6000 full wave z direction sweeps to cut a single vertical ring of a capsulotomy of diameter 5 mm. The 36 000 total pulses for this full circular mini jigsaw pattern would require 0.36 second to complete.

A complete capsulotomy would comprise a stacked series of circular mini jigsaw patterns of the same diameter with each mini jigsaw pattern having a vertical extent of 15 m and with overlapping in the z direction with the adjacent mini jigsaw patterns to ensure a complete cut at each z level. The mini jigsaw patterns would be cut starting with the most posterior mini jigsaw pattern when that pattern was cut the next most anterior pattern would be added until the height of the stacked mini jigsaw patterns was sufficient to cut from below posterior to the anterior lens capsule position through the capsule and into the anterior chamber. The composite form of the stacked patterns is in the shape of an annulus. The height of the annulus needed to ensure a z extent large enough to guarantee that the annulus cuts through the anterior lens capsule depends on the thickness of the capsule but also the accuracy and precision of the positioning of laser pulses. Such accuracy and precision can be characterized by a standard deviation which includes variations from all sources in the actual versus desired z position of laser shots.

Using this pattern and rate the first pattern mini jigsaw pattern could be delivered at the most posterior position for 3 to 5 sigma accuracy. Thus for a nominal 50 m z standard deviation sigma the first pattern would start at about 150 to 250 m below the nominal estimated position of the capsule and then after each pattern is completed the next pattern would be moved anteriorly by an amount that is smaller than the extent thus for example the pattern can move anteriorly by 10 m e.g. 33 or 5 m out of the 15 m nominal extent for each subsequent pattern after the first until the capsulotomy is completed. Thus for example a capsulotomy using this mini jigsaw technique can be completed in about 11 seconds nominal 3 sigma treatment 150 m total pattern 30 mini jigsaw cuts 29 anterior 10 m moves 0.36 sec mini jigsaw pattern.

A variation of and optimization of the jigsaw type patterns and cuts is provided. Thus the treatment laser is used as position determining laser i.e. as laser radar LADAR as well as for performing the capsulotomy.

An illustrative system utilizing by way of example specific optics for delivering the laser beam and a means for determining the position of the lens and in particular the anterior and posterior capsule of the lens is shown in . Thus the example of provides a laser laser optics which optics includes a beam expander telescope a polarizing beam splitter a z focus module or mechanism a polarizer wave plate an x y scanner and imaging or focusing optics . Thus as set forth in the laser beam path in part passes from beam expander telescope to polarizing beam splitter to z focus module or mechanism to polarizer wave plate to x y scanner and then to imaging or focusing optics . There is further provided range detector components including an optical detector which receives return laser beam along path and produces analog input signal analog electronics which receives analog input signal and produces analog output signal and digital electronics and control which receives analog output signal and produces control signal which control signal is received by z focus module or mechanism . There is also provided a laser beam path for the range detector. An attenuator is provided and can be moved between two positions in which the laser is attenuated and in which the laser is not attenuated. A laser patient interface is provided.

This approach utilizes an attenuated version of the treatment laser to be used as a transmitter illuminator. There is provided an optical receiver which is polarization duplexed together into a single transceiver path which utilizes the same optical path to the eye as the treatment laser. In this way the transceiver path looks through the Z focus mechanism and the imaging optic that provide a small spot size for photodisruption but will not photodisrupt because of the attenuator. The transceiver beam is therefore scanable throughout the full lens volume.

With the attenuator in place an AC periodic dither is applied to Z amplitude vs time. The focus point keeping the x and y coordinates the same is then moved from above the anterior surface of the lens through the lens to the posterior surface and then slightly beyond. In this way for any x y coordinate there will be a noticeable change in the amplitude of the laser beam that is returned which change will be detected by the optical detector . Thus there will be provided an analog input signal an analog output signal and a control signal . This change will correspond to the lens outer surfaces. An example of this change is provided in in which represents the returned signal when the focus is above the anterior surface of the lens represents the signal as the focus moves through the anterior lens capsule represents the signal as the focus is in the lens represents the signal as the focus moves through the posterior lens capsule and represents the signal as the focus is beyond posterior to the lens. Further as described in greater detail in the following paragraphs a servo can be utilized to lock the z direction focus for any x y coordinate of the lens at predetermined offset to prevent the treatment laser from disrupting material at or near the lens capsule.

The dither could be a ramp or saw tooth or a simple sine wave of Z amplitude vs time dither approximately 10 s to 100 s of m in amplitude to the Z focus assembly. To initially find the position of the anterior capsule an offset is applied to the Z focus module with the focus starting just posterior to the cornea and then proceeding posteriorly to the anterior capsule in Z typically mm s until the transceiver receives an increasingly strong periodic signal return from the anterior capsule. The change in index between the aqueous humor and the lens capsule as well as scattering from the capsule or fibrous tissue compared to the uniform aqueous provides the optical return signal which is sensed by the optical receiver. The periodic signal detected in the receiver will increase as the dithered and focused transceiver is Z offset downward and approaches the edge of the capsule. As the Z focus is pushed into the fibrous mass the dithered signal will reach a maximum and then begin to decrease. The direction of the Z focus offset and leading edge of the signal S Curve are used to form a discriminator function which can provide a directionally dependent error signal to drive the Z Focus offset to maximize the dithered signal return at the edge of the capsule through closed loop servo techniques. Once the Z Offset loop which is essentially a range servo is closed then the transceiver focus will track in Z offset any location on the anterior capsule. After the Z offset loop is closed and tracking X and Y scanning can now be accomplished and the recording of the tracked Z offset position for every x y location will essentially create a 3D map of the anterior surface. An X Y scan pattern slow enough to not break lock on the Z Offset tracker could scan in a spiral or other pattern from the anterior pole outward to approximately just less than the pupil diameter to create a 3 D map of reasonably uniform sampling over the pupil limited lens diameter. Once this anterior data is captured the X Y could return to 0 0 and then the loop opened and the Z offset commanded further down toward the posterior pole and again a signal increase will occur at the interface between the posterior capsule and the vitreous humor albeit a sign change may occur. Likewise the Z offset loop can now lock onto and track the posterior capsule and a similar x y scan be used to map out the posterior lens shape.

The significant advantages of this technique is that the unknown gradient refractive index of the lens and as well as the refractive index of the cornea do not contribute uncertainly to this measurement as we are not recording the absolute laboratory fixed Cartesian X Y Z position and shape of the lens surfaces but instead the Z offset command necessary at each X Y position to position the beam at the anterior capsule. Since the treatment beam is at the same wavelength as the attenuated probe beam used to find the position of the lens capsule the mapping of z offset to the beam focus required to focus the attenuated beam at the lens capsule as a function of x y position also provides the z offset necessary for the treatment beam to cut at the lens capsule as a function of the x y position independent of the refractive index of the cornea and lens and any inhomogeneities therein. This means the shape of the lens is being defined in the exact same coordinate system as used by the treatment laser with no systematic error the attenuated laser is being used as the transmitter with the same Z focus assembly and the same imaging optics as the treatment beam.

In a more preferred configuration an EO modulator is used as an alternative to the attenuator. Thus as illustrated by way of example in system that is has targeting plan that would correspond to or be positioned on or within the natural crystalline lens of the patent. There is a laser beam path from the laser not shown to the target plane . There is provided a second laser beam path in which reflected laser light is transmitted back from the eye. This return path is then divided by beam splitter means and into three laser beam return paths and . The first return beam path provides a reference signal or channel. This beam path is travels through the illustrated components and the resultant signal is then sent to a master computer for processing.

The second return beam path provides a signal or channel for a near spatial filter assembly . This beam path travels through the illustrated components and the resultant signal is then sent to a master computer for processing.

The third return beam path provides a signal or channel for a far spatial filter assembly . The beam path travels through the illustrated components and the resultant signal is then sent to a master computer for processing.

In this way the use of the far and near spatial filters and provides for a gating effect that eliminates a large amount of the stray backscatter light and only lets the scattered or reflected light from the focus of the scanned transceiver beam through for processing. This provides a heightened sensitivity in the z direction and results in enhanced ability to determine the position of the lens capsule.

As shown in there is provided an illustration of a laser pattern having a changing z focus. For purposes of illustration in this figure movement is shown in only the x and z directions for simplification it being readily understood that movement in both the x and y direction would take place would be preferable and would be needed to perform a capsulotomy and in particular any of the capsulotomies provided herein. Thus there is shown a z axis which coincides with the anterior posterior A P axis of the lens a laser shot pattern specific sets of shots and that achieve Laser Induced Optical Breakdown LIOB in the area of the anterior surface of the lens which the remaining shots in pattern are below LIOB threshold. The set of laser shots are within 10 15 m of the anterior surface of the capsule. Preferably the majority of the shots exceeding LIOB in the pattern should be in this area of the pattern i.e. the majority of the shots that exceed LIOB should be in the range of from 5 to 15 m of the anterior surface of the capsule. More preferably the majority of the shots exceeding LIOB should be in range of from about 0 to about 15 m above the surface of the capsule and even more preferably the range should be from about 0 to about 10 m. It is theorized and applications provide this theory to further the teaching of the art but are in no way bound by this theory that the reaction of the laser shot in the area slightly above the capsule creates in function a touch like effect where by way of analogy the cutting flame of the touch would extend away from the shot location in a posterior direction along the general path of the laser beam delivering the shot.

The treatment laser is used as a source for laser radar that measures and tracks the position of the anterior lens capsule using a range servo system as described above by way of example. Initially laser energy power below LIOB threshold is utilized to determine the position of the anterior capsule of the lens. This is achieved by scanning the laser in an x y pattern such as an ellipse a circle or any other predetermined shape for a capsulotomy and varying the z focus. In this way the position of the anterior surface of the lens along the location for the capsulotomy can be determined. As the location is determined this scanning can be continued with the energy power of the laser being increased to LIOB for those shots that are in very close proximity to the anterior surface of the lens. In this manner tracking location determination and cutting can be simultaneously accomplished. This provides the added benefit of reduced bubble formation because essentially only the shots needed to accomplish the capsulotomy are above LIOB threshold and thus bubble formation is reduced and minimized.

Thus it is preferred to use a z dithered ranger loop to locate the lens surface. In such a loop the laser beam is oscillated in the z direction along the lens anterior posterior axis to allow a tracker loop to detect the return signal from the anterior capsule by the use of an optical receiver path that contains a small F spatial filter so that the return signal is sensitive to the z position of the system and therefore a hill climbing servo a well known servo control algorithm can be used to track the anterior surface of the capsule. When the z dithered ranger loop is closed and stable during a predetermined scan the laser energy is raised to above LIOB threshold and the cutting action will take place. Thus there is provided a jigsaw type cut of the types disclosed herein with reduced bubble formation.

The combination of the patterns and types of cuts provided herein can be interchanged and other shapes of patterns and positions relative to the X Y center of the lens may be employed. Moreover because there is a greater likelihood for a missed laser shot with the band cut i.e. the ring delivery sequence or pattern such as shown in than the jigsaw sequence the use of the technique to determine the location apex and shape of the lens is important but not as critical as when the ring sequence is being employed.

From the foregoing description one skilled in the art can readily ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof can make various changes and or modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions. Accordingly the present invention may be embodied in other forms than those specifically disclosed herein without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive and the scope of the invention is commensurate with the appended claims rather than the foregoing description.

