---

title: Enriching online videos by content detection, searching, and information aggregation
abstract: Many internet users consume content through online videos. For example, users may view movies, television shows, music videos, and/or homemade videos. It may be advantageous to provide additional information to users consuming the online videos. Unfortunately, many current techniques may be unable to provide additional information relevant to the online videos from outside sources. Accordingly, one or more systems and/or techniques for determining a set of additional information relevant to an online video are disclosed herein. In particular, visual, textual, audio, and/or other features may be extracted from an online video (e.g., original content of the online video and/or embedded advertisements). Using the extracted features, additional information (e.g., images, advertisements, etc.) may be determined based upon matching the extracted features with content of a database. The additional information may be presented to a user consuming the online video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443147&OS=09443147&RS=09443147
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09443147
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100426
---
When browsing the internet users interact with a variety of content through online videos. For example users may view full length movies advertisements home videos captured by cell phones television shows and other content. Not only may users view online videos through a host website but may also upload and share online videos with other users. Because online videos play such as integral role in a user internet experience additional information such as advertisements and related services e.g. news weather nearby traffic etc. may be incorporated with the online video to enhance the user s experience. Unfortunately current techniques may provide additional information that is irrelevant to the original or embedded content of the online video. Thus a user may often ignore irrelevant additional information because it may not appeal to the interest of the user.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for determining a set of additional information relevant to an online video are disclosed herein. It may be appreciated that a set of additional information may comprise any digital content or combination thereof such as images text audio video etc. In one example a set of additional information may be a video advertisement. In another example a set of additional information may be a set of images coupled with a URL linking to a webpage.

In one embodiment an online video may be received. It may be appreciated that the online video may comprise the original content and or embedded content such as overlaid advertisements. A set of features from the online video may be extracted. The set of features may comprise textual features e.g. embedded text visual features e.g. textures SIFT descriptors etc. audio features and or other descriptive data of the online video. A set of additional information may be determined based upon the set of features. For example a multimodal relevance matching algorithm may be executed against a database e.g. an advertisement database using the set of features to determine the set of additional information. In one example the set of additional information may be presented to a user consuming the online video. In another example the set of additional information may be saved for later utilization.

In another embodiment a parsing component may be configured to parse an online video into one or more segments a segment comprising a sequence of frames of the online video. For respective segments the parsing component may extract one or more keyframes representative of a sequence of frames of a segment. Because an entire segment may comprise unnecessary amounts of information one or more keyframes are extracted to represent a segment. A feature extraction component may be configured to extract a set of feature from the one or more keyframes of respective segments. The set of features may comprise textual visual audio and or other features relating to the online video. An information extraction component may be configured to execute a multimodal relevance matching algorithm against a database using the set of features to determine the set of additional information. A presentation component may be configured to present the set of additional information. In one example the set of additional information may be presented within a browser hosting the online video. In another example the set of additional information may be presented overlaid the online video. In another example the set of additional information may be presented within a skin of a media player hosting the online video. A variety of different presentation modes are contemplated as falling within the scope of the claimed subject matter.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Today a substantial portion of internet content is in the form of online videos. For example television programs may be streamed as online videos for users to consume. It may be advantageous to provide additional relevant information along with the online videos. For example if a user is watching an online video comprising a promotional car video then it may be useful to determine that the content of the online video relates to a car. Using the detected car feature additional information e.g. URL to car websites relating to cars may be provided to the user to enhance their experience.

Unfortunately current techniques may be unable to detect features of the online video and or features of embedded content within the online video. Furthermore current techniques may not use detected features of embedded content to search outside sources for additional information relevant to the embedded content. That is current techniques may not search outside databases such as an advertisement database for additional information generated by sources other than the content producer of the online video and or embedded content within the online video.

Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for determining a set of additional information relevant to an online video are provided herein. In particular features of an online video may be extracted from original content and or embedded content e.g. advertisements of the online video. The features may be used as search criteria against a database such as an advertisement database to determine additional information relevant to the online video. It may be appreciated that the user may have an interest in the content of the online video because the user may choose to spend their browsing time watching the online video. In this way a user s experience may be enhanced by providing the user with additional information relevant to the online video and or the user s interest.

One embodiment of determining a set of additional information relevant to an online video is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method begins. At an online video may be received. The online video may comprise original content and or additional embedded content such as overlaid advertisements. It may be appreciated that receiving the online video may be interoperated as gaining access to the content of the online video e.g. accessing a real time data stream of the online video while a user consumes the online video using a web browser or media player accessing a stored copy of the online video requesting the online video from a source hosting the online video accessing the online video through a browser displaying the online video etc. .

At a set of features may be extracted from the online video. The set of features may comprise at least one of a textual feature a visual feature and or an audio feature. In one example a textual feature e.g. superimposed text may be extracted using one or more textual feature extraction techniques such as an OCR text recognition technique. In another example a visual feature e.g. a color histogram textures SIFT descriptors may be extracted by one or more visual feature extraction techniques such as a scale invariant feature transformation. It may be appreciated that in one example more than one feature may be extracted as the set of features e.g. two textual features as a set of features one textual feature and two audio features as a set of features one hundred visual textual and thirty textual features etc. .

At a set of additional information may be determined based upon the set of features. In one example a multimodal relevance matching algorithm may be executed against a database using the set of features. In particular the multimodal relevance matching algorithm may match features within the set of features with features of additional information such as advertisements images videos etc. within the database. For example the set of features may comprise a visual feature of a car and a textual feature of the word tires . The multimodal relevance matching algorithm may attempt to match the visual car feature and or the textual tire feature with images videos web page URLs and or other content relating to cars and or tires. The set of additional information relevant to the online video may be determined based upon the matched content. The set of additional information may be presented on a display. For example the set of additional information may be presented as a video overlaid on or embedded within the online video. At the method ends.

One embodiment of determining a set of additional information relevant to an online video is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method begins. At an online video may be received. At the online video may be parsed into one or more segments a segment comprising a sequence of frames. The online video may be segmented to parse down the online video into manageable segments from which features may be identified and extracted. To aid in segmentation boundaries may be determined based upon large visual differences between two sequential frames. Furthermore segments may be designated as promotional content e.g. embedded promotional content or program content e.g. original content of the online video for example.

To further narrow the amount of information utilized from the online video one or more keyframes may be extracted for respective segments at . A keyframe may be a frame within a segment that is representative of a sequence of frames of the segment. For example a middle frame or a frame having a video quality above a predetermined threshold may be selected as the keyframe. Selecting keyframes reduces the amount of unnecessary and or redundant data utilized from the online video.

At a set of features may be extracted from one or more keyframes of respective segments. In one example a set of features may comprise one or more textual features and or one or more visual features. At a text based search algorithm may be performed upon a database using the one or more textual features to determine a first list of candidate additional information. For example textual features may be used as keywords to search the database for content comprising matching keywords. At a visual based search algorithm may be performed upon the database using one or more visual features to determine a second list of candidate additional information. For example the visual features may be matched against content within the database comprising matching visual features.

At a linear combination may be performed on the first list and second list to generate a candidate set of additional information. For example the candidate set of additional information may comprise images URLs videos advertisements and or other content matching features of the online video. It may be appreciated that the candidate set of additional information or portion thereof may be used as a set of additional information. In one example the candidate set of additional information may be used as the set of additional information. In another example a predetermined number of candidates may be selected from within the candidate set of additional information to generate the set of additional information. A predetermined number of candidate content may be selected because the candidate set of additional information may comprise an enormous amount of content that may be used as additional information. That is the candidate set of additional information may comprise a combination of advertisement videos spanning a time frame longer than the online video. In one example one or more candidates having high relevancy to the online video may be selected. The set of additional information may be aggregated into a video which may be presented to a user engaged with the online video. At the method ends.

The parsing component may be configured to parse the online video into one or more segments a segment comprising a sequence of frames of the online video . The parsing component may be configured to extract keyframes from the one or more segments. In particular the parsing component may extract one or more keyframes representative of a sequence of frames of a segment.

The feature extraction component may be configured to extract a set of features from the keyframes . The set of features may comprise at least one of a textual feature a visual feature and or an audio feature. In one example the feature extraction component may comprise a text recognition component a visual recognition component and or an audio recognition component. The text recognition component may be configured to extract one or more textual features using an OCR text recognition technique and or other textual recognition techniques. The visual recognition component may be configured to extract one or more visual features using a scale invariant feature transformation and or other visual recognition techniques. The audio recognition component may be configured to extract one or more audio features using one or more audio recognition techniques. A variety of different visual textual and audio recognitions techniques are contemplated as falling within the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The information extraction component may be configured to execute a multimodal relevance matching algorithm against the database using the set of features to determine the set of additional information . In one example the multimodal relevance matching algorithm may be configured to perform a text based search algorithm upon the database using textual features to determine a first list of candidate additional information. The multimodal relevance matching algorithm may be configured to perform a visual based search algorithm upon the database using visual features to determine a second list of candidate additional information. The multimodal relevance matching algorithm may perform a linear combination of the first list and second list to generate the set of additional information . The information extraction component may be configured to aggregate the set of additional information into a video.

In one example the presentation component may be configured to present the set of additional information . In another example the presentation component may be configured to present the video to a user consuming the online video within a web browsing environment .

It may be appreciated that some content within the database e.g. the set of additional information may match one or more of the features within the set of features while other content within the database e.g. irrelevant content may not match features within the set of features . In this way additional information relevant to the online video e.g. content within the database matching features within the set of features may be determined within the database . For example the set of additional information may comprise a car image a car maker website URL an advertisement for vacation a video of a car race and or other content matching the set of features . Irrelevant content may be excluded from the set of additional information because it does not relate to the set of features . For example a textual description about how to install gutters may not match visual features of a car tree sun clouds road etc. and or textual features of a car drive Car Maker website etc.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of and exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

