---

title: Systems and methods for facilitating secure transactions
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to methods for generating proxy account data for a financial account and authorizing payment from an account of a customer based on proxy account data. Example methods may comprise selecting a serial number for a first customer and storing an association between the serial number and an account of the first customer. The methods may further comprise encrypting the serial number and consolidating the encrypted serial number with checkable data. An association between the encrypted serial number and the checkable data may be stored and the consolidated encrypted serial number and checkable data may be encrypted to generate proxy account data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762284&OS=08762284&RS=08762284
owner: Democracyontheweb, LLC
number: 08762284
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101216
---
This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 872 523 filed on Aug. 31 2010 entitled Systems and Methods for Voting which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The structure of most credit and debit transactions today is based on the original form of a standard credit card transaction. Such a transaction typically involved the use of a physical card and a physical signature as a means of protection against misuse. In an era of face to face transactions this structure provided adequate security against improper and or fraudulent purchases. Advancing technology and purchaser demand however have led to new variations of the standard credit card transaction that do not require either the physical presentment of the card or the signature of the purchaser. Although these new techniques provide purchasers and vendors with increased convenience they also reduce security and increase the probability of fraudulent purchases.

Strains on the security of the standard credit card transaction began to appear when it became possible to make credit card purchases over the phone. In a telephone transaction the only information necessary to complete a purchase is the account number i.e. credit or debit card number the account expiration date and sometimes an additional security code i.e. typically 3 or 4 additional digits . As a result any person able to acquire the account number expiration date and security code of a credit or debit account is able to make fraudulent telephone purchases on the account. Internet purchases suffer from the same security flaws as telephone purchases though amplified by the nature of the Internet medium. Like telephone transactions Internet transactions can be completed with only the account number expiration date and security code associated with an account. In an Internet transaction however this information is transmitted over the Internet or other public network creating additional opportunities for the theft of account information. The transmission itself is subject to interception either in transit or at the purchaser s machine i.e. via a Trojan horse spyware or other malware . Further many vendors retain purchasers account information on the vendors own systems. Accordingly a purchaser s account information is at the mercy of security precautions taken by each vendor with which the purchaser does business. Still newer purchasing technology threatens to further undermine the security of credit and debit transactions. Recently there has been a push to use mobile phones and other hand held devices in place of credit cards allowing for purchases over the Internet and in store using WIFI and other mobile networks. The use of mobile networks creates additional opportunities for the misappropriation of account information.

Various attempts have been made to address the security shortcomings of the standard credit card transaction. For example there has been a proliferation of gift cards and prepaid cash equivalents. The fixed balance of these cards limits that amount that can be lost to theft however it also limits the usefulness of the card to legitimate purchasers. Further many gift cards are usable only with a certain vendor or vendors. Also some Internet purchases now utilize high security proxies to perform transactions and transmit payment information to the vendor. These methods however are often complicated and require the involvement of a third party i.e. the high security proxy .

Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for facilitating secure transactions utilizing proxy account data that is sequentially encrypted e.g. by separate computer systems . The proxy account data may be associated with a financial account of a customer and may be used to authorize charges to the customer s account e.g. to fund transactions with third party vendors . For example the proxy account data may be utilized to make on line telephone and or other purchases in a manner similar to the way that the customer would use actual account data. Each instance of proxy account data may be referred to as a proxy account data package.

Proxy account data may be generated by a financial institution or a third party provider utilizing a sequential encryption. For example an inner financial institution computer system inner system may associate a serial number with the customer s account. The serial number may be any suitable number and may be associated with the customer s account in any suitable manner. The inner system may encrypt the serial number and send the encrypted serial number to an outer financial institution computer system outer system . The outer system may append checkable data to the encrypted serial number and then encrypt the combination of the encrypted serial number and the checkable data. In this way the serial number may be double encrypted. The results of the encryption may yield the proxy account data. The proxy account data may then be communicated to the customer in any suitable manner.

According to various embodiments the customer may utilize the proxy account data by providing it to a vendor in person by telephone or electronically in a manner similar to the way that the customer would provide his or her credit card number. The vendor or other party may provide the proxy account data to the financial institution along with a request for payment. The proxy account data and request may be processed by the inner and outer systems. The outer system may decrypt the proxy account data yielding the encrypted serial number and the checkable data. The checkable data may be verified. Provided that the checkable data is verified the outer system may transmit the checkable data to the inner system. The inner system may decrypt the encrypted serial number and verify that the serial number is properly associated with the customer s account. Provided that the serial number is properly associated with the customer s account the financial institution may authorize that the customer s account be charged in a manner consistent with the payment request. In this way the vendor never has access to the customer s account information. Accordingly the customer s account information remains with the financial institution protected by the Internet security systems already in place to protect the financial institution s computer systems.

In various embodiments proxy account data may be associated with transaction limitations that may be honored by the financial institution. For example the serial number and or checkable data of the proxy account data may be associated with any suitable type of transaction limitation including for example a maximum amount available for transactions a maximum per transaction amount a limitation on vendors an expiration time and or any other suitable limitation. In embodiments where the proxy account data is associated with limitations the limitations may be derived at the time that the proxy account data is provided to the financial institution with a request for payment. For example the financial institution may not authorize payment from the customer s account to the vendor unless the details of the transaction are consistent with the transaction limitations associated with the proxy account data.

According to various embodiments the computer system may comprise an outer financial institution system and an inner financial institution system . The inner and outer systems may be separated from one another for example in order to increase the difficulty of hacking into both systems . For example according to various embodiments the systems may be at different physical locations on different networks behind different firewalls etc. In some embodiments however there may not be any distinction between the inner system and outer system e.g. the functionality of both may be performed by the system or a single component thereof .

The inner system may be in communication with one or more data stores including for example a serial number data store and a serial number association data store . Although the data stores and are illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that the data described as being stored at each may be stored in more or fewer physical or logical devices than are shown. Serial number data store may comprise serial numbers that may be associated with customer account data. Serial number associations data store may comprise associations between serial numbers and specific customer account data. The outer system may similarly be in electronic communication with a checkable data association data store . The data store may comprise associations between encrypted serial numbers and checkable data for example as described herein below.

At the system e.g. the inner system may select a serial number to be used to generate the proxy account data. The serial number may be a block of digital data of any suitable size that is capable of being associated with the customer s account data e.g. account number expiration date security code etc. . In various embodiments a list of suitable serial numbers may be stored by the inner system for example at the serial number store . In some embodiments the serial number may be all or a portion of account data specifically identifying the customer s account. It will be appreciated however that utilizing account data for the serial number will cause the account data to be present in the ultimately generated proxy account data albeit in encrypted form. In some embodiments the inner system may keep track of serial numbers that have already been used to ensure that no serial number is in use for more than one account and or more than one customer at the same time. It will be appreciated however that in some embodiments serial numbers may be re used after all account proxy data representing previous uses of the serial number have expired.

At the inner system may associate the selected serial number with data describing the customer s account. The data describing the customer s account may include for example an account number or any other identifying data. The association between the serial number and the customer s account may be stored at any suitable secure location including for example at the serial number associations data store . After making the association at the inner system may encrypt the serial number at . Upon encryption of the serial number the inner system may transmit the encrypted serial number to the outer system according to any suitably secure transmission technique using any suitable local or wide area wired wireless or mixed network.

It will be appreciated that the serial number may be encrypted by the inner system according to any suitable encryption hardware or software method. For example the inner system may encrypt the serial number according to a symmetric single key encryption method such as for example forms of the Advanced Encryption Standard AES Data Encryption Standard DES RC2 RC4 etc. Any suitable block size may be used. Also according to various embodiments an asymmetric or public key infrastructure PKI encryption method may be used. For example the inner system may have a public key used to encrypt the serial number and a private key that may be used to decrypt the data packet. The public key may be generally available while the private key may not be shared with any other systems. In some embodiments symmetric and asymmetric encryption methods may be used together. For example an asymmetric method may be used to transmit a symmetric key that may then be used for further communications.

At the outer system may join the encrypted serial number with checkable data. The checkable data may be any suitable data that can be later used by the outer system to verify the encrypted serial number. In some embodiments the checkable data may comprise data describing the customer and or the customer s account. In addition or instead the checkable data may comprise a time stamp and or machine stamp indicating the outer system . In this way the outer system may be able to subsequently verify that it created the resulting proxy account data. In some embodiments the checkable data may comprise any type of data that may be associated with the encrypted serial number. For example the outer system may store an association between the encrypted serial number and the checkable data at data store .

The outer system may encrypt the combination of the encrypted serial number and the checkable data at . The result of this encryption may be or may be transformed into the proxy account data. The proxy account data may subsequently be communicated to the customer in any suitable manner. For example the proxy account data may be printed to a paper or card which may be subsequently mailed to the customer e.g. with an account statement . The proxy account data may be represented on the paper or card in any suitable form. For example the proxy account data may be represented in alphanumeric form in symbolic for or as a bar code or other graphical code. In various embodiments the proxy account data may be provided to the customer electronically. For example the system may send an e mail to the customer including the proxy account data. The e mail may be sent to a public e mail account of the customer and or to a secure e mail account associated with the customer s account with the financial institution. In various embodiments the e mail may comprise an electronic representation of the proxy account data that may be utilized by a personal computer device such as a smart phone to make purchases as described herein. Also in various embodiments the proxy account data may be provided to the customer via a user interface provided by the system . For example the proxy account data may be represented in a screen provided to the customer . The customer may then copy the proxy account data e.g. electronically or manually for later use.

According to various embodiments instances of proxy account data e.g. proxy account data packages may be associated with use restrictions that limit the circumstances under which the proxy account data may be used in transactions with vendors. For example some use restrictions may specify times or dates when the proxy account data may or may not be used. Also for example some use restrictions may specify a maximum number of times that proxy account data may be used. In addition some use restrictions may specify a number of times that the proxy account data may be used prior to an expiration. Other use restrictions my be related to the types of vendors that the proxy account data may be used to pay. For example a proxy account data package may be limited such that it is only valid with certain vendors or categories of vendors. Similarly proxy account data may be limited so that it is specifically invalid with certain vendors or categories of vendors. In some embodiments use restrictions may be utilized to provide a greater level of security and or assurance with a customer s account is to be used by someone other than the customer. For example if the customer is a parent the customer may provide his or her child with a proxy account data package that is specifically limited to the types of purchases that the customer would like the child to make.

At the inner system may select a serial number for example as described hereinabove with respect to . At the inner system may associate the serial number and the use restriction or restrictions with the customer s account. In this way when the proxy account data is used to make a purchase the system may verify the validity of the proxy account data as well as whether the requested transaction complies with the use restrictions for example as described herein below. Although shows the use restrictions being associated with the serial number by the inner system it will be appreciated that alternatively the encrypted serial number and or checkable data may be associated with the use restrictions for example by the outer system .

At the inner system may encrypt the serial number for example similar to the way described above with respect to . The resulting encrypted serial number may be transmitted to the outer system which may join the encrypted serial number with checkable data at for example as described above with respect to . At the outer system may encrypt the combination of the checkable data with the encrypted serial number resulting in the proxy account data.

At the outer system may decrypt the proxy account data. For example the outer system may have access to the encryption key used to encrypt the proxy account data and or necessary to decrypt it as described above. The result of decrypting the proxy account data may be checkable data and an encrypted serial number. At the outer system may verify the checkable data. For example the outer system may verify an association between the checkable data and the encrypted serial number e.g. stored at database . If the checkable data is verified the outer system may transmit the encrypted serial number and the transaction data to the inner system e.g. via a secure connection . The inner system may decrypt the encrypted serial number at . At the inner system may determine whether the serial number is associated with a valid account e.g. at data store . At the inner system may determine whether the transaction information is consistent with the serial number or consistent with any use restrictions associated with the serial number e.g. at data store .

Provided that the serial number is associated with a valid account and that the transaction data is consistent with any use restrictions associated with the serial number the inner system may authorize payment to the vendor from the customer s account. Payment may be effectuated according to any suitable method. For example payment from the customer s account to the vendor may be made in a manner similar to that of current credit and or debit transactions. It will be appreciated that the process flow in some embodiments may be executed by the system at or near real time e.g. with a speed similar to that of current credit card authorization determinations . In this way the vendor may wait to receive at least authorization from the system prior to completing the transaction with the customer .

As described above the customer may provide proxy account data to the vendor or directly to the system in any suitable way. For example when the vendor is an Internet or web based vendor the customer may provide the proxy account data by entering it into a window of the vendor s site. For example the vendor s site may comprise a drop down menu allowing the customer to select a payment method. When the customer selects a method corresponding to the proxy account data the vendor s site may provide a field for receiving the proxy account data. Also in some embodiments the vendor s site may comprise an interface to the system allowing the customer to provide the proxy account data directly to the system through the vendor s site. It will be appreciated that proxy account data may also be used for in person purchases. For example the customer may provide a card comprising the proxy account data in alphanumeric and or symbolic form to the vendor . The vendor may transmit the proxy account data to the system by manually or automatically entering it into a vendor computer system not shown . For example the vendor may have a bar code reader to read a bar code from the card provided by the customer. In still other embodiments the customer may verbally indicate the proxy account data to the vendor .

As illustrated in the mobile device may receive the proxy account data from the system . For example the mobile device may communicate directly with the system via a network not shown such as the Internet. Also for example the proxy account data may be stored on a storage medium which may be read by the mobile device . In various embodiments the mobile device may be capable of wireless communications. The vendor may comprise a wireless access device for receiving wireless transmissions from the mobile device . When the purchaser chooses to engage in a transaction with the vendor the purchaser may place the mobile device in communication with the vendor . For example the purchaser may move the mobile device within range of the wireless access device . Also in some embodiments the purchaser may prompt the mobile device to send the proxy account data to the vendor .

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile device may transmit the proxy account data to the vendor utilizing a bar code or any other suitable visual and or graphical code. For example the mobile device may be configured to represent the proxy account data on a screen in the form of a bar code or other visual and or graphical code. The purchaser may communicate the proxy account data to the vendor by placing the mobile device and specifically its screen within range of a bar code reader in communication with the vendor . In some embodiments the purchaser may capture or extract an image of the bar code or other code and transmit the image to the vendor in lieu of using the bar code reader . It will be appreciated that although show the mobile device sending proxy account data and transaction data to the vendor in some embodiments the mobile device may send only the proxy account data. Transaction data e.g. which items or services the purchaser intends to buy may be conveyed verbally or by another method. Also although show the mobile device communicating the proxy account data to the vendor in some embodiments the mobile device may communicate the proxy account data directly to the system .

According to various embodiments steps may be taken to prevent hacking of the financial institution system . For example the financial institution may have security features in place to prevent unauthorized access to the system and to facilitate secure communications with customers. Any suitable technology may be used including for example HTTPS secure socket layer SSL etc. An additional security feature of the system may arise from the dual nature of the inner and outer systems. For example in order to nefariously generate proxy account data a hacker would be required to separately hack into both systems which may pose a considerable challenge. Should it be determined that any decryption key of either of the systems has been stolen or compromised the systems may generate new decryption keys and replace any proxy account data created during the time that the decryption key or keys was compromised.

Different computer systems parties and devices are described herein as communicating with one another. It will be appreciated that this communication may take place according to any suitable method. For example according to various embodiments some or all of the computer systems or parties described herein may be in communication with one another via a network or networks. The network or networks may operate according to any suitable wired or wireless communication protocol and may utilize any suitable hardware or software. In some embodiments the network or networks may include a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a local area network LAN etc.

When communications between the systems parties and devices take place over the Internet or other public network it will be appreciated that these communications may be encrypted. For example one or more of the systems may utilize an asymmetric or public key infrastructure PKI method. According to a PKI system each system may have a public key that may be used for encrypting messages and a private key that may be used for decryption. The public key may be provided to any systems having need to send data to the first system. The data may be encrypted with the public key such that it may only be decrypted with the private key which may be kept secret by the receiving system. In this way all communications between the various systems may be decrypted only by their intended recipients.

According to various embodiments the systems may each be implemented on exclusive hardware. For example the system may not share any hardware with the system . This may increase security as it may make it more difficult for a potential hacker to access the sensitive operations of both system as would be necessary to tamper with the creation or verification of proxy account data. In other embodiments though the systems may share common hardware. For example the systems may be implemented on a single computer device or a common set of computer devices. Hardware or software tools may be utilized to provide segregation between the systems in order to increase the difficulty of hacking both systems to tamper with the creation or verification of proxy account data. For example a firewall may be implemented to limit the types and security of electronic communications between the system . In some embodiments the distinction between the inner system and outer system may not be present and the system may generally perform all of the actions described herein and attributed to either the system or the system . Although this configuration may be less secure it may be advantageous in some circumstances to avoid the expense and complexity of implementing multiple systems . Also the systems and are referred to herein as the inner system and the outer system . Despite this it will be appreciated that these systems may be placed in any suitable configuration relative to one another the system the vendor and or the purchaser .

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures methods or processing structures described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused descriptions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients e.g. the vendor or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes. The processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated materials does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

A computer computer device computer system system host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers or computer systems described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

