---

title: Method and system for expediting the rescue of victims experiencing sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) when used in conjunction with an automated external defibrillator (AED)
abstract: A method and system for expediting the rescue of victims experiencing sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) when used in conjunction with an automated external defibrillator (AED). The system involves an apparatus that calls for help (i.e. 911), detects SCA and cardiac arrhythmias, locates an AED, guides the rescuer through CPR and connection of the AED. A second apparatus is in the enclosure that contains the AED, sends location information to the other apparatus, triggers audible and visual indicators, and provides information on the victim's location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09498152&OS=09498152&RS=09498152
owner: Scion Medical Limited
number: 09498152
owner_city: Mong Kok
owner_country: HK
publication_date: 20101025
---
This patent application claims benefit of pending prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 279 634 filed Oct. 23 2009 by Kyle R. Bowers for METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR EXPEDITING THE RESCUE OF VICTIMS EXPERIENCING SUDDEN CARDIAC ARREST SCA WHEN USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH AN AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR AED which patent application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to a method and system for expediting the rescue of victims experiencing sudden cardiac arrest SCA when used in conjunction with an automated external defibrillator AED . The system involves an apparatus that calls for help i.e. 911 detects SCA and cardiac arrhythmias locates an AED guides the rescuer through CPR and connection of the AED. A second apparatus is in the enclosure that contains the AED sends location information to the other apparatus triggers audible and visual indicators and provides information on the victim s location.

Approximately 350 000 deaths occur each year in the United States alone due to Sudden Cardiac Arrest SCA . Worldwide deaths due to Sudden Cardiac Arrest SCA are believed to be at least twice that of the United States. Many of these deaths can be prevented if effective defibrillation is administered within 3 5 minutes of the onset of SCA.

Sudden Cardiac Arrest SCA is the onset of an abnormal heart rhythm lack of pulse and absence of breath leading to a loss of consciousness. If a pulse is not restored within a few minutes death occurs. Most often SCA is due to Ventricular Fibrillation VF which is a chaotic heart rhythm that causes an uncoordinated quivering of the heart muscle. The lack of coordinated heart muscle contractions results in a lack of blood flow to the brain and other organs. Unless this chaotic heart rhythm is quickly terminated thereby allowing the heart to restore its own normal rhythm death ensues.

Rapid detection CPR and defibrillation are the only known means to restore a normal heart rhythm and prevent death after SCA due to Ventricular Fibrillation VF . For each minute that passes after the onset of SCA mortality typically increases by 10 . At 7 10 minutes the survival rate is generally below 10 . However if a patient is effectively defibrillated within 1 2 minutes of the onset of SCA survival rates can be as high as 90 or more. Therefore the only known way to increase the chance of survival for an SCA victim is through early detection CPR and defibrillation.

Rescuers require AED training also CPR and first aid by the Red Cross AHA or other organization on what do during the time when someone has a heart attack until help arrives. The steps that rescuers are trained to perform are 

Until recently first aid classes taught would be rescuers to check for a pulse at step 2b before starting CPR. The AHA now discourages checking for a pulse in an unconscious victim. This is largely because the AHA has found that poorly trained rescuers come to an incorrect conclusion when checking for a pulse in about 35 of cases.

AEDs can easily be found in most public and private places such as schools golf courses casinos restaurants amusement parks etc. and have been mandated on airplanes in the USA. As the number of AEDs placed in use increases so does access to these devices.

As the number of AEDs placed in use increases so does the number of lay rescuers and potentially untrained bystanders that will use these devices. In an emergency situation the lay rescuer may fail to correctly perform the steps as described above or potentially leave a step out. In addition the lay rescuer may be hesitant to place defibrillation electrodes on a victim s chest because they are unsure of their condition. This supports the AHAs decision for the lay rescuer to not check for a pulse. As described in the background of the invention the victim s chances for survival decreases with the time of detection and defibrillation. Therefore the lay rescuer or other bystander must quickly locate the AED while CPR is being administered.

The inventor sees the need for a system that expedites the rescue of a victim experiencing SCA. The system of the present invention increases the chances of survival of an SCA victim by decreasing the amount of time to complete steps 1 5. In addition the system described in the present invention performs the sequential steps where possible without error or omission.

In addition the system involves a method for expediting the rescue of a victim experiencing SCA. The inventor believes this method that those skilled in the art will appreciate will completely change the thinking of how AEDs are used and deployed. Previous thinking included a Universal Access To Defibrillation method. This method included widespread deployment of AEDs everywhere. Such an example is walking into an office or other public building looking for a fire extinguisher and finding an AED located above or in the same enclosure. Disadvantages to this method are of course primarily related to the cost of increasing the number of AEDs within a location and the associated costs with servicing maintenance etc. of these devices. The inventor believes this new method and system for expediting the rescue of victims experiencing SCA has a large advantage over this previous method. The inventor will introduce an example scenario before the advantages are discussed.

An example scenario of the new paradigm is victim is discovered potentially experiencing SCA the rescuer locates a first device located with a fire extinguisher or other known place applies the device to the patient the device calls 911 for EMS dispatch with location of the victim and also calls on site trained rescue personnel if available. The device then analyzes the patient for SCA and guides potentially a second rescuer to the location of the nearest AED. The first rescuer is then guided through administering CPR. The second rescuer locates the AED which is being indicated by the AED enclosure. The secondary rescuer or on site trained rescuer previously notified by the system removes the AED and then receives verbal instructions on location of the victim. The first rescuer has now administered CPR for approximately 1 2 minutes. If the device instructs the rescuer to attach the AED the AED is connected and a defibrillation shock is delivered. In an ideal world the victim has been converted to a normal sinus rhythm. EMS previously notified by the system arrives shortly stabilizes the victim and transports them to the local hospital or clinic.

Advantages of the new method and system are obvious the wide spread deployment of the first device as described above which costs a fraction of the cost of an AED and is easier to service maintain etc. used in concert with nearby AED with a secondary device for location decreases overall cost of the system and expedites the time a victim experiencing SCA is rescued ultimately giving the victim the optimal chances for survival. There are also other advantages that those skilled in the art will not find obvious and are described in detail below.

A block diagram of the system for expediting the rescue of victims experiencing SCA is shown in . The first device as described in the above summary is referred to as the SCA detection apparatus since its primary function is to quickly assess the victim and detect or determine if the patient is experiencing SCA. The second device as described in the above summary is referred as the location apparatus since its primary function is to locate the AED and then locate the victim once the AED has been removed from its enclosure.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection and location apparatuses contain a wireless system and global positioning system GPS as shown in . As those skilled in the art can appreciate the wireless system may be of any of the current or future wireless networks or technologies. Some examples of current technologies are Bluetooth Wi Fi Zigbee etc. In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the apparatuses contain cell phone electronics and use cellular networks. In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection is able to call the wireless network contacting dispatch for emergency medical services EMS dispatch and provides GPS location of the victim. The SCA apparatus if pre programmed is also able to call an on site trained rescuer. An on site trained rescuer could range from for example a security guard trained in CPR to an emergency physician.

As shown in the example method in the SCA detection apparatus continues to attempt to call a secondary number in the event that a primary number is busy out of service etc. In this example the primary number is 911 and the secondary number is local EMS however the numbers called by the apparatus may not be limited to emergency services.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus may have a list of prioritized numbers that are called. The prioritized list may change dynamically as the numbers are called and connections are made or not made. As those skilled in the art can appreciate the example method shown in is done as a background task so as not to affect the rapid detection of SCA and to make every attempt possible to ensure help is on the way.

The SCA apparatus device has a voice synthesizer and can transmit messages during the call. In addition the SCA device is able to locate using GPS and call a nearby AED via the location apparatus notify the location apparatus that an event has occurred and gives the GPS location of the victim. As those skilled in the art can appreciate there are no limitations to this network and more wireless branches of any kind could be added to the system diagram shown in .

The electrode area shown in is square but the area may be round or any other shape. The electrodes and surrounding pad may contain a hydrogel electrically conductive adhesive or other compound which serves to connect the SCA detection apparatus to the patient and helps to hold or stick the device in place.

In accordance with another preferred form the present invention the SCA detection apparatus release liner contains an activation component that causes the SCA detection apparatus to automatically power on when the liner is removed. As those skilled in the art can appreciate the component may be an active or inactive device. The activation component shown in is a resistor.

In accordance with another preferred form the present invention the SCA detection apparatus release liner may contain a different component wire or resistor of a different value. This allows an identification of the type of SCA detection apparatus. In other words there may be non clinical versions that are used for training and allow a re sealing so that the training device can be used multiple times. The SCA detection apparatus communicates this information and allows the AED system to be put in training mode for specific configurations of the manufacturer s AED. Other versions of the pad release liner contain instructions and diagrams that show the rescuer where to place the SCA detection apparatus and how to remove the liner etc.

Although these instructions are provided removal of the pad release liner is easy and intuitive the user simply peels the pull tab shown in to remove the liner. In addition the SCA detection apparatus need not be located exactly as shown in and will work in almost any position as long as it is located over the heart.

The SCA detection apparatus shown in is in Lead I configuration but could also be adapted for Lead II as shown in . As those skilled in the art can appreciate the SCA detection device placement could be anterior anterior anterior posterior or any other position placement as well. The SCA detection apparatus could be adapted 3 Lead 5 Lead 12 Lead or other configurations as well.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus contains a wireless system and GPS that calls EMS so that help is on the way. In other preferred forms of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus may use Blue tooth to call via a rescuer s cell phone. In yet another form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus instructs the rescuer to call 911 and has a label that instructs the rescuer where to find the nearest AED. The inventor notes that there may be many versions of the aforementioned apparatus to meet the economy of industry needs.

A block diagram of the SCA detection apparatus is shown in . The SCA detection apparatus controller circuit contains the necessary components and circuits to ensure the device works efficiently and reliably. Such examples of these are a watch dog circuit which causes the status indication system to warn the rescuer of a malfunction of the controller or other circuits.

In accordance with the present invention the watch dog circuit and status indication system are configured so that if either fails the status indication system indicates that the device is unusable ensuring the entire system is failsafe. In accordance with one form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus runs a periodic self test and uses the status indication system to notify the user of the results. The periodic self test checks the SCA detection apparatus circuitry controllers batteries etc.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA Detection apparatus contains memory to store pertinent information. As those skilled in the can appreciate the memory may be RAM FLASH EEPROM or any other type of volatile or non volatile memory. The memory may also be internal and or removable. Some examples of removable memory types are data cards multi media cards synchronous digital sticks or any other type known well by those skilled in the art.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA Detection apparatus contains a battery and is self powered. The battery contained within the apparatus may be removable disposable rechargeable non rechargeable non removable or any combination of the above well known by those skilled in the art. The apparatus also contains circuitry which allows measurement of the battery voltage and or temperature. The apparatus is capable of storing this information in memory.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA Detection apparatus contains an analog to digital converter A D and other analog or digital circuitry.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA Detection apparatus contains an ECG circuit capable of measuring the victim s electrical heart activity. The controller stores the victim s ECG in memory and runs an advisory algorithm using this information to detect or determine if the victim is in SCA. The data in memory may be removed later for post analysis of the event and to view details such as but not limited to the victim s heart rhythm ECG how long CPR was administered self test results the time and location of the victim during the event etc.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA Detection apparatus can download the post analysis event data via wireless communications to another wireless system. The SCA detection apparatus only chooses to download the data from internal memory during non clinical periods when not applied to the patient and or after a clinical event has elapsed.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA Detection apparatus contains an impedance analysis circuit to determine if the device is applied to the patient. The impedance analysis circuit may also measure the trans thoracic impedance of the patient storing the measurement in memory.

The voice instruction system and status indication system contain visual and audible components to alert the user of a number of conditions. Examples of such conditions are alerting the rescuer that the patient requires therapy alerting the user of low battery other conditions within the device etc.

In accordance with another preferred form of the present invention the SCA Detection apparatus contains a display for showing text graphics waveforms video etc.

In accordance with other preferred forms of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus may contain other detection mechanisms such as but not limited to patient pulse and heart rate patient temperature patient blood pressure patient blood oxygen level etc. as is well understood by those skilled in the art or in the medical field.

If SCA detection apparatus determines that CPR is necessary the device instructs the rescuer to perform CPR and provides a pulsed tone and or LED indicator for compressions. In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus outer surface is contoured with a hand shape shown in and is constructed to be pushed for chest compressions. The contoured hand shape on the top cover of the SCA detection apparatus allows the user to put one hand on the device and the other hand on top for performing CPR.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus gives the rescuer feedback with regard to the CPR compressions they are performing.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus contains the necessary components and circuitry for providing feedback to the user. There are many methods to provide feedback including the use of accelerometers sensors etc. well understood by those skilled in the art.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus gives feedback to the rescuer during CPR. Some examples of feedback are but not limited to compression rate compression depth CPR duration CPR respite etc.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus instructs the rescuer when to give mouth to mouth resuscitation breaths.

The concepts shown in may contain some of the concept features shown in or features that are completely different. Such examples of these features are handles knobs other manufacturer s CPR devices integrated into the apparatus etc. or other devices that are used to perform CPR that are well known by those skilled in the art.

Once an AED has been located and brought to the victim if SCA detection device instructs the rescuer to connect the AED they simply open a small pouch on the device that contains an industry standard length wire with a connector to allow connection to the AED. In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection device already contains the defibrillation electrodes. The voice command system uses simple clear instructions on how to connect the AED and to turn it on. The AED which is not part of the SCA detection device may be any manufacturer s AED defibrillator pacing device etc. that is well understood by those skilled in the art or in the medical field. Most of the aforementioned devices contain an illuminated shock button that requires the user to press to deliver a defibrillation shock.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus is compatible for use with the manufacturer s AED and electrode connection. In accordance with another preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus contains an adaptor that allows connection to the manufacturer s AED.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus AED connector is the industry standard connector per AHA ERC guidelines meaning that the AED and other manufacturers must comply with this connector by design or by the use of an adaptor.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the SCA detection apparatus senses that the AED is attached and enters silent mode so as not to confuse the rescuer with the prompts delivered by the AED.

In addition as those skilled in the art can appreciate and in accordance with the present invention the SCA detection apparatus affords the ability to first be used with one manufacturer s AED and then be used with a subsequent device by the use of an electrode connector adaptor or in an ideal world by using an industry standard connector. As those skilled in the art can appreciate examples of such subsequent devices are but not limited to other manufacturer s AEDs defibrillators patient monitors etc. This allows continuation of health care throughout the complete chain of rescue from the initial rescue situation to the transport of the patient to the hospital and transport within the hospital to the emergency care units.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus contains all of the necessary blocks in the system blocks from . The location apparatus however does not connect to a patient so certain blocks such as ECG Impedance and electrodes are not required.

Those skilled in the art can appreciate the location apparatus otherwise may have mechanisms and functions that are quite similar to the SCA detection apparatus.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus may be attached to the AED. In accordance with another preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus may be integrated into the AED. In accordance with yet another preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus may be attached to the AED but may also be part of the enclosure system. In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus is attached to the AED but sits in a docking station or charging holder within the enclosure. This enables the apparatus to stay charged while sitting in standby mode. In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus is connected to the enclosure s alarm system and triggers the alarm when called by the SCA detection apparatus. This alarm alerts an on site rescuer that an event is occurring. It also helps rescuers locating the AED to find the device.

In accordance with another preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus indication system contains the alarm system itself.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus becomes detached from the docking station or charging holder when the AED is removed.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus begins to instruct the rescuer of the location of the victim once the device is detached. As those skilled in the art can appreciate the location apparatus gives verbal instructions similar to that of a personal GPS system so the AED is quickly brought to the victim. If the rescuer is on site they can find the victim without having previous knowledge of the victim s location.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus determines when it has reached the victim s location and enters a silent or muted mode.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus when called by the SCA detection apparatus may indicate that the AED is out of service.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus when called by the SCA detection apparatus may indicate that the AED is in use.

As shown in the example method in if the SCA detection apparatus determines that the nearest AED is in use it locates the next nearest AED. As those skilled in the art can appreciate there may be many exceptions to this method in the event that the SCA detection apparatus determines that there may not be another AED located nearby and may use a pre programmed parameter and or an algorithm to decide if the AED is nearby.

In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the location apparatus when called by the SCA detection apparatus may indicate that the AED is needed in more than one location.

In U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 978 261 filed Oct. 29 2007 by Kyle R. Bowers for AUTOMTAED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR AED SYTEM WITH MULTIPLE PATIENT WIRELESS MONITORING CAPABILTY FOR USE IN MASS CASUALTY INCIDENTS and in U.S patent application Ser. No. 12 722 216 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 577 475 filed Mar. 11 2010 by Kyle R. Bowers for WIRELESS MONITORING APPARATUS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH AN AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR AED SYSTEM FOR MULTIPLE PATIENT RESCUE DURING MASS CASUALTY INCIDENTS which patent applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference the inventor teaches that a single AED can be used to treat several patient in a multiple or mass casualty incident. The same teachings can be applied to preferred forms of the present invention. As discussed earlier and looking at there is no limitation to the number of branches in the system network. In fact the network can be seen as a web or even a grid connecting several networks. As those skilled in the art can appreciate with current wireless and GPS technologies several known methods can be applied to connect one or more or all of the apparatuses which includes AEDs or any other compatible device that has or contains a location apparatus. In accordance with one preferred form of the present invention the method used by the disclosed apparatuses decides which devices they will communicate with in pairs before an event occurs. In other words looking back in this example method could be modified to have already decided which AED s are nearby.

In accordance with yet another preferred form of the present invention the method used by the disclosed apparatuses decides which devices they will communicate with in pairs during an event. In other words the method can decide either before an event i.e. both devices currently not in use and logistically close and or decide during an event i.e. one device currently in use .

In accordance with one another preferred form of the present invention the method used by the one or more of the disclosed apparatuses decides which devices they will communicate with in multiples before and or during an event. In other words one or more devices on the network decide logistically in a prioritized scheme which other devices they will communicate with regardless if one or more devices are in use. In the event of more than one casualty the apparatuses can find one or more AEDs in nearby locations so that one or more victims can be treated simultaneously.

In accordance with yet another preferred form of the present invention the method used by the one or more of the disclosed apparatuses decides that even though the AED is currently in use in one location it will be needed thereafter for a subsequent event. In other words in a mass casualty event one or more SCA detection apparatus es decide that even though there are multiple events occurring simultaneously that a single AED should be used in a prioritized sequence i.e. triage situation. This information would be communicated in concert with the locating apparatus. Looking back at the example method would be appropriately modified for a second event. As those skilled in the art can appreciate the second device may decide to skip some blocks shown in based on information at the time of the event or in the timing of a combination of events.

While the present invention has been described in terms of certain exemplary preferred embodiments it will be readily understood and appreciated by those skilled in the art that it is not so limited and that many additions deletions and modifications may be made to the preferred embodiments discussed herein without departing from the scope of the invention.

