---

title: Method of determining profiles for widget channel viewers
abstract: In a digital content entertainment system, attributes vectors storing values for attributes of each of a plurality of widgets installed in the digital content entertainment system are obtained. A profiler component automatically creates at least one profile of a viewer of the digital content entertainment system by performing a spectral clustering process on the attributes vectors. The digital content entertainment system proactively obtains and presents digital content of interest to the viewer on a display of the digital content entertainment system based on the automatically generated viewer profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08635638&OS=08635638&RS=08635638
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08635638
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100924
---
The present disclosure generally relates to the field of computing and digital content usage. More particularly an embodiment of the invention generally relates to automatically determining viewer profiles for a digital content entertainment system based on system usage.

When providing digital content for interactive television TV systems there is a need to identify and or describe the viewer in order to target the available content to the viewer or to perform an action based on the viewer s attributes. One problem is that there is often a lack of participation on the part of the viewer in providing his or her interests or specifically entering a viewer profile. Therefore there is a need to identify the demographics and interests of the viewer without requiring an opt in system and without forcing explicit inputs of that information from the viewer.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. However various embodiments of the invention may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the particular embodiments of the invention. Further various aspects of embodiments of the invention may be performed using various means such as integrated semiconductor circuits hardware computer readable instructions organized into one or more programs software or some combination of hardware and software. For the purposes of this disclosure reference to logic shall mean either hardware software including for example micro code that controls the operations of a processor or some combination thereof. Further although steps of a process may be disclosed in a certain order in various embodiments those steps may be rearranged or performed in parallel.

Widgets are small Internet applications designed to complement and enhance the traditional TV watching experience and bring content information and community features available on the Internet within easy reach of the remote control. In an embodiment each Widget comprises a self contained Javascript and XML application that runs in a managed runtime environment such as the Widget Engine in one embodiment enabling predictable and reliable operation. Widgets use the Internet to connect to the same back end Web services that support conventional browser based applications. These Web services can deliver a rich array of content and services to the TV Widgets. The user interface provides a convenient way of accessing Web based information and other services on TV while concurrently watching television or another video stream. To ensure a responsive user experience Widgets can operate continuously in the background checking for and downloading fresh information from the Internet even when the widgets are not visible on the TV display. The computing performance and memory resources of the Digital Content Entertainment System determine how many TV Widgets can run concurrently and receive data in the background.

Widgets may be created by an application developer. To be made available to a viewer a widget may be obtained via Widget Gallery Service component . In one embodiment the Widget Gallery Service comprises a web site that offers widgets for downloading to the Widget Channel System. The Widget Gallery Service handles back end services for reporting storage security and signature verification. It provides the source for differentiated services and may be updated. The Widget Gallery Service supplies a control point for the administration of business policies as well as services from third party developers. The Widget Gallery may include a diverse collection of widgets from developers service providers and consumer electronics manufacturers all of whom may use the Widget Channel API to develop widgets. The Gallery Widget comprises a component of the Widget Channel System that provides the capability for viewers to download new widgets to the Digital Content Entertainment System. It is a special purpose platform widget that connects to back end Widget Gallery Service and which manages widget downloads to the Digital Content Entertainment System. The Gallery Widget can be used to help ensure only trusted widgets are downloaded. It can also present viewers with a selection of widgets that are available to download and run on the Digital Content Entertainment System.

Once the Widget Gallery Service processes a new Widget the widget may be stored as one of the Widgets available for use by a viewer of the Digital Content Entertainment System . When a viewer is using the Digital Content Entertainment System the viewer may select a Widget to be run by Widget Engine a managed run time environment .

Individual viewers can find and select the Widgets they prefer using Search Widget . For example a sports aficionado can download a sports Widget to stay current on scores and other sports related news with the press of a button while still viewing the current program on display monitor such as a TV . Viewers can use Widgets to find more information about their favorite team or choose to interact more deeply by having the Widget take over the full screen. Service providers may provide viewers with continuous updates and recommendations about content of special interest to them.

Once the viewer finds a desirable widget the viewer may download and install the widget to the viewer s Widget Channel System. In an embodiment the Search Widget may include a search by categories widget where the categories represent attributes such as demographics interests of viewers genres of content and the like. For example one category may be age demographics which may include values of children ages 0 2 2 4 5 7 8 10 11 12 family teen young adult adult senior citizen and so on. Another example category may be the gender of the viewer. Another example category may be location of the Digital Content Entertainment System as represented by a zip code a city a state or a country. Another example category relates to content genre such as sports drama comedy news etc. Many categories of widgets may be available to search for using a Search Widget and these examples are illustrative and not limiting. Each category may be represented by an associated attribute and attribute value for the widget. For example for an entertainment widget geared to 5 to 7 year old boys in Los Angeles Calif. the widget may have the attributes of age gender location and the attribute values of 5 7 male and 90210 respectively.

As viewers select download install and run widgets over time information may be collected regarding widget usage by one or more viewers. In an embodiment this information may be used to automatically determine profiles of viewers of the Digital Content Entertainment System. In an embodiment the determining of profiles may be performed by a Profiler component of the Digital Content Entertainment System. Profiler component may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination of these implementations.

Profiler may be activated to automatically determine profiles for the viewers of the Digital Content Entertainment System without explicitly polling the viewers for input data. That is the Profiler determines profiles based on observed viewing and widget control behavior of the viewers. In one embodiment the Profiler uses the widget attribute information stored in the Widget Attributes Database to determine the profiles. Operation of the Profiler to determine and or update profiles for viewers may be performed at certain points in time depending on the specific implementation of the Profiler. For example in an embodiment the Profiler may be executed once per week once every two weeks once per month or another selected time frame. In another embodiment the Profiler may be executed once for every specified number of new widgets installed e.g. every 5 10 20 50 100 etc. . In an embodiment the Profiler may be executed whenever a widget is uninstalled. In an embodiment viewer profiles may be stored in a storage device within the Digital Content Entertainment System.

At block the average of the age attribute values may be computed based on the cluster that a selected attribute vector representing the widget being analyzed belongs to in order to determine the age for the at least one viewer profile. At block a majority vote may be performed on the gender attribute values based on the cluster that a selected attribute vector belongs to in order to determine the gender for the at least one viewer profile. At block the Profile may compute a ranking list of the rest of the attributes other than age gender zip code and income level based on the number of the attribute values that are present. In various embodiments any number of additional attributes may be used. In an embodiment another attribute may be genre. For example if for a genre attribute there are 15 Fiction widgets and 10 Nature widgets then the ranking list will have Fiction first and Nature second with a weight for each entry. In an embodiment the weight may be computed as a normalization i.e. Fiction 15 10 25 . At block the Profiler may create one profile per cluster by using the determined age gender zip code income level and ranking list. In an embodiment the Profiler may combine multiple attribute vectors to represent a single viewer and the viewer s profile. The result of the profiling process may be a set of one or more viewer profiles corresponding to each of one or more viewers. is an example of a set of profiles which may be determined by the automatic profile determining process.

Once a viewer profile has been determined the viewer profile may be referenced by the Widget Channel System in order to proactively obtain and present digital content and or widgets that may be likely to be of interest to the viewer at block . The selected digital content and or widgets may be shown on a display coupled to the Digital Content Entertainment System.

The process for automatically determining viewer profiles as described herein does not use an opt in strategy does not require viewer registration respects the privacy of the viewer due to no querying for name address or other private information and does not require a viewer login or explicit profile enrollment. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention do not assume a certain number of household members viewers or groups in the home.

Various operations discussed herein may be performed by processor in some embodiments. Processor may include a general purpose processor or other types of a processor including a reduced instruction set computer RISC processor or a complex instruction set computer CISC . Processor may have a single or multiple core design. Processors with a multiple core design may integrate different types of processor cores on the same integrated circuit IC die. Also the processors with a multiple core design may be implemented as symmetrical or asymmetrical multiprocessors. Moreover some of the operations discussed with reference to may be performed by one or more components of the Media Processing System .

Memory may store data including sequences of instructions that are executed by the processor or by any other device included in the media processing system . Furthermore memory may store one or more of the programs or algorithms discussed herein such Profiler to perform automatic determination of viewer profiles instructions corresponding to executables mappings etc. The same or at least a portion of this data including instructions may be stored in a hard disk drive not shown in and or one or more caches within processors . In one embodiment of the invention the memory may include one or more volatile storage or memory devices such as random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM or other types of storage devices. Nonvolatile memory may also be utilized such as a hard disk.

In an embodiment Media Processing System may include a memory controller to interface with memory and other components internal to the media processing system. System interconnect comprises a bus for interconnecting components within the media processing system. NAND flash controller may be coupled to a NAND storage device not shown for purposes of secure booting and code data storage and to system interconnect . A multi format hardware decoder may be included to decode single stream and multi stream video data in various well known formats. In an embodiment decoder performs multi stream decode and display of up to 1920 1080p at 60 frames per second and single stream decode and display at approximately twice that rate. Display processor may provide scaling noise reduction and motion adaptive de interlacing operations on video data. Graphics processor may provide a three dimensional 3D shader architecture. Video display controller may provide universal planes supporting both video and graphics pixels blending operations supporting sideband global and per pixel alpha blending per plane and scaling operations. Transport processor may provide programmable transport demux and two serial transport stream interfaces. Security processor may provide two smart card interfaces high definition content protection HDCP for high definition media interface HDMI data transfers and hardware acceleration of security processing. Digital signal processor DSP may support audio decoding operations. General input output I O may support connections over well known interfaces such as universal serial bus USB serial advanced technology attachment SATA and Ethernet and may connect to computer networks such as the Internet. Audio and Video I O may provide an interface to display for output of video data as well as an interface to speakers not shown for audio output.

In an embodiment of the invention display may be a flat panel display that communicates with audio and video I O through for example a signal converter that translates a digital representation of an image stored in a storage device such as video memory or system memory into display signals that are interpreted and displayed by the display . The display signals produced by the audio and video I O may pass through various control devices not shown for simplicity before being interpreted by and subsequently displayed on the display .

Digital Content Entertainment System may include volatile and or nonvolatile memory or storage . For example nonvolatile memory may include one or more of the following read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically EPROM EEPROM a disk drive a floppy disk a compact disk ROM CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD flash memory a magneto optical disk or other types of nonvolatile machine readable media that are capable of storing electronic data e.g. including instructions .

In various embodiments of the invention the operations discussed herein e.g. with reference to may be implemented as hardware e.g. logic circuitry software including for example micro code that controls the operations of a processor such as the processors discussed with reference to firmware or combinations thereof which may be provided as a computer program product e.g. including a tangible machine readable or computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions or software procedures used to program a computer e.g. a processor or other logic of a computing device to perform an operation discussed herein. The machine readable medium may include a storage device such as those discussed herein.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least an implementation. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification may or may not be all referring to the same embodiment.

Also in the description and claims the terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. In some embodiments of the invention connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements may not be in direct contact with each other but may still cooperate or interact with each other.

Additionally such computer readable media may be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer e.g. a server to a requesting computer e.g. a client by way of data signals via a communication link e.g. a bus a modem or a network connection .

Thus although embodiments of the invention have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that claimed subject matter may not be limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as sample forms of implementing the claimed subject matter.

