---

title: Real-time attendance reporting
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes periodically receiving from multiple mobile client systems multiple event attendee list updates, updating an event attendee list database based on the event attendee list updates, and periodically generating an attendance report based the event attendee list and the event attendee list updates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671001&OS=08671001&RS=08671001
owner: Eventbrite, Inc.
number: 08671001
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
The present disclosure generally relates to online event management systems and systems for managing and monitoring ticket processing and attendee check in at events.

Many websites allow users to conduct a variety of actions online such as view content write reviews order items purchase tickets etc. These websites often present the user with a plurality of actions to choose from and allow the user to select the type of action he would like to perform. Once the action is selected the website typically redirects the client system of the user to a webpage where the action can be completed. For example some websites allow users to organize events using an online event management system. An online event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An online event management system may also allow users to view event listings register for events and purchase tickets for events. Online systems such as online event management systems can typically be accessed using suitable browser clients e.g. Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer .

Entry management at events is a long established problem. Typical event organizers will have someone man the door equipped with a clipboard a list of all the registered attendees printed on paper and a pen to mark off those who have entered. The process is time consuming and breaks down when an event has multiple locations with multiple points of entry. Entry lines will often be long and slow as the person at the door looks up each person on the list. When multiple locations are involved a person could sneak into the event by giving the name of a person that went in the other door.

Event management information can be stored in relational databases. Generally a relational database is a collection of relations frequently referred to as tables . Relational databases use a set of mathematical terms which may use Structured Query Language SQL database terminology. MySQL is a relational database management system RDBMS that runs as a server providing multi user access to a number of databases. SQLite is a software library that implements a self contained serverless zero configuration transactional SQL database engine.

In particular embodiments an event management system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more event organization and management systems. An event management system may generate store receive and transmit event related data such as for example event listings event details event history details event registration details event organizer details event attendee details ticket purchase details attendee check in details and event displays. An event management system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . In particular embodiments one or more users may use one or more client systems to access send data to and receive data from an event management system . A client system may access an event management system directly via network or via a third party system. A client system may be any suitable computing device such as for example a personal computer a laptop a cellular phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC or a computing tablet.

Network may be any suitable communications network. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Connections may connect client system and event management system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable connections . In particular embodiments one or more connections include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH connections. In particular embodiments one or more connections each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network another connection or a combination of two or more such connections . Connections need not necessarily be the same throughout system . One or more first connections may differ in one or more respects from one or more second connections .

In particular embodiments an event management system may allow users to organize and manage events. An event may be for example a party a concert a conference a sporting event a fundraiser a networking event or a live performance. Events may occur online such as for example a web based seminar and offline such as for example a live seminar in a lecture hall . An online event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets managing funds from ticket sales promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An online event management system may also allow event attendees to view and manage various aspects of registering for an event such as for example viewing event listings viewing event information viewing event history information registering for events and purchasing tickets for events. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may use event management system to organize an event. The first user may input event information associated with the event to create an event listing on event management system . One or more second users may then use event management system to view the event listing and register for the event such as for example by purchasing tickets for the event. Although this disclosure describes particular types of events this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of events. Moreover although this disclosure describes organizing and managing particular aspects of an event this disclosure contemplates organizing and managing any suitable aspects of an event.

In particular embodiments an event management system may have an event listing associated with each event managed by the system. An event listing may be hosted on event management system such as for example on a particular webpage associated with the event listing. An event listing may be accessed and displayed by any suitable client system such as for example by accessing the particular webpage associated with the event listing. An event listing may have an event information associated with the event listing. Event information may include information describing the event date type cost organizer promoter geographic location venue performer tickets ticket identifiers attendees attendee check in status and other suitable event information. Although this disclosure describes particular types of event information this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of event information. An event listing may also have a payment information associated with the event listing. Payment information may include the address verification system score for the payments for the event the credit cards used to pay for the event the locations of payers the IP addresses of the payers the number and amount of prior payouts to the event organizer and other suitable payment information. Although this disclosure describes particular types of payment information this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of payment information.

In particular embodiments the event information associated with an event listing may include an event attendee list. The event attendee list may include information describing one or more of the attendees registered to attend the event include the attendee s name phone number mailing address email address payment information ticket order information ticket information check in status and other suitable attendee information. Each attendee may be assigned one or more tickets and each ticket may have a unique ticket identifier. A ticket identifier may be an identification number a barcode a 2D barcode a QR code or another suitable unique identifier. The event attendee list may also include information describing the check in status of an attendee. Check in status may indicate whether an attendee is or is not checked in at the event. As an example and not by way of limitation the check in status of an attendee may indicate the attendee is checked in after the attendee arrives at the event and provides a ticket to an event organizer. Although this disclosure describes particular types of information associated with an event attendee list this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of information associated with an event attendee list.

In particular embodiments each user of event management system may have an event history information associated with the user . Event history information may include event information and payment information associated with one or more events a user has attended or has registered to attend as well as purchase history information associated with the event. Event history information may also include event information and payment information associated with one or more event listings a user has created organized and managed. Although this disclosure describes particular event history information this disclosure contemplates any suitable event history information.

In particular embodiments the event management system may use unique client identifiers to identify a user . As an example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each client system . The event management system may assign each client system with an unique client identifier based on the IP address of the client system tracking cookies on the client system which may be appended to HTTP requests transmitted by the client system the serial number or asset tag of the client system or other suitable identifying information. As another example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each user which the user must provide to the event management system via a client system . The event management system may assign each user with a username and password that the user can input into client system which then transmits the username and password to the event management system . In particular embodiments the event management system can use the unique client identifier to determine that the user is accessing the system.

In particular embodiments the event management system may maintain an event management account for a user . The event management account may contain a variety of information about the user . As an example and not by way of limitation an event management account may contain personal information such as for example name sex location and interests social network information such as for example friend connections financial information such as for example income and credit history event history information such as for example the type data cost venue performers and geographic location of the events a user has organize registered for or attended and other suitable information related to the user . The event management account may also contain information related to the funds collected by event management system from ticket sales for event listings created by the user and information related to funds paid out to the user . Although this disclosure describes event management accounts containing particular types of information about a user this disclosure contemplates event management accounts containing any suitable information about a user .

In particular embodiments an event management system may use a shopping cart model to facilitate event registration. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may present a user with a plurality of event listings. The user may select one or more of the events to register for. When the user selects an event listing on event management system the event management system metaphorically adds that item to a shopping cart. When the user is done selecting event listings then all the items in the shopping cart may be checked out i.e. ordered when the user provides billing information and possibly shipment information . Billing information may include the user s name address credit card information bank account number PayPal username and other suitable billing or payment information. In some embodiments when a user selects an event listing then that event listing is checked out by automatically prompting the user for the billing and shipment information. The user then may be presented with a registration webpage that prompts the user for the user specific registration information to complete the registration. That webpage may be prefilled with information that was provided by the user when registering for another event or when establishing a user account on event management system . The information may then be validated by event management system and the registration may be completed. At this point the user may be presented with a registration confirmation webpage that displays the details of the event and registration details. Event management system may also charge or withdraw funds from a financial account associated with user based on the billing information provided by the user . Although this disclosure describes particular means for registering for events and purchasing tickets this disclosure contemplates any suitable means for registering for events and purchasing tickets.

In particular embodiments a user may register for an event by purchasing a ticket for the event. A user may purchase tickets for an event for himself or others. Each ticket purchase order may be associated with a particular order identifier which may be any suitable identifying information. A user may purchase one or more tickets to an event for one or more attendees. Each ticket may be associated with a particular attendee. Each attendee may be associated with a particular attendee identifier which may be any suitable identifying information. Therefore each order identifier may be associated with one or more attendee identifiers. Each attendee may be associated with one or more tickets. Therefore each attendee identifier may be associated with one or more ticket identifiers. In particular embodiments the ticket identifier is a particular barcode number.

In particular embodiments an event management system may facilitate paying out funds to an event organizer. The event management system may collect funds from ticket buyers hold these funds and transfer some or all of the funds to the event organizer. In particular embodiments one or more users may buy one or more tickets on event management system and the system may collect some or all of the funds associated with these ticket sales. As an example and not by way of limitation nine users may purchase tickets to a concert using event management system . If the tickets cost 100 each then event management system would have collected 900 from the users . In particular embodiments event management system may then pay out funds from ticket sales to an event organizer. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may transfer or deposit the funds into a financial account associated with the event organizer. Event management system may pay out some or all of the funds. For example if each 100 ticket includes an 8 service charge event management system may only pay out 92 per ticket to the event organizer. In particular embodiments event management system may pay out funds to the event organizer at particular times. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may pay out funds to an event organizer after each ticket sale. As another example and not by way of limitation event management system may pay out funds in response to a request from the event organizer. The event organizer may request to withdraw all funds from his account. Alternatively the event organize may request to withdraw less than all the funds. For example if event management system has collected 900 from selling tickets the event organizer may request that the system pay out only 700. In particular embodiments event management system may hold funds for a particular time period. Event management system may hold these funds for a time sufficient to allow payments to clear or be verified by a bank or credit card processor. If the funds used to purchase a ticket have not yet cleared event management system may hold the funds and not allow these funds to be paid out. Although this disclosure describes a particular process for paying out funds to an event organizer this disclosure contemplates any suitable process for paying out funds to an event organizer.

In particular embodiments an event management system may facilitate checking in one or more attendees to an event. Event management system may use the event attendee list to track the arrival of attendees at an event. An event organizer may use a client system to access event management system . The event organizer may then access the event attendee list. The event attendee list may be accessed and stored locally remotely or both. As an example and not by way of limitation the event organizer may download the event attendee list locally to the client system . As another example and not by way of limitation the event organizer may access the event attendee list remotely on a webpage hosted by event management system . As yet another example and not by way of limitation the event organizer may download the event attendee list from event management system and store the event attendee list locally on client system . The event organizer may then update the event attendee list locally on client system and then upload an updated event attendee list to event management system . The event attendee list may include information describing one or more of the attendees registered to attend the event include the attendee s name phone number mailing address email address payment information ticket information check in status and other suitable attendee information. In particular embodiments the event organizer may update the event attendee list to indicate the check in status of attendees as appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation the event organizer may check in an attendee when the attendee arrives at an event. When the attendee arrives at the event he may provide his ticket to the event organizer who can then access the event attendee list and update the check in status of the attendee to identify that the attendee is checked in. First an event organizer may use the event attendee list to confirm whether an attendee is listed on the event attendee list i.e. registered to attend the event and whether the attendee is already checked in to the event for example to prevent a person from sneaking in under the premise of being an attendee who has already checked in . The event organizer may search the event attendee list for a particular attendee. An attendee can provide some form of identification such as for example the attendee s name or email address. As an example and not by way of limitation if the attendee provides his name or email the event organizer can review the event attendee list to see if the attendee is on the list. Alternatively the attendee can provide a ticket which may have a ticket identifier. As another example and not by way of limitation if the attendee provides a ticket the event organizer can review the attendee list to see if the ticket identifier is on the list. Next the event organizer may use the event attendee list to identify whether or not the attendee is already checked in to the event. As an example and not by way of limitation the event attendee list may identify that an attendee is not checked in at an event by default. The event organizer may then update the check in status of the attendee to identify that the attendee is checked in. Once an attendee is checked in the event organizer may allow the attendee to enter the event. Although this disclosure describes a particular process for checking in attendees to an event this disclosure contemplates using any suitable process for checking in attendees to an event. Furthermore although this describes using particular systems for checking in attendees to an event this disclosure contemplates using any suitable systems for checking in attendees to an event.

In particular embodiments the mobile check in system may include a mobile client system a display a user interface and a camera . The mobile check in system may also host one or more applications such as for example an application for facilitating checking in one or more attendees to an event. Although thru G illustrate a particular arrangement of a mobile client system display user interface and camera this disclosure contemplates any suitable arrangement of mobile client system display user interface and camera . As an example and not by way of limitation both display and camera may be located on the front of the mobile client system . As another example and not by way of limitation display camera or both may be independent systems connected to mobile client system by a suitable connection. Moreover although thru G illustrate a particular number of mobile client systems displays user interfaces and cameras this disclosure contemplates any suitable number of mobile client systems displays user interfaces and cameras . As an example and not by way of limitation mobile check in system may include multiple mobile client systems displays user interfaces and cameras .

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may include one or more mobile client systems . The mobile client system may be a network addressable mobile computing system that can host one or more applications. In particular embodiments one or more client systems may be a mobile client system . A mobile client system may generate store receive and transmit event information event listings event attendee lists event check in data and other suitable event information. Event check in data may include for example event details event organizer details ticket details attendee details and other suitable event check in data. A mobile client system may be accessed by other systems such as one or more components of system either directly or via a suitable network such as network . In particular embodiments one or more event organizers such as users may use one or more mobile client systems to access send data to and receive data from an event management system . A mobile client system may access an event management system directly via network or via a third party system. Although this disclosure describes and thru G illustrate a mobile client system as a particular type of client system this disclosure contemplates a mobile client system as any suitable type of client system. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile client system may be a smartphone a personal computer a laptop computer a cellular phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC a computer tablet another suitable client system or two or more such client systems.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may include one or more displays . The display may render visualize display message and publish to one or more users based on output from a mobile client system . Output from the mobile client system can be transmitted to the display by any suitable connection. The display can include any suitable I O device that can enable communication between a user and display . As an example and not by way of limitation the display can include a video monitor speaker touchscreen printer another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. Although this disclosure describes and thru G illustrate a display as a particular type of I O device this disclosure contemplates a display as any suitable type of I O device.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may receive user input from one or more users via display . As an example and not by way of limitation display may be a type of touchscreen such as a resistive touchscreen a capacitive touchscreen an infrared touchscreen or another suitable type of touchscreen. The user may click touch or otherwise interact with display to select and input commands and to perform other actions. Although this disclosure describes and thru G illustrate a mobile check in system receiving user input via a particular component this disclosure contemplates mobile check in system receiving user input via any suitable I O interface. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile check in system may receive user input via keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may receive user input from one or more users via a user interface that is displayed on a display . As an example and not by way of limitation user interface may be a graphic user interface that allows one or more users to interact with the mobile check in system . A user may click touch or otherwise interact with the user interface to provide input to the mobile check in system .

The user interface may be generated by any suitable program or application. As an example and not by way of limitation the user interface may be provided in a structured document and processed by a browser client of the mobile client system . A user of a mobile check in system can use the browser client or other application to access a user interface over a network such as for example network . The user interface may be automatically generated and presented to the user in response to the user visiting or accessing the event management system a third party website or executing an application on mobile client system . As another example and not by way of limitation the user interface may be provided by a dedicated client application hosted on the mobile client system .

In particular embodiments event management system may transmit data to a mobile client system allowing it to display user interface which may be some type of graphic user interface. As an example and not by way of limitation a webpage downloaded to mobile client system may include an embedded call that causes mobile client system to download an executable object such as a Flash .SWF object which executes on the mobile client system and renders some or all of the user interface within the context of the webpage. Other interface types are possible such as server side rendering and the like. User interface may be configured to receive signals from the user via mobile client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may touch or click on user interface or enter commands from a keyboard keypad or other suitable input device. The mobile client system can respond to these signals and may transmit these signals to the event management system . The display of user interface can change based on the output of the event management system the input of the user or signals from mobile client system .

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may include one or more cameras . The camera may capture and store images. The camera may support taking photographs video or other suitable images. The camera may include a view finder. In particular embodiments the display may function as a view finder for the camera . Images captured by the camera may be stored on the mobile client system transmitted to event management system or transmitted to another suitable system.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may receive from an event management system one or more event listings. Each event listing corresponds to an event. As an example and not by way of limitation a client application hosted on mobile client system may download one or more files that include the one or more event listings. The mobile client system may also download event information associated with each event listing. The mobile check in system may receive a particular set of event listings available on the event management system . As an example and not by way of limitation the event management system may transmit event listings associated with a particular event organizer. As another example and not by way of limitation the event management system may only transmit event listings within a particular date range. Although this disclosure describes a mobile check in system using particular processes for receiving event listings this disclosure contemplates a mobile check in system using any suitable processes for receiving event listings.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may select an event listing from one or more event listings. As an example and not by way of limitation a plurality of event listings may be displayed on a display . A user may then review the event listings via a user interface . The user may then provide input to user interface to select a particular event listing from a plurality of event listings. Although this disclosure describes particular processes for selecting an event listing this disclosure contemplates any suitable processes for selecting an event listing.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may receive from an event management system an event attendee list associated with an event. The event attendee list may identify the name email address ticket identifier check in status and other suitable attendee information for each attendee registered for the event. The check in status identifies whether an attendee is checked in or not checked in. As an example and not by way of limitation the event organizer may download the event attendee list from event management system and store the event attendee list locally on client system . The event attendee list may be displayed in whole or in part on display . A user may then review the event attendee list via a user interface . The user may be able to search the event attendee list for particular attendees such as for example searching by name email address ticket identifier or another suitable search parameter. The user may then provide input to user interface to select one or more attendees from the event attendee list. Although this disclosure describes particular systems receiving and transmitting an event attendee list this disclosure contemplates any suitable systems receiving and transmitting an event attendee list.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may check in one or more attendees. The event attendee list may identify the check in status for each attendee registered for the event. Check in status may indicate whether an attendee is or is not checked in at the event. As an example and not by way of limitation an event attendee list may be displayed in whole or in part on display . The event attendee list may indicate that one or more attendees are not checked in. A user may then select one or more of the attendees and change their check in status to indicate that they are checked in. In particular embodiments the mobile check in system may receiving an indication that the attendee has arrived at an event. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may access an event attendee list on mobile client system and select an attendee from the list to indicate that an attendee had arrived. As another example and not by way of limitation a user may access an event attendee list on mobile client system select an attendee from the list and provide further input to indicate that an attendee had arrived. In particular embodiments the mobile check in system may search the event attendee list for the name email address or ticket identifier of the attendee and then select the attendee from the event attendee list. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may access an event attendee list on mobile client system . The user may input one or more search criteria into the mobile client system . The mobile client system may then search the event attendee list and identify one or more users that match the search criteria. The user may then select one or more attendees from the search results provide by the mobile client system . In particular embodiments the mobile check in system may scan a ticket for a ticket identifier and identify the attendee based on the ticket identifier. The ticket identifier may be a barcode a 2D barcode a QR code or another suitable scannable identifier. A ticket identifier may be scanned using any suitable scanning device such as for example a camera an optical scanner a barcode scanner a QR code scanner or another suitable scanning device. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may access an event attendee list on mobile client system and then scan one or more ticket identifiers from one or more tickets using camera . The mobile client system may then automatically provide an indication that the attendee associated with the scanned ticket identifier has arrived. In particular embodiments the mobile check in system may receive the name email address or ticket identifier of the attendee from a third mobile client system associated with the attendee and then identify the attendee based on the received name email address or ticket identifier. As an example and not by way of limitation an attendee may transmit a message or signal such as for example an email text message or another suitable signal to a mobile client system containing the attendee s name email address or ticket identifier. The mobile client system may then automatically provide an indication that the attendee associated with the name email address or ticket identifier has arrived. In particular embodiments the mobile check in system may update the check in status of the attendee to identify that the attendee is checked in. As an example and not by way of limitation after receiving an indication that an attendee has arrived at an event a mobile client system may access an event attendee list and change the check in status of the attendee from not checked in to checked in. Although this disclosure describes checking in attendees in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates checking in attendees in any suitable manner. Moreover although this disclosure describes checking in attendees using particular components this disclosure contemplates checking in attendees using any suitable components.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may periodically transmit to an event management system an updated event attendee list identifying the one or more attendees checked in with the mobile check in system . An event attendee list may be updated as a mobile check in system changes the check in status of attendees. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may access an event attendee list on a mobile client system and update the event attendee list by changing check in status of one or more attendees to identify that the attendees are checked in. The mobile client system may then transmit the updated event attendee list to an event management system . The mobile client system may transmit the updated event attendee list in whole or in part. As an example and not by way of limitation the mobile client system may transmit the entire event attendee list including data that has been updated and data that has not yet changed. As another example and not by way of limitation the mobile client system may transmit only the part of the event attendee list that has been updated since the last time updates were transmitted to the event management system . Updated event attendee lists may be transmitted between a mobile client system and an event management system at any suitable time. As an example and not by way of limitation a mobile client system may transmit an updated event attendee list after a certain number of attendees have checked in. As another example and not by way of limitation a mobile client system may transmit an updated event attendee list after a certain time period has passed such as for example every 1 5 or 10 minutes . Although this disclosure describes transmitting updated event attendee lists between particular components this disclosure contemplates transmitting update event attendee lists between any suitable components. Moreover although this disclosure describes transmitting updated event attendee lists at particular times this disclosure contemplates transmitting updated event attendee lists at any suitable times.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may periodically receive from an event management system an updated event attendee list that identifies one or more attendees who have checked in with one or more other mobile client systems . A plurality of mobile check in systems may be used to check in attendees into an event. As the mobile check in systems are used to check in attendees the event attendee list on each mobile check in system may be updated to identify the attendees that are checked in by that particular mobile check in system . Each mobile check in system may then transmit its updated event attendee list to the event management system . The event management system may then synchronize the updated event attendee lists from the plurality of mobile check in systems to create a new event attendee list that contains up to date check in status information for each attendee. This new updated event attendee list may then be periodically transmitted back to the mobile check in systems . The event management system may transmit the updated event attendee list in whole or in part. As an example and not by way of limitation the event management system may transmit the entire event attendee list including data that has been updated and data that has not yet changed. As another example and not by way of limitation the event management system may transmit only the part of the event attendee list that has been updated since the last time updates were transmitted to the mobile check in system . Updated event attendee lists may be transmitted to a mobile client system from an event management system at any suitable time. As an example and not by way of limitation an event management system may transmit an updated event attendee list after a certain number of attendees have checked in. As another example and not by way of limitation an event management system may transmit an updated event attendee list after a certain time period has passed such as for example every 1 5 or 10 minutes . As an example and not by way of limitation a first user on a first mobile client system may check in a plurality of attendees for an event at the front door to a venue while a second user on a second mobile client system may check in a plurality of other attendees at the rear door to the venue. The first and second mobile client systems may periodically transmit their updated event attendee lists to an event management system . The event management system may then synchronize this information and transmit a new updated event attendee list to the first and second mobile client systems . In this way the first mobile client system may receive event information identifying which attendees have checked in with the second mobile client system at the rear door to the venue. Similarly the second mobile client system may receive event information identifying which attendees have checked in with the first mobile client system at the front door to the venue. This may prevent for example an attendee from using a particular ticket at one venue entrance and then attempting to use the ticket again at another venue entrance. Although this disclosure describes transmitting updated event attendee lists between particular components this disclosure contemplates transmitting update event attendee lists between any suitable components. Moreover although this disclosure describes synchronizing event attendee lists in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates synchronizing event attendee lists in any suitable manner. Furthermore although this disclosure describes transmitting updated event attendee lists at particular times this disclosure contemplates transmitting updated event attendee lists at any suitable times.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may have a set or privileges on event management system associated with the event. Privileges on event management system may include for example the ability to create or delete event listings access particular event information update particular event information update particular event attendee lists or perform other suitable actions or processes on event management system . Privileges may be associated with a particular system mobile client system or a particular user . A plurality of mobile check in systems may be able to access the event information for a particular event listing and each mobile check in system may have a particular set of privileges associated with it. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more first mobile client systems may have a first set of privileges on event management system and one or more second mobile client systems may have a second set of privileges on event management system . The second set of privileges may be a superset a subset or independent of the first set of privileges. As another example and not by way of limitation a first user may be the creator of a particular event listing and may have a first set of privileges on event management system that include the ability to access all event information including event attendee lists associated with the particular event listing. One or more second users work as doormen at an event and may have a second set of privileges on event management system that include only the ability to update the check in status of attendees on the event attendee list for the particular event listing associated with the event. Although this disclosure describes particular users and systems with particular privileges this disclosure contemplates any suitable users and systems with any suitable privileges.

In particular embodiments a mobile check in system may be used to register one or more attendees for an event. A user of a mobile check in system may be able to register attendees for an event at the door of the event for example as the attendees arrive. A user may select an event to register attendees for. The user may then input information needed to register an attendee such as for example the attendee s personal information and billing information. The mobile check in system may then update the event attendee list to include the new attendee. As an example and not by way of limitation an attendee may arrive at an event and not be registered for the event. A user may then take the attendee s personal and billing information and input the information into a mobile client system . The mobile client system may update the event attendee list associated with the event to include the attendee. In particular embodiments the mobile check in system may receive payment from the attendee and then update the event attendee list to include the attendee. The mobile check in system may receive billing information associated with an attendee and process that billing information to receive payment from the attendee. Billing information may include the user s name address credit card information bank account number PayPal username and other suitable billing or payment information. The mobile check in system may also record receipt of cash payment by a user . Billing information may be received in any suitable manner. As yet another example and not by way of limitation an attendee who may be registered or unregistered may arrive at an event and not yet have paid to be registered for the event. A user may take the attendee s billing information and manually input the billing information into a mobile client system via the user interface . As another example and not by way of limitation a mobile client system may include a credit card reader which a user can use to swipe and charge credit cards of attendees. After receiving billing information a mobile check in system may then process the billing information to transfer funds as appropriate. Funds may be transferred from a financial account provided by the attendee to another suitable financial account such as for example to a financial account associated with the user . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may input an attendee s credit card information into a mobile client system . The mobile client system may transmit credit card transaction information to a bank or credit card processor to process the charge. After the credit card payment is approved by the bank or credit card processor the mobile client system may update the event attendee list associated with the event to include the attendee. Although this disclosure describes using a mobile check in system to register for an event in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates using a mobile check in system to register for an event in any suitable manner. Moreover although this disclosure describes a mobile check in system receiving payment in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates a mobile check in system receiving payment in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an event management system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more event organization and management systems. An event management system may generate store receive and transmit event related data such as for example event listings event details event history details event registration details event organizer details event attendee details ticket purchase details attendee check in details and event displays. An event management system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via a suitable network. Each subcomponent of event management system i.e. server data store MySQL data store and SQLite module may be accessed by other components of system either directly or via a suitable network. In particular embodiments a server may be any suitable server such as for example a server . A data store and a MySQL data store may be any suitable data stores such as for example a data store . In particular embodiments mobile client system may be a network addressable mobile computing system that can host one or more applications. A mobile client system may access send data to and receive data from an event management system . A mobile client system may access an event management system directly via a suitable network or via a third party system. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a mobile client system as a particular type of client system this disclosure contemplates a mobile client system as any suitable type of client system. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile client system may be a smartphone a personal computer a laptop computer a cellular phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant an ultra mobile PC a computer tablet another suitable client system or two or more such client systems.

In particular embodiments event management system may have one or more servers that can communicate with one or more mobile client systems over a suitable network such as for example network . As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may have an internet server for communicating with one or more client systems via the Internet. As another example and not by way of limitation event management system can have a mobile server for communicating with one or more mobile client systems via a mobile network e.g. GSM PCS Wi Fi WPAN etc. . As yet another example event management system may have one server that can communicate with one or more client systems over both the Internet and a mobile network. Communication between event management system and mobile client system may occur over any appropriate electronic communication medium or network using any suitable communications protocols. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile client system and server may include Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP networking stacks to provide for datagram and transport functions. Of course any other suitable network and transport layer protocols can be utilized.

In particular embodiments a mobile client system may communicate with event management system to receive webpages messages event attendee list updates transmit data to and receive data from event management system . In a similar fashion event management system can communicate data packets including HTTP packets data requests databases event attendee lists event attendee list updates transaction information updates etc.

In addition hosts or end systems described herein may use a variety of higher layer communications protocols including client server or request response protocols such as the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP and other communications protocols such as HTTP S FTP SNMP TELNET and a number of other protocols may be used. In addition a server in one interaction context may be a client in another interaction context. Still further in particular implementations the information transmitted between hosts may be formatted as HyperText Markup Language HTML documents. Other structured document languages or formats can be used such as JSON SQL XML and the like. Executable code objects such as JavaScript and ActionScript can also be embedded in the structured documents.

In some client server protocols such as the use of HTML over HTTP a server generally transmits a response to a request from a client. The response may comprise one or more data objects. For example the response may comprise a first data object followed by subsequently transmitted data objects. As an example and not by way of limitation a client request may cause a server to respond with a first data object such as an HTML page which itself refers to other data objects. A client application such as a browser may request these additional data objects as it parses or otherwise processes the first data object.

In particular embodiments an event management system may receive a request from a mobile client system for an event attendee list. The request from the mobile client system may be in any suitable format. The request may be received by server . As an example and not by way of limitation the request from the mobile client system may be a HTTP request message using an application programming interface API for the event management system . As an example and not by way of limitation a mobile client system may send the following HTTP request to event management system http www.eventbrite.com jsoniphone event get iphone file user key 12799892745326696292 app key NzFmZDBhZDMwMDk5 show full barcodes true id 786079184 do not display profile answers address.

Although this disclosure describes receiving a particular request from a mobile client system this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable request from a mobile client system .

In particular embodiments the event attendee list may be stored as a database. The event attendee list may include information describing one or more of the attendees registered to attend an event include the attendee s name phone number mailing address email address ticket order information payment information ticket information check in status and other suitable attendee information. The event attendee list may also include information describing the check in status of an attendee. Check in status may indicate whether an attendee is or is not checked in at the event. The event attendee list database may be structured such that there is an entry for each order identifier. Each ticket purchase order may be associated with a particular order identifier which may be any suitable identifying information. Each order identifier may be associated with one or more attendee identifiers. A user may purchase tickets for an event for himself or others attendees. Each attendee may be associated with a particular attendee identifier which may be any suitable identifying information. Each attendee identifier may be associated with one or more ticket identifier. An attendee may have one or more tickets. Each ticket may be associated with a particular ticket identifier which may be any suitable identifying information such as for example a barcode number . In summary each order identifier may be associated with one or more attendee identifiers which may be associated with one or more ticket identifiers. In other words the order identifier attendee identifier ticket identifier relationship is a 1 many many relationship. Each ticket identifier may be associated with a check in status which indicates whether or not the ticket associated with the ticket identifier is checked in or not checked in. In particular embodiments the event attendee list may be a SQLite database. SQLite is an embedded SQL database engine. Unlike some SQL databases SQLite does not have a separate server process. SQLite reads and writes directly to ordinary disk files. A complete SQL database with multiple tables indices triggers and views is contained in a single disk file. Although this disclosure describes an event attendee list as a particular type of database this disclosure contemplates an event attendee list as any suitable type of database. As an example and not by way of limitation an event attendee list may be an Oracle database a Postgres database or another suitable type of database. Moreover although this disclosure describes an event attendee list with a particular database structure this disclosure contemplates an event attendee list with any suitable database structure.

In particular embodiments an event management system may transmit a request to a data store for an event attendee list that is a SQLite database. The request may be transmitted by server . If the event attendee list is available on the data store in a SQLite format the data store will respond to the request by transmitting the event attendee list to the server . If the server receives an event attendee list that is a SQLite database from a data store the data store may then transmit the event attendee list to a mobile client system . However if the event attendee list is not available on the data store in a SQLite format the data store will respond by transmitting a message to the server indicating the event attendee list is not available. Although this disclosure describes requesting an event attendee list in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates requesting an event attendee list in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an event management system may transmit a request to a MySQL data store for an event attendee list if the event attendee list is not available on a data store . The request may be transmitted by server . In particular embodiments the event attendee list may be stored as a MySQL database on MySQL data store . MySQL is a relational database management system RDBMS that runs as a server providing multi user access to a number of databases. MySQL is designed for hosting any size of database on a server which may be accessed by a website or an application. Because MySQL is a separate server process and can be run standalone on a server it typically requires more resources than SQLite. Although this disclosure describes an event attendee list as a particular type of database this disclosure contemplates an event attendee list as any suitable type of database. Moreover although this disclosure describes an event attendee list with a particular database structure this disclosure contemplates an event attendee list with any suitable database structure.

In particular embodiments a MySQL data store may transmit an event attendee list that is a MySQL database to a SQLite module . The SQLite module may convert the event attendee list from a MySQL database into a SQLite database. The SQLite module may be any suitable SQLite converter tool. As an example and not by way of limitation the SQLite module may be database API wrapper written in the Python programming language. Although this disclosure describes converting an event attendee list from a MySQL database into a SQLite database in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates converting an event attendee list from a MySQL database into a SQLite database in any suitable manner. In particular embodiments once the SQLite module has converted the event attendee list into a SQLite database the SQLite module may transmit the event attendee list to a server .

In particular embodiments once an event management system receives an event attendee list that is a SQLite database the event management system may transmit an event attendee list that is a SQLite database to a mobile client system . The request may be transmitted by server . The event attendee list may be transmitted in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way of limitation the event attendee list may be transmitted as an HTTP octet stream via network to one or more mobile client systems . Although this disclosure describes transmitting an event attendee list in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates transmitting an event attendee list in any suitable manner. Moreover although this disclosure describes transmitting an event attendee list with a particular format this disclosure contemplates transmitting an event attendee list with any suitable format. As an example and not by way of limitation an event attendee list may be transmitted as an SQLite database a binary plist an XML file a text file or another suitable file type.

In particular embodiments an event management system periodically receive from a mobile client system an event attendee list update. An event attendee list may be updated as a mobile client system changes the check in status of attendees. The event attendee list update may identify one or more attendees checked in with the mobile client system since the last time the mobile client system transmitted an event attendee list update. In particular embodiments the event attendee list update may be an API call. As an example and not by way of limitation a mobile client system may transmit the following API call to event management system http www.eventbrite.com jsoniphone barcode update user key 12710954664137157349 barcode 1112979514895461001 used 2 Browse 2010Z12Z21.23 56 12 1112932514894896001 used 2 Browse 2010Z12Z210.23 56 44 device id iPhone 20iphonedemo eventbrite.com event id 651310086 date modified 2010 12 22 2007 56 44 app key NzFmZDBhZDMwMDk5.

In particular embodiments the event attendee list update may be a JSON string. The mobile client system may then transmit the following JSON sting to event management system 

Although this disclosure describes receiving a particular event attendee list update from a mobile client system this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable event attendee list update from a mobile client system . Event attendee list updates may be transmitted between a mobile client system and an event management system at any suitable time. As an example and not by way of limitation a mobile client system may transmit an event attendee list update after a certain number of attendees have checked in. As another example and not by way of limitation a mobile client system may transmit an event attendee list update after a certain time period has passed such as for example every 1 5 or 10 minutes . Although this disclosure describes transmitting updated event attendee lists between particular components this disclosure contemplates transmitting update event attendee lists between any suitable components. Moreover although this disclosure describes transmitting event attendee list updates at particular times this disclosure contemplates transmitting event attendee list updates at any suitable times.

In particular embodiments an event management system periodically transmit to a first mobile client system an event attendee list update. The event attendee list update may identify one or more attendees who have checked in with one or more second mobile client systems since the last time the first mobile client system receive an event attendee list update. In particular embodiments the event attendee list update may be a JSON string. As an example and not by way of limitation an event management system may transmit the following JSON sting to a first mobile client system 

Although this disclosure describes transmitting a particular event attendee list update to a mobile client system this disclosure contemplates transmitting any suitable event attendee list update to a mobile client system . Event attendee list updates may be transmitted between an event management system and a mobile client system at any suitable time. As an example and not by way of limitation an event management system may transmit an event attendee list update after receiving a certain number of event attendee list updates from a plurality of mobile client systems . As another example and not by way of limitation an event management system may transmit an event attendee list update after a certain time period has passed such as for example every 1 5 or 10 minutes . As yet another example and not by way of limitation an event management system may transmit an event attendee list update after receiving a request from a mobile client system . Although this disclosure describes transmitting updated event attendee lists between particular components this disclosure contemplates transmitting update event attendee lists between any suitable components. Moreover although this disclosure describes transmitting event attendee list updates at particular times this disclosure contemplates transmitting event attendee list updates at any suitable times.

In particular embodiments an attendance report may be generated by a software application that may be executed on any system such as for example client system or event management system . thru J illustrate a webpage based application accessed from browser client however any suitable application on any suitable client system may be used. In particular embodiments a user of event management system may use browser client to access user interface over a network . User interface may be automatically generated and presented to the user in response to the user visiting or accessing a website or executing an application on a suitable client system with a suitable browser client . An event management system may transmit data to the client system allowing it to display the user interface which is typically some type of graphic user interface. As an example and not by way of limitation a webpage downloaded to the client system may include an embedded call that causes the client system to download an executable object such as a Flash .SWF object which executes on the client system and renders one or more components of the interface within the context of the webpage. Other interface types are possible such as server side rendering and the like. User interface is configured to receive signals from the user via the client system. For example the user may click on user interface or enter commands from a keyboard or other suitable input device. As an example and not by way of limitation a user selects a type of attendance report for event management system to display. A user may also customize the display of each report such as for example by selecting the time range for the attendance report to display data from.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors 802. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Furthermore a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein an A or the A means one or more A unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover this disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of one or more features from any example embodiment with one or more features of any other example embodiment herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

