---

title: Airspace risk mitigation system
abstract: An airspace risk mitigation system includes a plurality of airspace input sources, an airspace data fusion and sensor coordination system, a communications link, and a risk mitigation support system. The airspace input sources includes a radar for generating radar data for an airspace, and an Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) receiver for generating additional data for the airspace. The airspace data fusion and sensor coordination system is configured to receive airspace data from the plurality of airspace input sources, correlating airspace data with new or known objects in the airspace, fusing airspace data into a common airspace data set, and generating target and system status information. The risk mitigation support system is configured to calculate a risk associated with aircraft operation in the airspace as a function of the target and system status information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08368584&OS=08368584&RS=08368584
owner: The University of North Dakota
number: 08368584
owner_city: Grand Forks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100610
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 185 790 entitled Airspace Risk Mitigation System filed Jun. 10 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention was developed at least in part with U.S. Government funding pursuant to Department of Defense contract Nos. FA4861 06 R C006 and FA4861 07 R C003. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Conducting flight operations of any kind in airspace where aircraft not under one s direct control or where communications between such aircraft do not exist can be considered dangerous. Such situations may occur when unusual operations of aerostats tethered balloons unmanned aircraft rockets or other aerial vehicles are flown in unrestricted airspace. For example after a severe weather incident flight of manned or unmanned aircraft is desired to examine the extent of possible damage to personnel or property on the ground. Because of the weather event normal air traffic control services which might have provided a risk mitigation strategy are not available. Additionally in the attempt to provide the greatest level of information dissemination the area might not be restricted to media or other disaster relief aircraft. A system that would allow such activities to take place while maintaining a high level of safety would be invaluable to disaster relief agencies or others needing to conduct such operations.

In particular the rapid development of Unmanned Aircraft Systems UAS in the United States and worldwide has generated investment in research technologies and systems at an unprecedented rate. The proven successes of Unmanned Aircraft UA in military environments and rapid advances in commercial navigation automation and sensing technologies have created new opportunities for civilian applications discussed in the preceding paragraph of UAS. These opportunities have in turn imposed ever increasing pressure on the Federal Aviation Administration FAA to respond with certification standards and regulations that will allow UA access to the National Airspace System NAS even in times of emergency. These standards and regulations by necessity will apply to all UAS operators.

Overshadowing all areas of this regulatory effort is the FAA s mandate to quantify and achieve a target level of safety that is consistent with the current level of safety of manned aircraft with respect to ground fatalities and mid air collisions. As a risk mitigation strategy it can be difficult to perform certain aviation operations and maintain that level of safety. An equivalent level of safety is a term heard often today. It implies that in part any system or operation that effectively replaces a particular capability of the pilots left on the ground especially their ability to see and avoid other aircraft must be as good or better than the pilot it replaces.

For Unmanned Aircraft UA operations but it could apply to any operation that makes it more difficult to see and avoid other aircraft FAA policy memo 08 01 gives Military Public and Private operators of Unmanned Aircraft Systems guidance on how operations are to take place and what approaches are allowed for Sense and Avoid SAA . When unable to comply with Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations part 91.111 and 91.113 the operator may use alternative risk mitigation strategies such as observers on the ground provided the UA is flown below three thousand feet above the ground AGL and within one mile laterally. If the UA is to be flown higher or farther from the observer the UA must be chased by aircraft with an on board observer. If the UA is flown in restricted airspace however no specific means of SAA is needed due to the nature of the airspace.

Although most UA will be equipped with GPS based technologies such as Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast ADS B or other standard navigational aides such technology cannot be assumed to be in place on other aircraft operating in the same airspace as the UA. This argues for the need for additional non line of sight methods for monitoring the complete airspace desired for UAS deployment.

Operationally radar systems have been used for the detection and deconfliction of aircraft for over fifty years. Recent advances in radar technology along with corresponding advances in communications computing and data processing now provide the capability for unprecedented real time surveillance of large volumes of the atmosphere.

Generally the present invention is directed towards enabling the operation of any craft in a localized area of the NAS through the development of a Ganged Phased Array Radar Risk Mitigation System GPAR RMS . This system is capable of sensing all cooperative and un cooperative aircraft sufficiently to determine their positions and analyze the risk of introducing another target into the given airspace. When small UA those without ADS B transponders are deployed the system of the present invention is also capable of directly notifying manned ADS B equipped aircraft of the UA s position via an ADS B broadcast from the UA Ground Control Station GCS . This Risk Mitigation System RMS will permit a high degree of situational awareness collaboration between a broad array of users and a method to link information systems and users together in an efficient and effective manner. Such a system will provide for effective decision making regarding the safety of such operation.

The system described herein is not a ground based sense and avoid system SAA . The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration has implicitly relied on the eyesight of human pilots as the last chance SAA means to avoid midair collisions when radar coverage is absent or transponders are inoperable or not installed. DoD Adopts ASTM Intl Sense and Avoid Standard For UAV Certifications IHS 23 June 2005 at . However systems such as the Traffic Collision Avoidance System TCAS are also used to perform SAA. A SAA system must be capable of sensing the close proximity of and impending collision with another aircraft. It must then provide an automated maneuver command to the aircraft that will cause it to avoid the impending mid air collision. The Standard Specification for Design and Performance of an Airborne Sense and Avoid System was developed by ASTM International s F38 Committee on Unmanned Aircraft Systems. As stated by ASTM International automating SAA is the key technical hurdle precluding unmanned aviation operating on an equal footing with manned aircraft. DoD Adopts ASTM Intl Sense and Avoid Standard For UAV Certifications IHS 23 June 2005 at . The system described herein is not an SAA system. Rather it is a risk mitigation system that provides aircraft identification and deconfliction well before aircraft get close enough for SAA to be required.

The FAA has determined that UA are aircraft. They have noted that there is no distinction between unmanned aircraft and any other aircraft from a regulatory standpoint. The only disconnect is the location of the pilot of the unmanned aircraft. The rules governing the aviation community apply as well to the unmanned aircraft community. With this distinction it is wise to note that tracking and providing deconfliction of aircraft with radar is a technique developed in the 1930 s. In 1946 the Civil Aviation Authority CAA unveiled an experimental radar equipped tower for control of civilian flights. By 1952 the CAA had begun its first routine use of radar for approach and departure control.

More specifically the use of phased array radars for such purposes was begun in the 1960 s. The use of radars to detect other targets e.g. balloons birds parachutists etc. within the atmosphere is no different than previous uses to detect aircraft. The radars are able to determine the location of the target relative to the radar which can then be easily converted into a latitude longitude and altitude location through the use of Great Circle Equations and spherical trigonometry.

During this same period of time the FAA began successful testing of a system under which flights in certain positive control areas were required to carry a radar beacon called a transponder which when linked to a specific radar return identified the aircraft and helped to improve radar performance. Displaying and tracking aircraft and other airspace is commonly done as part of today s Air Traffic Control environment.

The GPAR RMS however differs from all others as it is designed with multiple radars observing a common airspace. Each radar has its own display supplied by the manufacturer s . This display generally is too simplistic for the use in an application as described herein. The multiple radar data in the GPAR RMS are combined with other sources of information regarding target position e.g. GPS ADS B etc. . This information is then passed to multiple displays. Each display is tailored to meet the requirements for a specific component of the GPAR RMS.

While the above identified drawing figures set forth several embodiments of the invention other embodiments are also contemplated as noted in the discussion. In all cases this disclosure presents the invention by way of representation and not limitation. It should be understood that numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art which fall within the scope and spirit of the principles of the invention. The figures may not be drawn to scale.

In general the present invention is an airspace risk mitigation system that integrates aircraft position data from a plethora of sources such as Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast ADS B one or more ground based radars and telemetry data from Global Positioning System GPS equipped aircraft and displays said data on one or more display systems. The present invention includes a Risk Mitigation Support System that analyzes air traffic trajectories and performs risk assessment on the airspace and a Data Manager that combines the disparate data and multicasts the data to a high resolution Range Control Center Information Display System RCCIDS and any number of high resolution Ground Observer Information Display Systems GOIDS . The RCCIDS provides information to a Range Control Operator whose responsibility is the overall safety of the airspace. The GOIDS provides information to the ground based observer who fulfills the same aircraft deconfliction role as visual line of sight ground based observers do under current FAA unmanned aircraft UA regulations. In one embodiment the present invention can also acquire UA position information from the UA GCS and feed that information into the system s ADS B transponder for broadcast e.g. broadcast into the airspace . Thus in a sense the present invention can spoof the ADS B transponder into thinking it is onboard the UA when it is not. The system provides a mechanism for the identification and mitigation of the risks involved when a multitude of aircraft types are operated in a common airspace.

As shown in the present invention provides an airspace risk mitigation system that employs an Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System to integrate aircraft position latitude longitude and altitude data from a plethora of sources such as ground based Radar Systems Telemetry Streams from a global positioning system GPS equipped aircraft and aircraft equipped with an Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast ADS B receiver . The system further employs a Weather Station and a Weather Radar source such that up to date weather information is acquired a Weather Radar Information Display System and a Range Control Center Information Display System to provide the Range Control Operator with a concise view of the airspace and weather and one or more Ground Observer Information Display System s to provide one or more Ground Observers with a concise view of the airspace relevant to their operations. Commercial off the shelf voice communications between the Range Control Operator Ground Observer and UA Operator illustrated as dashed lines provide a mechanism for airspace risk mitigation. It should be noted that these communications can be of the same nature as that provided by Air Traffic Control ATC in the National Airspace NAS .

As shown in each Radar System for simplicity only one is illustrated includes a Radar as supplied by a radar manufacturer e.g. antenna transmitter receiver software to produce radar products radar housing equipment and necessary connecting resources a Radar Control Computer which may or may not be supplied as part of the manufacturer s radar system that is used for controlling each Radar Data Signal Processing component that is separate from the manufacturer supplied system and that is used to post process radar data and a commercial off the shelf media storage device . The Data Signal Processing component can be located on the Radar Control Computer or on a separate computer as shown . The Data Signal Processing component sends the raw data to Storage and prepares the data for data transfer via a Communications Link to the Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System . The Storage can be any suitable storage means readable by computer or other means.

The Radar Control Computer is configured to supply commands to the Radar such as starting and stopping scans and instructing the Radar to change scan strategies. The Radar Control Computer can be remotely accessed from the Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System through the two way Communications Link . The Radar supplied by the manufacturer may also provide some data processing capabilities. However the risk mitigation system requires a second Data Signal Processing component connected to the Radar to perform additional post processing of radar data which includes detection of potential targets preparation compression of weather radar data if available and storage of raw radar data in Storage . This component maybe integrated with the Radar Control Computer if capable or can be a separate system as shown . Post processing is required to reduce the amount of information sent across the Communication Link to the Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System . In the preferred embodiment the Communications Link can be a commercial off the shelf full duplex communication system providing two way communications between the Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System and each Radar System . Depending on the specifics of the installation the Communications Link can be a land based communication system such as Ethernet or an equivalent wireless system. It is assumed that all radar system components can receive power through a generator or a local power grid not shown .

The Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System is a multithreaded software system that includes multiple threads such as a Radar Polling Thread Telemetry Polling Thread ADS B Polling Thread and a Weather Polling Thread for monitoring the connected sensors a Data Fusion thread to combine the sensor data into a single datum an ADS B Spoofing Thread a Radar Management thread a Risk Mitigation Support System thread a Multicaster thread and a Storage device. The Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System also includes a Thread Manager for monitoring system status and providing an output to a System Status Display

The Data Fusion thread utilizes inputs of airspace data airborne object locations from several sources including the Radar System s an ADS B transponder and optional Telemetry Streams for monitoring telemetry reporting equipped target positions such as balloons rockets airplanes and UA. The individual polling threads use different techniques to monitor their respective sensors as the sensors have different types of hardware interfaces. The Radar Polling Thread uses a BSD style socket to receive airborne object positional data and radar system status information via the Communications Link from the Radar System . As data are collected they are stored in a local queue not shown . The Telemetry Polling Thread uses a BSD style socket to receive object positional data from airborne objects that are equipped with telemetry reporting equipment. This includes objects such as balloons rockets airplanes and UA that have the ability to transmit their location either through ground control stations and or onboard transmitting devices such as a GPS transmitter. The data are then stored in another local queue. The ADS B Polling Thread uses a serial port to receive object positional data from airborne objects that are equipped with an ADS B transceiver. The data are then stored in another local queue. The queued data are then used by the Data Fusion thread which fuses the information into one common airspace picture. The Data Fusion thread correlates incoming object data to other known objects. After an algorithm determines a match with a known object or that the incoming target data is associated with a new object the new information is fused with the previous information from other sensors collected on that matched target. If there is no known object that highly correlates with the incoming object information the incoming object information is considered to be from a new object and is added to the list of known targets. As the data is fused it is passed to the Multicaster thread via a queue for dissemination. The above describes one embodiment however alternative embodiments are possible as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System also includes a mechanism for spoofing the ADS B transponder into thinking it is on board the UA. This is particularly useful when the UA for whatever reason cannot carry its own ADS B unit. The ADS B Spoofing Thread receives UA telemetry data from the Telemetry Polling Thread and sends that data to an ADS B Transponder where the data are broadcasted to indicate the actual location of the UA. As long as the UA doesn t go lost link and remains within line of sight of the GCS this mechanism allows the UA to act as a cooperative aircraft without the weight and power penalty of physically carrying an ADS B unit. Thus in some embodiments the system of the present invention can operate with a UA that does not physically carry an ADS B unit.

One embodiment of this spoofing mechanism extracts the required positional data from the Telemetry Polling Thread output stream and reformats it into another output format such as that used by an ARINC 743A positional sensor. These data packets are then transmitted out a serial port and into for example a RS 232 to ARINC 429 converter unit. The resulting ARINC 429 stream can then be fed into an ARINC 429 input port on a Garmin GDL 90 ADS B unit ADS B transponder . The GDL 90 can be programmed to ignore its internal WAAS GPS receiver and use only the ARINC 743A positional information being fed from the computer. The GDL 90 unit then operates in its normal capacity as an ADS B transceiver except that it broadcasts the position of the UA itself while remaining on the ground in the GCS i.e. remote from the UA . The above describes one embodiment however alternative embodiments are possible as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The Weather Polling Thread monitors a serial port to receive weather information temperature air pressure wind speed and direction etc. from a commercial of the shelf Weather Station co located with the Range Control Center. As data are collected they are stored in a local queue not shown and passed to the Multicaster thread for dissemination.

The Radar Management thread receives system status information about the Radar System s from the Radar Polling Thread and risk information from the Risk Mitigation Support System . The Radar management system continuously monitors the status of the individual Radar Systems and overall airspace risk produces a health parameter radar transmitter status radar receiver status and radar beam steering status for each Radar has an interface to remotely control each Radar through the Communications Link to be used if human intervention is available and desired and includes a decision support system for providing automatic alterations of radar scanning strategies. If one or more Radar System were to stop operating the decision support system adjusts the scanning strategies of the remaining Radars if needed to ensure complete coverage of the airspace and to optimize the revisit time to ensure accurate tracking of targets. If the air traffic density results in an elevated risk in a region of the monitored air space the decision support system will automatically task one of the radars to scan that region more intensely either finer spatial resolution or smaller revisit time or both . The above describes one embodiment however alternative embodiments are possible as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The Risk Mitigation Support System is a software thread that determines the risk associated with operating in the current airspace. As shown in a moving aircraft is constrained by parameters that govern the maneuverability of a set of aircraft to be determined. Maneuverability limitations include limits to pitch and banked turns associated with aircraft flight. Constraints on pitch will include achieving for upward motion and down to 0 g for downward motion corresponding roughly to 60 degrees up or down. Constraints on banking motion will be governed by the radius of the turn r velocity true airspeed v gravity g and the angle of bank related by equation 1 

Because the vehicle of interest has a known flight path its interaction volume is a product of the cross sectional area and the aircraft speed and direction. For demonstrative purposes the interaction volume of the vehicle of interest is shown in as a 3D ellipse. Because the flight path of any manned aircraft operating in the airspace will have an unknown flight path they are not under our control its potential path interaction volume is modeled as a 3D cone like shape extending from the aircraft. For demonstrative purposes the interaction volume of the manned aircraft in the airspace is shown in as a 3D cone. The actual shape of the cone like volume is determined by the expected maneuverability limitations as defined above of aircraft operating in the specific airspace. Thus different airspaces could have significantly different cones associated with each aircraft due to FAA flight restrictions as well as aircraft performance characteristics . Additionally the cone is segmented into velocity determined sections that result in possible distances the aircraft will be located at a future time. The possibility of an interaction of the two aircraft is determined by the overlap of the cross sectional areas.

Because there is no contact or communication with any manned aircraft operating on our area it is assumed that the manned aircraft s path is non deterministic as the possible paths through the cone like volume have widely differing probabilities of occurrence. For example in order for an aircraft to follow a path near the edge it would have to operate near the limits of its maneuverability a rather unlikely occurrence. While following a path through the center represents straight and level flight a rather likely occurrence. Thus the probability of interaction is determined by a constrained random walk based on numerical techniques. This is similar to widely used Monte Carlo methods for describing physical phenomenon. The simulation determines the probability of an interaction at any instantaneous time as the ratio of the number of interactions with the number of total number of random paths through the cube.

In only the simplest least populated airspaces could a brute force Monte Carlo simulation provide near real time results on currently available computing hardware. Thus some embodiments employ techniques to reduce the computations data into a fast reliable formula or set of formulae. Two methods are developed 1 Probability Formula and 2 Table Interpolation. The probability formula is used to determine a probability of interaction based on the time dependent data from real airborne objects. The formula can give a result immediately which is desired in real time situations. The Probability Formula is derived from the Monte Carlo simulation using millions of aircraft paths through the cube. The result is a probability as a function of discrete variables. A fitting program is used to represent the discrete data into a smoothly varying function. In real time situations the ensuing aircraft will enter into the critical area around the target with a heading and speed. These data can then be fed into the Monte Carlo derived formula and a probability of interaction can then immediately be determined. A second method involves interpolation of data tables determined from the output of the Monte Carlo calculations. Given input variables the interpolation code can determine the correct table and produce a probability of interaction. The scalability of data coming from the Monte Carlo simulation allows updated distance information to be recalculated as a new probability of interaction. For example if a new aircraft enters the airspace of the aircraft of interest and is determined to be closer than 50 miles the simulation data can be scaled to match the new information and a new probability can be determined. This is done with an interpolation formula of the data using tabulated data from the Monte Carlo simulations.

To summarize the risk calculation is based on three sources 1 Data Accuracy 2 Weather and 3 Airborne Objects Monte Carlo Simulation . Data accuracy is determined by the errors associated with each input location parameter provided by the Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System . The data accuracy inclusion will manifest itself as increasing or decreasing the location error associated with weather conditions or airborne objects resulting in a higher or lower probability of interaction respectively. The data accuracy is scaled to 1.0 for optimum working conditions. Any source of non optimal operating circumstances e.g. loss of a radar will increase the scale factor. For example an increased location error increased scale factor multiplier would result in a larger 3 D cone with velocity contours that are spaced further out indicating a higher chance of interaction. Weather conditions will be treated as an airborne object for example a storm that is approaching will be treated as a slow moving aircraft. Interaction with the storm will be treated with the same interaction probabilities as a regular aircraft. The total probability of interaction will be determined by that which is the greater of the two the Monte Carlo simulation or the current weather conditions both of which have already taken into account the data accuracy. The above describes one embodiment however alternative embodiments are possible as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Once the risk associated with operating in the current airspace risk parameter is derived the Risk Mitigation Support System passes this information to the Multicaster for transmission over a local area network LAN or other data transfer means to the Range Control Center Information Display System RCCIDS and Ground Observer Information Display System GOIDS .

The Multicaster thread monitors the queue connecting it to the Data Fusion thread the queue connecting it to the Weather Polling Thread and a shared memory space connecting it to the Risk Mitigation Support System . As the data is collected it is stored in a local buffer not shown . Once the buffer is filled the Multicaster thread calculates a checksum value and multicasts the contents of the buffer over a local area network LAN . In addition to multicasting the data over the LAN the data are also recorded on a Storage device such as a hard drive. The above describes one embodiment however alternative embodiments are possible as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System also includes a Thread Manager and a System Status Display prototype shown in . Because the Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System is a multithreaded system a simple method to manage the state of the individual threads is to create a Thread Manager and have it act as the main program spawning all threads and monitoring their state. Should any thread fail to provide a heartbeat as expected for that thread that failed thread is forcibly terminated and both ends of any associated queues are closed. The failed thread is then respawned and the associated queues reattached. The System Status Display continually provides graphical feedback to the Range Control Operator regarding the state of the overall Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System .

One embodiment of the System Status Display uses OpenGL and a 24 inch wide high resolution monitor however any graphics API e.g. Direct X etc and or any type of computer or display can be used.

The Weather Radar Display includes a Web Browser set to periodically receive Doppler weather radar data from a Weather Radar source such as the National Weather Service website and a Display . An example screen shot of Display is shown in .

The RCCIDS comprises a Data Polling Thread and a Display . The Data Polling Thread monitors the Ethernet port for data being broadcast using the multicast IP address. As each block of data is received it is checked for errors using a checksum calculation. The data are then passed to the Display where they are graphically rendered. In one embodiment the Display and Display share a single a 20 inch wide high resolution monitor not specifically shown however any type of display or computer or combination thereof may be used. The Display an example screen shot of which is shown in is modeled after existing Air Traffic Control ATC display systems Traffic Information Service Broadcast TIS B display systems and Flight Information Service Broadcast FIS B display systems. From left to right the embodiment of the Display shown in displays the following 

One embodiment of the display uses OpenGL and a 24 inch wide high resolution monitor however any graphics API e.g. Direct X etc and or any type of computer may be used.

The second IDS is the Ground Observer Information Display System GOIDS . The GOIDS monitors the multicast output stream produced by the Airspace Data Fusion and Sensor Coordination System and presents relevant airspace information to the Ground Observer .

The GOIDS comprises a Data Polling Thread and a Display . The Data Polling Thread monitors the Ethernet port for data being broadcast using the multicast IP address. As each block of data is received it is checked for errors using a checksum calculation. The data are then passed to the Display where they are graphically rendered. The Display an example screen shot of which is shown in is modeled after existing Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast ADS B cockpit display systems. From left to right the embodiment of the Display shown in displays the following 

One embodiment of the display uses OpenGL and a 24 inch wide high resolution monitor however any graphics API e.g. Direct X etc and or any type of computer may be used.

There are several benefits to using a multicast approach for the delivery of information to the information display systems. For instance use of a multicast approach allows the system to be expandable to any number of vehicles of interest and any number of associated information display systems without any architectural or software changes. As long as each vehicle of interest can be uniquely identified by either ADS B transmissions or the telemetry stream a GOIDS can be assigned to each unique vehicle. Lastly use of a multicast approach also increases the probability that all information display systems connected to the network will be displaying the same data at any instant. Additional features and benefits will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

