---

title: Managing a client application session based on a status of a local wireless connection between primary and secondary communication terminals
abstract: In an embodiment, a secondary communication terminal (CT) executes a client application to engage in a client application session (CAS), the secondary CT configured to connect to a primary CT over a local wireless connection (LWC), the primary CT having a higher-quality user interface environment as compared to the secondary CT. The secondary CT establishes the LWC with the primary CT during the CAS and, responsive to the establishment, negotiates with the primary CT to selectively transition the CAS to the primary CT. Alternatively, the primary CT executes the client application before the establishment and negotiates with the secondary CT to selectively transition the CAS to the secondary CT. In another embodiment, the primary CT hosts the CAS while the LWC is established with the secondary CT. Then, upon disconnection of the LWC, the secondary AT selectively transitions the CAS to the secondary CT.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08661141&OS=08661141&RS=08661141
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08661141
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100618
---
The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to managing a client application session based on a status of a local wireless connection between primary and secondary communication terminals.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or communication terminals CT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with CTs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints CTs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or communication terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple communication terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target communication terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or communication terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or communication terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or communication terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one communication terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all communication terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment a secondary communication terminal CT executes a client application to engage in a client application session CAS the secondary CT configured to connect to a primary CT over a local wireless connection LWC the primary CT having a higher quality user interface environment as compared to the secondary CT. The secondary CT establishes the LWC with the primary CT during the CAS and responsive to the establishment negotiates with the primary CT to selectively transition the CAS to the primary CT. Alternatively the primary CT executes the client application before the establishment and negotiates with the secondary CT to selectively transition the CAS to the secondary CT. In another embodiment the primary CT hosts the CAS while the LWC is established with the secondary CT. Then upon disconnection of the LWC the secondary AT selectively transitions the CAS to the secondary CT.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an communication terminal CT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . A communication terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple communication terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each communication terminal and such outside networks. A communication terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active communication terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. A communication terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. A communication terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. A communication terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the communication terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to a communication terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote communication terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the communication terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the communication terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more communication terminals .

Referring to an communication terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a communication terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the communication terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the communication terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the communication terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the communication terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Conventionally relatively powerful computing devices or communication terminals CTs such as desktop or laptop computers are configured to execute client applications. For example it is common for CTs such as desktop or laptop computers to execute instant messaging IM applications that permit a user of the computer to exchange text voice and or video media with one or more other participants to an IM session. The user interface UI environment of the desktop or laptop computer generally has a higher quality or more fully featured UI environment as compared to more mobile CTs such as handsets or mobile phones. For example it is common for desktop and laptop computers to have a full keyboard a large and or high resolution display and or other peripheral devices e.g. a printer a mouse a trackball a web cam etc. that increase the quality of the user s experience with the client application being executed thereon.

Increasingly client applications like the IM application described above are being ported to lower power CTs with a more restricted UI environment. While this extends the usability of the client application the client application is typically embodied with reduced features on lower power CTs such as a smaller keyboard a reduced resolution display screen e.g. a 3.5 LCD screen as compared to a large desktop or laptop monitor fewer available services e.g. text only for the IM application and not voice video etc.

Accordingly assume that a user is relatively far away from a primary CT e.g. a CT with a higher quality UI environment such as a laptop or desktop computer station and that the user is carrying a secondary CT e.g. a CT with a lower quality UI environment such as a mobile phone or handset . In this case if the user wishes to launch the client application the user selects an option for launching the client application on the secondary CT because the primary CT is remote and unavailable. Later assume the user arrives at the primary CT and begins work on the primary CT. If the user wishes to transition his her client application session from the secondary CT to the primary CT the user manually shuts down the client application on the secondary CT and selects an option on the primary CT for launching the client application thereon.

In another example assume that a user is positioned at the primary CT and that the user is also carrying the secondary CT. In this case if the user wishes to launch the client application the user selects an option for launching the client application on the primary CT at least in part due to the UI environment provided by the primary CT over the secondary CT. Later assume the user walks away from the primary CT. As will be appreciated the user is no longer close enough to the primary CT to interact with the client application being executed thereon. If the user wishes to transition his her client application session from the primary CT to the secondary CT the user manually selects an option on the secondary CT for launching the client application thereon. The user can also shut down the client application on the primary CT before leaving the primary CT.

It will be appreciated that in order to ensure that a desired CT is hosting a client application session for a user manual initiation or launching of the client application on the desired CT by the user is typically required where the user has multiple CT options for launching and or continuing a client application session. Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to managing a client application session based at least in part upon whether a primary and secondary CT are connected over a local wireless connection.

While not shown explicitly below in the embodiments of the primary and or secondary CT can connect to the application server via the RAN or alternatively can connect to the application server via some other type of connection mechanism e.g. a wired Internet connection etc. . Thus while illustrate the primary and secondary CTs connecting directly to the application server it will be appreciated that their respective connection to the application server can be mediated by any type of access network.

The secondary CT can correspond to a mobile electronic device e.g. a phone or handset an MP3 player etc. and the secondary CT has a UI for interacting with a client application executable thereon with the secondary CT s UI being reduced and or different from the UI of the primary CT. For example the secondary CT s UI can be associated with a smaller keyboard than a keyboard of the primary CT a lower screen resolution than a display of the primary CT less battery life than the primary CT e.g. which may not even require a battery for operation etc.

The primary and secondary CTs can communicate with each other over a local wireless connection such as a Bluetooth connection or any other type of short range peer to peer wireless connection. The local wireless connection can be any wireless connection that has a relatively small connection range. Accordingly a Bluetooth connection has a range of approximately 10 meters which is relatively small. However a base station s connection to a mobile station can potentially be on the order of miles which would not qualify as a local wireless connection.

As shown in the communication terminal A is configured to support a connection to the RAN over the air interface similar to . The communication terminal A is configured to further support multiple local wireless connections LWCs with local devices such as a touch screen device B a laptop C and or a desktop computer D via LWCs and respectively.

Referring to in A the secondary and primary CTs are configured to support a local wireless connection e.g. Bluetooth etc. and the secondary and primary CTs are not currently connected over the local wireless connection. In it may generally be assumed that the secondary CT is mobile and will be carried on the person of the user whereas the primary CT does not necessarily travel with the user e.g. although in at least one embodiment the primary CT can be a mobile device such as a laptop computer which can move with the user some of the time . In at least one embodiment of the invention the local wireless connection between the secondary and primary CTs is established whenever the secondary and primary CTs are close enough to support the local wireless connection such that the absence of the local wireless connection implies that the secondary and primary CTs are physically or geographically separated by more than the range of the local wireless connection e.g. although it is also possible that one or more of the secondary and primary CTs is simply turned off or otherwise disabled .

Next in A the secondary CT loads a client application in order to initiate a client application session with the application server . In an example the client application can be loaded in A responsive to a request by a request from a user to load the client application. In an example the client application can correspond to an IM application and the client application session thereby corresponds to an IM session. In another example the client application can correspond to a game application and the client application session thereby corresponds to a gaming session.

After loading or launching the client application in A the client application of the secondary CT registers with the application server that will be supporting the client application session for the user A. In an example if the secondary CT corresponds to a mobile phone the registration of A can include obtaining a traffic channel TCH from the RAN and then sending a reverse link registration message to the RAN over the TCH to be forwarded to the application server which acknowledges the registration of the secondary CT s client application.

After registering with the application server the user engages via the client application in a client application session that is arbitrated by the application server A. For example if the client application session is an IM session the client application at the secondary CT can send and or receive IMs to and or from other IM session participants at the direction of the application server .

Next assume that the secondary CT enters a given physical proximity e.g. 10 meters 40 meters 3 feet etc. of the primary CT and that the secondary CT establishes a local wireless connection with the primary CT A. For example the local wireless connection can correspond to a personal area network PAN including the secondary and primary CTs connected via a wireless Bluetooth connection. In another example the secondary CT may enter the given physical proximity of the primary CT when the user carrying the secondary CT approaches the primary CT. In another example the secondary CT may enter the given physical proximity of the primary CT when the user carrying the secondary CT turns on or powers up the secondary CT within the given physical proximity of the primary CT or alternatively when the user carrying the secondary CT turns on or powers up the primary CT while carrying an already powered up secondary CT. The connection set up of A can be configured to occur automatically when the secondary CT detects or discovers the primary CT or alternatively when the primary CT detects or discovers the secondary CT. Accordingly the initiation of the connection set up of A can be either secondary CT initiated or primary CT initiated.

Further the local wireless connection need not be a direct wireless connection between the primary and secondary CTs. For example the primary and secondary CTs can correspond to two slave Bluetooth devices in a piconet whereby each of the primary and secondary CTs connects to the master Bluetooth device of the piconet. In another example the primary and secondary CTs can connect to a wireless router such that the local wireless connection is mediated by the router. In other words the local wireless connection does not necessarily correspond to a direct wireless connection so long as the local wireless connection is local such that geographical proximity can be presumed for the primary and secondary CTs when connected.

After the secondary CT completes set up of the local wireless connection to the primary CT the client application is notified that that the local wireless connection and the client application prompts the user to indicate whether the client application session should be transitioned to the primary CT A. The prompt of A may be an audio alert e.g. a beep etc. a visual message e.g. a text message of Primary Computer Available for Session etc. or some other type of user message.

The client application evaluates user feedback in response to the prompt of A to determine whether to transition the client application session from the secondary CT to the primary CT in A. While not shown in if the user feedback indicates the user wishes to continue the client application session via the client application on the secondary CT the client application session continues on the secondary CT and the session is not set up on or transitioned to the primary CT. Alternatively if the user feedback indicates the user wishes to transition the client application session to a client application on the primary CT the client application of the secondary CT sends a message over the local wireless connection to the primary CT to initiate set up of the client application session on the primary CT A. For example the message of A can correspond to an instruction to load the client application on the primary CT.

In an alternative example A and A can be omitted entirely in which case the secondary CT will automatically assume that the user wishes to transition to the primary CT upon detection of the local wireless connection. In an example automatically transitioning the client application session from the secondary CT to the primary CT can be beneficial in reducing cellular traffic in the event that the secondary CT is connected to the application server via a cellular base station and the primary CT is connected to the application server via a broadband Internet connection.

Responsive to the message from A the primary CT loads or launches the client application A. As mentioned above the client application configured for execution on the secondary CT need not be the same as the client application configured for execution on the primary CT. In an example the client application configured for execution on the primary CT can correspond to a full featured version of the client application whereas the client application configured for execution on the secondary CT can correspond to a reduced feature version or mobile version of the client application. For example in the context of an IM client application the client application configured for execution on the secondary CT can correspond to a mobile IM client. The client application session may thereby differ somewhat for the user when interacting with the different versions of the client applications on the primary and secondary CTs.

After loading the client application in A the client application of the primary CT registers with the application server that will be supporting the client application session for the user over the primary CT A. In an example if the primary CT corresponds to a desktop computer the registration of A can include sending a message to the application server via an Internet connection. After registering with the application server at the primary CT the user continues to engage via the client application in the client application session that is arbitrated by the application server over the primary CT A.

In a further example it is possible that old session information can be conveyed to the primary CT related to the history of the client application session from when the session was conducted via the secondary CT. For example if the client application session is an IM session the IM messages or conversations that occurred during A can be conveyed to the primary CT so that the user may scroll back to earlier IM messages conversations while using the primary CT. In this case the session history information can either be received at the primary CT from the secondary CT in A or alternatively from the application server during or after the primary CT s registration in A.

After the primary CT successfully sets up the client application session via its own client application in A the application server notifies the secondary CT that the client application session has transitioned to the primary CT A. The secondary CT then deregisters from the current session with the application server A. After the de registration of A the secondary CT may shut down or close the client application.

In an alternative embodiment the secondary CT and primary CT can be configured for concurrent session participation such that the de registration step of A is omitted. In this case both the primary and secondary CTs are registered with the application server for the client application session after A. Thus if the client application session is an IM session IM sessions intended for the user are sent by the application server to the primary and secondary CTs when both CTs are registered IMs sent from the secondary CT to a target CT would be conveyed to the primary CT so that the IM conservation displayed on the primary CT was up to date and so on.

In establishing the local wireless connection between the secondary and primary CTs triggers the secondary CT to prompt the user for feedback relating to whether the client application session should be transitioned to the primary CT. By contrast in the embodiment of the user prompt is provided via the primary CT instead of the secondary CT. Accordingly the establishment of the local wireless connection between the secondary and primary CTs triggers the primary CT to load the client application B after which the client application prompts the user to indicate whether the client application session should be transitioned from the secondary CT to the primary CT B. Similar to A of the prompt of B may be an audio alert e.g. a beep etc. a visual message e.g. a text message of Primary Computer Available for Session etc. or some other type of user message. As will be appreciated the prompt of B can occur before the client application of the primary CT registers with the application server because it is possible the user will want to continue the client application session on the secondary CT.

The client application of the primary CT evaluates user feedback in response to the prompt of B to determine whether to transition the client application session from the secondary CT to the primary CT in B. While not shown in if the user feedback indicates the user wishes to continue the client application session via the client application on the secondary CT the client application session continues on the secondary CT and is not set up on the primary CT. In this case while not shown in the primary CT would simply shut down the client application loaded in B.

Alternatively if the user feedback indicates the user wishes to transition the client application session to a client application on the primary CT the client application of the primary CT registers with the application server that will be supporting the client application session for the user over the primary CT B. After registering with the application server at the primary CT the user continues to engage via the client application in the client application session that is arbitrated by the application server over the primary CT B.

As discussed with respect to in a further example it is possible that old session information can be conveyed to the primary CT related to the history of the client application session from when the session was conducted via the secondary CT. For example if the client application session is an IM session the IM messages or conversations that occurred during B can be conveyed to the primary CT so that the user may scroll back to earlier IM messages conversations while using the primary CT. In this case the session history information can either be received from the application server during or after the primary CT s registration in B or received at the primary CT from the secondary CT during or after the de registration of B discussed below . Session history information may be more valuable for certain type of applications such as a gaming application where the current gaming activity relies on the past activity gaming context current score etc .

After the primary CT successfully sets up the client application session via its own client application in B and B the application server notifies the secondary AT that the current session has transitioned to the primary CT B. At this point the secondary CT can de register from the application server such that the client application session continues thereafter only on the primary CT B. While the notification of B arrives from the application server in the de registration of B may be triggered by a message from the primary CT in another embodiment of the invention. After the de registration of B the secondary CT may shut down or closes the client application.

While the embodiments of are directed to a client application session transitioning from the secondary CT to the primary CT the embodiments of are directed to a client application session transitioning from the primary CT to the secondary CT. For example assuming the primary CT corresponds to a desktop or laptop computer and the secondary CT corresponds to a mobile phone the user can initiate a client application session on the primary CT to make use of its UI environment. Later the user decides to travel to a destination remote from the primary CT. The user carries the secondary CT during this travel and thereby continues the client application session over the secondary CT at least until returning back to the primary CT. In this case as discussed below with respect to the disconnection of the local wireless connection between the primary and secondary CTs can be configured to trigger the transition of the client application session from the primary CT to the secondary CT.

Further while illustrates a prompt at A upon establishment of the LWC in A and illustrates a prompt at B after establishment of the LWC in B and loading of the primary CT s client application in B in another embodiment of the invention a hybrid approach can be adopted whereby both the secondary CT can perform the prompt as in and the primary CT can also perform the prompt e.g. as in . In context of in an example the hybrid approach could be achieved by moving A and A after B of . Then if the user responded via the secondary CT instead of the primary CT the secondary CT could signal the primary CT to perform the transition. Thus the user could respond to either prompt in the hybrid approach to trigger the transition between the secondary CT and the primary CT with blocks B and onwards being performed in response to the user s feedback to the prompt from either CT.

Next in A the primary CT loads a client application in order to initiate a client application session with the application server . In an example the client application can be loaded in A responsive to a request by a request from a user to load the client application. After loading the client application in A the client application of the primary CT registers with the application server that will be supporting the client application session for the user A e.g. as in A of or B of . After registering with the application server the user engages via the client application in a client application session that is arbitrated by the application server A. For example if the client application session is an IM session the client application at the primary CT can send and or receive IMs to and or from other IM session participants.

Next assume that the secondary CT exits a given physical proximity of the primary CT and that the local wireless connection between the primary CT and secondary CT is thereby disconnected A. For example the user may walk away from the primary CT while carrying the secondary CT which causes the local wireless connection to drop out due to the gap caused by the travel of the user.

Upon detecting that the local wireless connection between the primary CT and secondary CT has disconnected the secondary CT assumes that the user is no longer in proximity of the primary CT and thereby the secondary CT loads the client application A after which the client application of the secondary CT prompts the user to indicate whether the client application session should set up on the secondary CT A.

The client application evaluates user feedback in response to the prompt of A to determine whether to set up the client application session at the secondary CT in A. While not shown in if the user feedback indicates the user does not wish to set up the client application session on the secondary CT then the secondary CT simply shuts down the client application and does not initiate the client application session at the secondary CT. Alternatively if the user feedback indicates the user wishes to set up the client application session at the secondary CT the process advances to A. In an alternative example A and A can be omitted entirely in which case the secondary CT will automatically assume that the user wishes to set up the client application session whenever the secondary CT detects the local wireless connection to the primary CT to be disconnected.

Referring to in A the client application of the secondary CT registers with the application server that will be supporting the client application session for the user over the primary CT. After registering with the application server at the secondary CT the user continues to engage via the client application in the client application session that is arbitrated by the application server over the secondary CT A.

Once the secondary CT registers with the application server the application server notifies the primary CT that the session has transitioned to the secondary CT A. The client application of the primary CT then de registers from the client application session with the application server A after which the client application may optionally be shut down or closed by the primary CT. In an example the de registration of A can occur after a threshold time period from the disconnection of A expires and need not occur instantly upon the notification from the application server in A. In another example the client application session can simply be maintained by the client application at the primary CT such that the de registration of A and optional shut down of the client application on the secondary CT need not be performed in other embodiments of the invention.

In a further example it is possible that old session information can be conveyed to the secondary CT related to the history of the client application session from when the session was conducted via the primary CT. For example if the client application session is an IM session the IM messages or conversations that occurred during A can be conveyed to the secondary CT so that the user may scroll back to earlier IM messages conversations while using the primary CT. In this case the session history information can either be received from the application server during or after the secondary CT s registration in A or received at the secondary CT from the primary CT before the disconnection of the local wireless connection in A e.g. via event triggered and or periodic messages from the primary CT to the secondary CT while the two CTs are connected .

In the embodiment of the primary CT is configured to inform the secondary CT with regard to when the primary CT is executing the client application while the local wireless connection between the primary and secondary CTs is active. In this case because the local wireless connection between the secondary and primary CTs is active B and the client application is loaded or launched by the primary CT B the primary CT sends a notification to the secondary CT over the local wireless connection to inform that secondary CT that the primary CT is running the client application B. Next B through B correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

In upon detecting that the local wireless connection between the primary CT and secondary CT has disconnected the secondary CT simply loaded the client application A and then prompted the user with regard to whether to establish the client application session via the secondary CT A . However in the secondary CT does not necessarily have special knowledge related to the client application s execution on the primary CT. Instead A and A are simply triggered with the local wireless connection between the secondary and primary CTs is broken.

In the embodiment of upon detecting that the local wireless connection between the primary CT and secondary CT has disconnected the secondary CT determines whether the secondary CT had been notified that the primary CT was executing the client application B. For example upon receipt of the client application notification from the primary CT in B the secondary CT can set a given register to a state that indicates the primary CT to be executing the client application and the given register can then be checked upon disconnection of the local wireless connection in B.

If the secondary CT determines that the primary CT was executing the client application before the disconnection or termination of the local wireless connection between the secondary and primary CTs in B then the process advances to A of whereby the client application session is set up on the secondary CT. Otherwise if the secondary CT determines that the primary CT was not executing the client application before the disconnection or termination of the local wireless connection between the secondary and primary CTs in B then the secondary CT does not load the client application B. Accordingly demonstrates that the secondary CT can load the client application and prompt the user for permission to set up the client application session selectively based on whether the user was previously engaged in the session with the primary CT which can improve the user experience with the client application by refraining from badgering the user when the user does not wish to engage in a session.

While many of the examples provided above with respect to the embodiments have been given with respect to IM sessions and IM client applications it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention can be directed to other types of client applications and client application sessions including but not limited to email gaming etc. Further while above described embodiments have generally been directed to transitions from one CT to another CT for hosting a client application session it will be appreciated that the old CT hosting the session need not necessarily drop out when the session is established with the new CT. Thus the same session can be hosted concurrently on multiple CTs in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further it will be appreciated that the secondary CT is likely to come across many potential local wireless connection opportunities with different CTs while being carried or moved by the user throughout a particular environment. For example in an office environment numerous computers and other wireless devices may advertise themselves wirelessly to the secondary CT. In this case the triggering of the client application at the secondary CT and the other processes described in the embodiments above may be conditioned upon specific primary CTs and not any CT that the secondary CT happens to discover. For example the user of the secondary CT may manually instruct the secondary CT with regard to which primary CTs the user desires to achieve seamless transitions for client application sessions of the client application. Accordingly the evaluation of whether the secondary CT is authorized to trigger client application loading and or transition for a particular target CT can occur at the secondary CT upon establishment of a local wireless connection with the target CT.

While above described embodiments have been described with respect to server arbitrated client application sessions i.e. arbitrated by the application server other embodiments can be directed to local client application sessions that are not necessarily arbitrated by the application server . For example assume that a user is operating his her primary CT has a LWC to the secondary CT and is playing a game that does not require server arbitration e.g. Solitaire Tetris etc. . Later the user walks away from the primary CT and down the hall out of LWC range with his her secondary CT. In this embodiment the game state could be conveyed to the user s secondary CT from the primary CT i.e. prior to the LWC disconnection and the mobile version of the game could be loaded with the same game state on the secondary CT e.g. the same block arrangements from a Tetris game on the primary CT could be loaded on the mobile Tetris application on the secondary CT . As will be appreciated yet another embodiment could be implemented where the LWC is established and or when the client application session can transition from the secondary CT to the primary CT. In these alternative embodiments interactions between the primary and secondary CTs and the application server e.g. such as registrations and or de registrations to from the application server as shown in can be omitted.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. communication terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

