---

title: Systems and methods for conducting internet content usage experiments
abstract: A system and method for efficiently executing a plurality of live parallel Internet content usage experiments using a large pool of randomly selected participating users (separated into control and test groups) while minimally disturbing offered content is provided. In an illustrative implementation, a content provider communicates the parameters for a content usage experiment to a content server. A complimentary test subject verification script operates on the content server that determines which client computing devices are to be included in the experiment group. In operation, a participating client computing device requests content from the content provider's server. The content provider's server executes the test subject verification script to determine if the client computing device is to be considered as a test subject. The content usage of the experiment content and non-experiment content is tracked and compared to each other to determine if the experiment content impacted content usage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08255458&OS=08255458&RS=08255458
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08255458
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100521
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 968 935 entitled Systems And Methods For Conducting Internet Content Usage Experiments filed on Jan. 3 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 741 362 entitled Systems and Methods for Conducting Internet Content Usage Experiments filed on Dec. 20 2000 the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to the field of content experiments. Particularly the present invention is directed to the creation and analysis of a plurality of parallel content experiments and more particularly to systems and methods that for efficiently executing a plurality of live parallel content usage experiments using a large pool of randomly selected participating users while minimally disturbing offered content.

The Internet has changed the face of information technologies and electronic communications. Today people turn to the Internet to obtain a variety of information ranging from the latest news headlines to stock quotes. As the Internet has grown so too has the number of content providers offering Internet based content. Participating Internet users now have a myriad of choices when seeking particular content. As such content providers are often cast in the role of swami trying to predict user preferences for content in an effort to increase market share and expand their target audience.

In an effort to better understand user content preference content providers have developed and implemented a number of systems and methods to track content usage. The collected content usage information is subsequently analyzed to determine the efficacy of the offered content. As such content usage information is a very important metric used by content providers to assess their content offerings. In the Internet realm competing content providers rely on content usage data to determine which content is most effective i.e. receives most attention and most desirable to participating users.

A popular method of tracking content usage is to create test groups and offer differing content to different test groups. This method is usually performed in a controlled setting having test groups of 20 to 30 participating users. The method relies on an assumption that the tested sample is representative of an average participating user s content usage. In fact groups of 20 to 30 participants is drastically smaller than the number of actual Internet users. As such drastically irrelevant results may result. Further this method requires content providers to expend extensive resources to recruit test groups and in some situations to provide testing facilities and equipment. Also this method disrupts the flow of content delivery. Given such costs content providers tend to perform these experiments one at a time.

Internet content usage may also be tracked using automated content usage computing applications and scripts e.g. Web Log Analyzer . For example the Web log analyzer automates content usage tracking by cooperating with Web server content applications to maintain a list of accessed content known as a Web log. The Web log analyzer parses the Web log using a number of criteria to create Web log reports. These reports generally indicate how many participating users accessed particular offered content. Although such information may be useful in ascertaining which content is popular among participating users it provides little insight as to why such content was popular. In addition it is difficult to ascertain how many unique participating users accessed particular offered content.

From the foregoing it can be appreciated that there exists a need for a system and methods that allow content providers the ability to efficiently execute a plurality of live Internet content usage experiments that randomly select subjects from all participating content users while minimally disturbing offered content. By having a system and methods that allow Internet content providers to easily implement live parallel Internet content usage tests content providers are better positioned to determine the efficacy of offered content and draw meaningful inferences as to why certain content is more effective than other content.

The present invention is directed to a system and methods that allow Internet content providers to efficiently execute a plurality of live parallel Internet content usage experiments using a large pool of randomly selected participating users separated into control and test groups while minimally disturbing the flow of offered content. The system and methods provide an experiment harness that affords convenient and flexible control over experiment parameters such as test group segregation and a simple control API for implementing experiments within a content provider s server. The harness supports any kind of experiment that involves segregating users into a test group and a control group each of which receives a different variation of content for the duration of the experiment. The results of the experiment e.g. content usage logs can be analyzed to compare the behavior of the test group to that the control group.

In an illustrative implementation the invention comprises a server side object and a configuration file. Content providers populate configuration file parameters that define the scope of a given experiment. These parameters include the name of the experiment the duration of the experiment a list of the Web sites that are to execute the experiment e.g. MSN.COM alone or MSN.COM CA.MSN.COM etc and hashing and range parameters used to select users for the experiment. The server side object e.g. script or application resides on the content provider s server and is called each time content is requested from the content provider s server by a participating user. The object is used to determine if the participating user is to be included as a member of test group for an experiment.

When content is requested by a participating user the server side object performs a calculation to determine if the participating user is to be included in an experiment. The calculation uses a hashing algorithm that employs the hashing parameter provided in the configuration file in combination with an assigned unique identifier of the requesting participating party. This calculation produces an integer and a check is made to see if the integer falls within a range specified by any of the Range parameters of the experiment configuration files. If this check is positive the user is included in the appropriate experiment. A check is then made to determine if the experiment is still live. If the experiment is still live the participating user is subjected to experiment conditions and the participating user s behavior logged. To obtain general content usage information logging occurs whether or not the user is part of the experiment.

Upon the lapse of the experiment the results of the experiment are collected and analyzed. This can be accomplished by parsing participating users behavior logs to separate the logged behavior of the test group from a control group. A determination may then be made to see if the experiment conditions had any affect on participating user s behavior.

In an exemplary implementation the parallel content experiment system and methods are employed in the MSN Web site to determine the efficacy of offered content in an effort to provider more relevant content.

The term Internet is an abbreviation for Internetwork and refers commonly to the collection of networks and gateways that utilize the TCP IP suite of protocols which are well known in the art of computer networking TCP IP is an acronym for Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol a software protocol developed by the Department of Defense for communication between computers. The Internet can be described as a system of geographically distributed remote computer networks interconnected by computers executing networking protocols that allow users to interact and share information over the networks. Because of such wide spread information sharing remote networks such as the Internet have thus far generally evolved into an open system for which developers can design software applications for performing specialized operations or services essentially without restriction.

Electronic information transferred between data processing networks is usually presented in hypertext a metaphor for presenting information in a manner in which text images sounds and actions become linked together in a complex non sequential web of associations that permit the user to browse or navigate through related topics regardless of the presented order of the topics. These links are often established by both the author of a hypertext document and by the user depending on the intent of the hypertext document. For example traveling among links to the word iron in an article displayed within a graphical user interface in a data processing system might lead the user to the periodic table of the chemical elements i.e. linked by the word iron or to a reference to the use of iron in weapons in Europe in the Dark Ages. The term hypertext was coined in the 1960s to describe documents as presented by a computer that express the nonlinear structure of ideas as opposed to the linear format of books film and speech.

The term hypermedia on the other hand more recently introduced is nearly synonymous with hypertext but focuses on the non textual components of hypertext such as animation recorded sound and video. Hypermedia is the integration of graphics sound video or any combination thereof into a primarily associative system of information storage and retrieval. Hypermedia as well as hypertext especially in an interactive format where choices are controlled by the user is structured around the idea of offering a working and learning environment that parallels human thinking that is an environment that allows the user to make associations between topics rather than move sequentially from one to the next as in an alphabetic list. Hypermedia as well as hypertext topics are thus linked in a manner that allows the user to jump from one subject to other related subjects during a search for information. Hyper link information is contained within hypermedia and hypertext documents which allow a user to move back to original or referring network sites by the mere click i.e. with a mouse or other pointing device of the hyper linked topic.

A typical networked system that utilizes hypertext and hypermedia conventions follows a client server architecture. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer i.e. a server .

A request by a user for news can be sent by a client application program to a server. A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote network such as the Internet. The server scans and searches for raw e.g. unprocessed information sources e.g. newswire feeds or newsgroups . Based upon such requests by the user the server presents filtered electronic information as server responses to the client process. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server.

Client and server communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or the Wireless Application Protocol WAP . The World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web includes those servers adhering to this standard i.e. HTTP and WAP which are accessible to clients via a computer or data processing system network address such as a Universal Resource Locator URL . The network address can be referred to as a Universal Resource Locator address. For example communication can be provided over a communications medium. In particular the client and server may be coupled to one another via Serial Line Internet Protocol SLIP or TCP IP connections for high capacity communication. Active within the client is a first process known as a browser which establishes the connection with the server and presents information to the user. The server itself executes corresponding server software which presents information to the client in the form of HTTP responses. The HTTP responses correspond to web pages constructed from a Hypertext Markup Language HTML Hand held Device Markup Language HDML Extensible Markup Language XML or other server generated data. Each web page can also be referred to simply as a page. 

The client and server typically display browsers and other remote network data for a user via a graphical user interface. A graphical user interface is a type of display format that enables a user to choose commands start programs and see lists of files and other options by pointing to pictorial representations icons and lists of menu items on the screen. Choices can be activated generally either with a keyboard or a mouse. Internet services are typically accessed by specifying a unique network address i.e. Universal Resource Locator . The Universal Resource Locator address has two basic components the protocol to be used and the object pathname. For example the Universal Resource Locator address http www.uspto.gov i.e. home page for the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office specifies a hypertext transfer protocol http and a pathname of the server www.uspto.gov . The server name is associated with a unique numeric value TCP IP address .

The immense popularity of the Internet among participating users has driven Internet content providers to deliver more desirable and relevant content to retain existing users and attract new users. Typically content providers rely on content usage logs to determine the efficacy of particular content. However these logs provide little insight as to possibly why particular content may have been chosen. Accordingly content providers have developed certain tests and experiments to better understand the impact of content on participating users. For example content providers employ test labs that register test subjects according to pre determined criteria e.g. gender age income etc. to participate in controlled content usage experiments. In this scenario a group of 25 to 100 test subjects may be offered the same content in differing formats. Their content usage is then tracked and analyzed to determine the most effective content format. However this undertaking is cumbersome costly and provides suspect results. For these reasons Internet content providers will perform one content usage experiment at a time yielding what amounts to be a lengthy content update cycle.

The present invention was developed to provide content providers the ability to create manage and execute a plurality of live content usage experiments that employ randomly selected subjects from a set of all participating content users and minimally disturb offered content. With this ability content providers are given a tool to better understand in real time why particular content is being chosen. Such information may be used to develop more relevant content that is in tune with users interests and proclivities.

In an illustrative implementation the content usage experiment system may be realized as a computing application or computing elements employed by an Internet content service to execute a plurality of live content usage experiments. The computing application and computing elements may be employed and or incorporated into existing Internet content such to provide experiment content to randomly selected test subjects and to compare the content usage of the experiment content by the test subjects to content usage of non experiment content by non test subjects. Using this comparison information content providers are better situated to determine if the changes in the experiment content effected content usage e.g. if the change in font of a particular headline link caused any change in the usage of the headline link .

The above scenario may be realized by the following. Experiment content may be created and stored in an Internet content provider s server. An experiment may then be defined for the created content through the population of experiment parameters. These parameters are processed by the content usage experiment system to create and execute the content usage experiment. These parameters may include the duration of the experiment the Internet sites that will be part of the experiment i.e. an Internet service may have more than one site associated with it e.g. MSN.COM may have MSN.COM MSN.CO.JP MSN.CO.UK etc. and the range of the test subjects. Upon the request of content by a participating user the participating user is processed by content usage experiment system to determine if he she is within the range of test subjects to receive experiment content for any of the created experiments. If the user qualifies as a test subject a further check is performed to ensure that the experiment for which he she has qualified is still active. If active the qualified participating user is offered experiment content from the experiment for which he she has qualified. The user s content usage is tracked and logged for future analysis. In an effort to obtain content usage information the user s content usage is tracked whether or not they are part of the group participating in the experiment. By having experiment content usage and general content usage a determination of the efficacy of the experiment content may be made. Once the experiment duration has elapsed the content usage for the experiment is analyzed to determine the efficacy of the experiment content.

As will be described below with respect to the present invention is directed to a system and methods that allow content providers to efficiently execute a plurality of live Internet content usage experiments. In accordance with an illustrative implementation thereof the present invention comprises a system and method to provide Internet content providers with a computing application and computing elements to realize these experiments.

In one embodiment described more fully hereinafter the methods and system of the present invention may be implemented as part of a computer network such as the Internet having a plurality of server computers representing Internet content providers hosting content such as Internet domains. Further a plurality of users i.e. client computers are connected to the computer network through computer hardware and software i.e. Web browsers such that the user may request transmit and receive Internet content. Although the depicted embodiment provides an Internet based computing application to execute a plurality of live Internet content usage experiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive concepts described herein extend to a variety computing systems having a variety of configurations executing content usage experiments.

The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through an non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

As noted the computer described above can be deployed as part of a computer network. In general the above description applies to both server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment. illustrates an exemplary network environment with a server in communication with client computers via a network in which the present invention may be employed. As shown in a number of servers etc. are interconnected via a communications network which may be a LAN WAN intranet or the Internet with a number of client computers or computing devices such as mobile phone and personal digital assistant . In a network environment in which the communications network is the Internet for example the servers can be Web servers with which the clients communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or wireless application protocol WAP . Each client computer can be equipped with browser to gain access to the servers . Similarly personal digital assistant can be equipped with browser and mobile phone can be equipped with browser to display and receive various data.

Thus the present invention can be utilized in a computer network environment having client computing devices for accessing and interacting with the network and a server computer for interacting with client computers. However the systems and methods for providing the electronic registration and maintenance of business directory listings and advertisements of the present invention can be implemented with a variety of network based architectures and thus should not be limited to the example shown. The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to a presently illustrative implementation.

In operation a member of requesting computing devices group such as client computer mobile phone or personal digital assistant may transmit a request for content to content system over communications network . In turn content application operating on content server may process the request to determine if the requesting user is to be included in any of the active content usage experiments. Content application utilizes ASP script server side object and experiment configuration files to determine whether the requestor is to be offered experiment content from experiment content data store or regular content from regular content data store . The content usage of either content is then tracked by content application and stored on content usage store .

In an illustrative implementation when a request for content is received by content application content application executes ASP script which calls upon side object to process the request. Included in the request for content is a unique identification tag e.g. GUID used to identify the client computing device e.g. client computer that is making the content request. Content application passes the unique identification tag to server side object to determine if the client computing device is to receive experiment data from any of the active content usage experiments. The processing performed by server side object includes the execution of a hashing function that employs the experiment configuration parameter hash divisor. The use of the hashing function ensures a consistent random sample across multiple content requests and subsequent content usage. In the implementation described the GUID is random and the hash divisor is used to slot the GUID into either a test or control bucket. A GUID may be slotted into the same bucket for the entire duration of the experiment. As such this ensures a consistent user experience and allows for easier analysis of collected content usage information.

The hashing function produces an integer which is compared by server side object with the test subject range parameter of experiment configuration files . If the integer falls within any of the experiment test subject ranges of experiment configuration files experiment content associated with the determined range from experiment content data store is communicated by content application to the requesting client computing device over communications network . If the alternative proves to be true i.e. the calculated integer is not within any defined test subject ranges regular content from regular content data store is communicated by content application to the requesting client computing device over communications network . The content usage of the offered content is tracked and stored by content application on content usage store . The content usage information is analyzed to determine the efficacy of the experiment content compared to the efficacy of regular content.

In a preferred implementation the content usage experiment system is incorporated as part of the MSN.COM Internet site. In this implementation content server provides MSN.COM or MSN.COM related content. Further content application comprises a Web daemon that supports and executes ASP scripts and server side objects. In addition experiment configuration files are XML type files that are adaptable and updateable to accommodate content usage experiment changes.

Alternatively if the check at block proves that the requested content is not part of any experiment processing proceeds to block where regular non experiment content is rendered to the participating user. Processing then proceeds to block and therefrom. Similarly if the check at block proves the experiment to which the requested content is associated is no longer active processing proceeds to block and therefrom. A similar occurrence takes place if the check at block proves that the participating user is not within the experiment s parameters processing proceeds to block and therefrom.

If at block the check to determine if content remains to be rendered yields that there is no additional content the content is communicated to the client computing device at block . A check is then performed to determine if there was content usage at block . If there is content usage content usage information is tracked and stored at block before processing terminates at block .

In sum the present invention provides a system and process for providing systems and methods for that allow content providers to efficiently execute a plurality of live parallel Internet content usage experiments that use a large pool of randomly selected participating users separated into control and test groups and minimally disturbs the flow of offered content. It is understood however that the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions. There is no intention to limit the invention to the specific constructions described herein. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the scope and spirit of the invention.

It should also be noted that the present invention may be implemented in a variety of computer systems. The various techniques described herein may be implemented in hardware or software or a combination of both. Preferably the techniques are implemented in computer programs executing on programmable computers that each include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. Program code is applied to data entered using the input device to perform the functions described above and to generate output information. The output information is applied to one or more output devices. Each program is preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the programs can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Each such computer program is preferably stored on a storage medium or device e.g. ROM or magnetic disk that is readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer for configuring and operating the computer when the storage medium or device is read by the computer to perform the procedures described above. The system may also be considered to be implemented as a computer readable storage medium configured with a computer program where the storage medium so configured causes a computer to operate in a specific and predefined manner. Further the storage elements of the exemplary computing applications may be relational or sequential flat file type computing databases that are capable of storing data in various combinations and configurations.

Although exemplary embodiments of the invention has been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many additional modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the invention. Accordingly these and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

