---

title: Method, system and apparatus for propagating data change notifications
abstract: A system, method and apparatus for propagating data change notifications are provided. The system comprises a computing device in communication with an intermediation server via a network, the intermediation server in communication with an originating content server. A data change notification is received at the computing device from the intermediation server, the data change notification comprising an indication that a change has occurred to data at the originating content server. The data change notification is stored in a destination location at the computing device. The destination location is checked for data change notifications; and, when the data change notification is found, an indicator is controlled to indicate that a change has occurred to the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799349&OS=08799349&RS=08799349
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08799349
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100218
---
The specification relates generally to computing device and specifically to a method system and apparatus for propagating data change notifications to a computing device.

Computing devices are increasingly used to access remote data that can change under suitable conditions. However the technologies used to track changes of remote data are currently limited.

A first aspect of the specification provides a method for propagating data change notifications the method implementable at a computing device in communication with an intermediation server via a network. The method comprises receiving a data change notification from the intermediation server the data change notification comprising an indication that a change has occurred to data at an originating content server. The method further comprises storing the data change notification in a destination location at the computing device. The method further comprises checking the destination location for the data change notification and when the data change notification is found controlling an indicator to indicate that a change has occurred to the data.

The destination location can comprise at least one of a location in a memory device a cache and a location in a memory structure.

Checking the destination location for the data change notifications can occur via at least one of an application at the computing device and a java applet at the computing device.

Checking the destination location for the data change notifications can occur via an embedded application embedded in a data structure for tracking the data. The indicator can comprise a portion of the data structure such that only the portion is updated when the data change notification is found. The portion of the data structure can be displayed in a representation of the data structure at a display device associated with the computing device. The data structure can comprise HTML data the embedded application can comprise a java applet embedded in the HTML data and the indicator can comprise an icon displayed within the HTML data such that only the indicator within the HTML data is updated rather than all of the HTML data.

The data change notification can further comprise at least a portion of the data. The method can further comprise causing a link to the least a portion of the data at the computing device to retrieve the least a portion of the data from the destination location rather than the originating content server when the link is actuated.

The indicator can comprise at least one of a visual indicator an aural indicator a mechanical indicator a vibrating indicator an LED light emitting diode a speaker and a representation of the indicator at a display device associated with the computing device.

A second aspect of the specification provides a computing device for propagating data change notifications. The computing device comprises a processing unit interconnected with a memory device and a communication interface the communication interface for communicating with an intermediation server via a network. The processing unit is enabled to receive a data change notification from the intermediation server the data change notification comprising an indication that a change has occurred to data at an originating content server store the data change notification in a destination location at the computing device check the destination location for the data change notifications and when the data change notification is found control an indicator to indicate that a change has occurred to the data.

The destination location can comprise at least one of a location in the memory device a cache and a location in a memory structure.

The destination location can be checked for the data change notifications via at least one of an application and a java applet.

The destination location can be checked for the data change notifications via an embedded application embedded in a data structure for tracking the data. The indicator can comprise a portion of the data structure such that only the portion is updated when the data change notification is found. The portion of the data structure is displayed in a representation of the data structure at a display device associated with the computing device. The data structure can comprise HTML data the embedded application can comprise a java applet embedded in the HTML data and the indicator can comprise an icon displayed within the HTML data such that only the indicator within the HTML data is updated rather than all of the HTML data.

The data change notification further can comprise at least a portion of the data. The processing unit can be further enabled to cause a link to the least a portion of the data at the computing device to retrieve the least a portion of the data from the destination location rather than the originating content server.

The processing unit can be further enabled to control the indicator to expire after a given time period.

The indicator can comprise at least one of a visual indicator an aural indicator a mechanical indicator a vibrating indicator an LED light emitting diode a speaker and a representation of the indicator at a display device associated with the computing device.

A third aspect of the specification provides a method for propagating data change notifications to a computing device from an intermediation server the method implementable at the intermediation server. The method comprises determining that data at an originating content server has changed and transmitting a data change notification to the computing device the data change notification comprising an indication that a change has occurred to the data the data changed notification for storage at a destination location at the computing device such that when the data change notification is found by an application at the computing device the computing device is triggered to control an indicator to indicate that a change has occurred to the data.

Determining that the data stored remote from the computing device has changed can comprise at least one of receiving at the intermediation server a notification that the data has changed from the originating content server and requesting the data at least twice from the originating content server and determining that the data has changed between requests.

A fourth aspect of the specification provides an intermediation server for propagating data change notifications to a computing device. The intermediation server comprises a processing unit interconnected with a communication interface for communicating with the computing device and an originating content server. The processing unit is enabled to determine that data at the originating content server has changed and transmit a data change notification to the computing device the data change notification comprising an indication that a change has occurred to the data the data changed notification for storage at a destination location at the computing device such that when the data change notification is found by an application at the computing device the computing device is triggered to control an indicator to indicate that a change has occurred to the data.

To determine that the data stored remote from the computing device has changed the processing unit can be further enabled to at least one of receive a notification that the data has changed from the originating content server and request the data at least twice from the originating content server and determine that the data has changed between requests.

A fifth aspect of the specification provides a system for propagating data change notifications. The system comprises a computing device in communication with an intermediation server the intermediation server in communication with an originating content server. The computing device is enabled to receive a data change notification from the intermediation server the data change notification comprising an indication that a change has occurred to data at the originating content server store the data change notification in a destination location at the computing device check the destination location for the data change notifications and when the data change notification is found control an indicator to indicate that a change has occurred to the data. The intermediation server is enabled to determine that the data at the originating content server has changed and transmit the data change notification to the computing device.

A sixth aspect of the specification provides a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method for propagating data change notifications the method implementable at a computing device in communication with an intermediation server via a network. The method comprises receiving a data change notification from the intermediation server the data change notification comprising an indication that a change has occurred to data at an originating content server storing the data change notification in a destination location at the computing device checking the destination location for the data change notifications and when the data change notification is found controlling an indicator to indicate that a change has occurred to the data.

A seventh aspect of the specification provides a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method for propagating data change notifications to a computing device from an intermediation server the method implementable at the intermediation server. The method comprises determining that data at an originating content server has changed and transmitting a data change notification to the computing device the data change notification comprising an indication that a change has occurred to the data the data changed notification for storage at a destination location at the computing device such that when the data change notification is found by an application at the computing device the computing device is triggered to control an indicator to indicate that a change has occurred to the data.

Referring now to a system for propagating data change notifications is indicated generally at . In a present embodiment system comprises a portable electronic device at least one intermediation server and at least one push server which can be located behind a firewall . A wireless base station interconnects electronic device and push server . A backhaul link interconnects base station with push server . At least one bearer path typically wireless can be used to interconnect base station with electronic device . In a present exemplary embodiment bearer path can be based on one or more of Global System for Mobile communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE the Third generation mobile communication system G Evolution Data Optimized EVDO Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11 WiFi or other wireless protocols. In variations path can be wired.

Push server is also connected to a network via another backhaul link . Network can be any type of network that can deliver content to device . In a present embodiment network is the Internet and connects to intermediation server via a backhaul link . Intermediation server connects to an originating content server by another backhaul link .

Referring now to electronic device can be any type of computing device that can be used in a self contained manner and to interact with content available over network . Interaction includes displaying of information on electronic device as well as to receive input at electronic device that can in turn be sent back over network . It should be emphasized that the structure in is purely exemplary and contemplates a device that can be used for both wireless voice e.g. telephony and wireless data e.g. email web browsing text communications. In a present embodiment electronic device is a portable electronic device with the combined functionality of a personal digital assistant a cell phone and an email paging device. Although variants on device can include a palm top computer or laptop computer with a reduced screen such as an ASUS EEE from ASUSTek Computer Inc. of Taiwan. In yet further embodiments variants on device can include a personal computer or a laptop computer . Many known cellular telephone models or variants thereof are suitable for the present embodiment.

Device thus includes a plurality of input devices which in a present embodiment includes a keyboard a pointing device and a microphone . Pointing device can be implemented as a track wheel trackball or the like. Other input devices such as a touch screen are also contemplated. Input from keyboard pointing device and microphone is received at a processor . Processor is configured to communicate with a non volatile storage unit e.g. Erasable Electronic Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Flash Memory and a volatile storage unit e.g. random access memory RAM . Programming instructions that implement the functional teachings of device as described herein are typically maintained persistently in non volatile storage unit and used by processor which makes appropriate utilization of volatile storage during the execution of such programming instructions.

Processor in turn is also configured to control a speaker a display and an indicator . Processor also contains at least one network interface which are implemented in a present embodiment as radios configured to communicate over bearer path . In general it will be understood that interface s is are configured to correspond with the network architecture that defines a particular bearer path . It should be understood that in general a wide variety of configurations for device are contemplated.

In a present embodiment device is also configured to maintain a unique device identifier a dashboard application and an application for checking a destination location for example in non volatile storage and or a cache for data change notifications received from intermediation server as will described below. In any event destination location can comprise a portion of non volatile storage and or a cache allocated for storing data change notifications. Destination location hence comprises at least one of a location in non volatile storage and or any other suitable memory device and a location in a memory structure such a folder for storing data change notifications.

Device identifier represents a unique absolute identifier of device . Exemplary device identifiers can include but are not limited to an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI identifier or a BlackBerry PIN as commonly employed in BlackBerry devices from Research In Motion Inc. Waterloo Ontario Canada. Other exemplary device identifiers will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is thus presently preferred that identifier is absolute non changeable and non transferable being specifically assigned to the hardware of device .

Processor is also configured to execute dashboard application which is enabled to monitor data at originating content server and can comprise in a data structure for monitoring data . For example in some embodiments dashboard application can cause device to transmit a request for data to push server which passes the request to originating content server which returns data or a subset thereof to device . However this process is bandwidth intensive especially when dashboard application is frequently refreshed as can be desired in some embodiments. For example originating content server can comprise an auctioning service where items are bought and sold on line when a device and or an associated device has caused bids to be placed on items being auctioned it can be desirable to request and receive data relating to bids and or bidding for example number of items bid on number of items won number of items being watched number of items lost etc.

In exemplary non limiting embodiments dashboard application comprises a browser application that can refresh automatically and or on request with data received from originating content server comprising browser data and or updates to browser data including but not limited to data that can be displayed in HTML hypertext markup language format.

It is appreciated that in some embodiments changes to data can occur at originating content server that may not result in a visual change to dashboard application . In other embodiments a visual change to data in dashboard application is not readily apparent. In any event it can be desired to indicate when changes have occurred to data without implementing the bandwidth intensive process of requesting and receiving data and or changes to data .

Hence in these embodiments data change notifications can be received from intermediation server and stored in a destination location for example in a memory structure stored in non volatile storage . Application is enabled to check the destination location for data change notifications and in response control indicator to indicate that a change has occurred to data as will be described below.

In some embodiments application can be embedded in dashboard application . For example in embodiments where dashboard application comprises a browser application running HTML code application can comprise a Java applet embedded in the HTML code. However in other embodiments application can be a standalone application.

Processor is configured to access configuration file in order to establish initial settings for one or more applications including dashboard application and or application as well as to define any relevant communication gateways on network that correspond to each of those applications. While a BlackBerry computing environment is not required to implement the present teachings where a BlackBerry computing environment is used to implement device then configuration file can be implemented as a BlackBerry Service Book or as one or more specific entries within a BlackBerry Service Book.

Processor is also configured to receive input from keyboard relative to dashboard application and to generate graphical interfaces on display . Processor is further configured to send and receive data requests messages associated with dashboard application via network and bearer path as will be discussed further below.

Device also includes a battery or other power supply. Battery provides power to components within device .

Indicator can comprise any suitable indicator for indicating that a change has occurred to data including but not limited to at least one of a visual indicator an aural indicator a mechanical indicator a vibrating indicator an LED light emitting diode a speaker and a virtual indicator at display device . Hence in some embodiments indicator can be combined with speaker and or display . In embodiments where indicator is combined with display indicator can comprise a virtual indicator displayed for example within a representation of dashboard application and or application and or a combination. In some embodiments indicator can comprise a portion of a data structure for example a data structure storing dashboard application data displayed at display in a representation of dashboard application . For example in these embodiments indicator can comprise an icon in the representation of dashboard application .

Referring now to intermediation server can be based on any well known server environment including a module that houses one or more central processing units volatile storage e.g. random access memory non volatile storage e.g. hard disk devices and at least one network interface to enable intermediation server to communicate over network and with originating content server . For example intermediation server can be a Sun Fire V480 from Sun Microsystems Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. running a UNIX operating system and having four central processing units each operating at about nine hundred megahertz and having about sixteen gigabytes of random access memory. However it is to be emphasized that this particular server is merely exemplary and a vast array of other types of computing environments for server is contemplated.

Intermediation server is enabled to determine that data at originating content server has changed and in response generate and transmit data change notifications to device via push server . As such in some embodiments intermediation server is enabled to request data and or a subset of data from originating content server . By processing subsequently received versions of data and or a subset of data intermediation server can determine when changes have occurred to data . Alternatively originating content server can monitor data and transmit a notification to intermediation server which then determines that data has changed by processing the notification.

Intermediation server maintains a copy of device identifier and is configured to send data change notification that are addressed using device identifier to device .

Push server can be based can be based on the same or different computing environment as intermediation server such as on any well known server environment including a module that houses one or more central processing units volatile storage e.g. random access memory non volatile storage e.g. hard disk devices and at least one network interface to enable push server to communicate over network and with device . For example intermediation server can be a Sun Fire V480 from Sun Microsystems Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. running a UNIX operating system and having four central processing units each operating at about nine hundred megahertz and having about sixteen gigabytes of random access memory. However it is to be emphasized that this particular server is merely exemplary and a vast array of other types of computing environments for server is contemplated.

Push server also maintains a copy of device identifier and is configured to send data change notification and messages that are addressed using device identifier to device .

Push server and device are thus complementary to each other in that device identifier is used by Push server to send data change notifications and messages to device . While a BlackBerry computing environment is not required to implement the present teachings where a BlackBerry computing environment is used to implement system then intermediation server can be implemented as a Relay server that is specific to a BlackBerry computing environment.

Originating content server can be based on the same or different computing environment as intermediation server . Originating content server is enabled to maintain data and to communicate with intermediation server . It is appreciated that in some embodiments originating content server can further communicate with any suitable number of computing device which can interact with originating content server to cause data to change. In exemplary non limiting embodiments originating content server can comprise an auction service and hence data can be received from various computing devices including but not limited to device indicative of items that are to be auctioned bids on items and the like. Hence data can change frequently based on how often bids are received and the items to be auctioned increase or decrease. Indeed it is appreciated that dashboard application only provides a small subset of data for example the subset of data that includes items associated with an account associated with device and or a user of device including items being sold and or bid on by a user of device .

Attention is now directed to which depicts a method for propagating data change notifications. In order to assist in the explanation of method it will be assumed that method is performed using system . Specifically it is understood that method can be implemented in device . Furthermore the following discussion of method will lead to a further understanding of system and its various components. However it is to be understood that system and or method can be varied and need not work exactly as discussed herein in conjunction with each other and that such variations are within the scope of present embodiments.

At block data change notification is received at device from intermediation server data change notification comprising an indication that a change has occurred to data at originating content server . It is understood that data change notification is transmitted to device without a request for data change notification being transmitted to intermediation server . In other words data change notification is pushed to device .

At block data change notification is stored at destination location for example as depicted in . is substantially similar to with like elements having like numbers however destination location and indicator are depicted in device though it is understood that device further comprises the elements depicted in . It is understood that device is enabled to determine data change notifications indicate changes to data and further enabled to store data change notifications at destination location .

At block destination location is checked for data change notifications. For example application when processed can check destination location for data change notifications. When data change notification is found at block indicator is controlled to indicate that a change has occurred to data . Otherwise blocks to repeat until data change notification is found.

It is also appreciated that indicator can also be controlled to cease indicating that a change has occurred to data . For example after a given period of time and or after receipt of input data from an input device at device indicator can be turned off.

In general blocks to are implemented in application and or dashboard application when application is embedded in dashboard application .

It is appreciated that more than one data change notification can be received at device and that method can repeat any suitable number of times to indicate a plurality of changes to data .

Furthermore it is understood that control of indicator can be customized based on data in data change notification . For example again using the example of originating content server comprising an auction service when a bid has occurred on an item being watched by device and or a user of device indicator can be controlled to indicate that a change has occurred to a watched item. Similarly when a competing bid has occurred on an item being bid on by device and or a user of device indicator can be controlled to indicate that a change has occurred to an item that has been bid on.

Attention is now directed to which depicts a method for propagating data change notifications to a computing device. In order to assist in the explanation of method it will be assumed that method is performed using system . Specifically it is understood that method can be implemented in intermediation server . Furthermore the following discussion of method will lead to a further understanding of system and its various components. However it is to be understood that system and or method can be varied and need not work exactly as discussed herein in conjunction with each other and that such variations are within the scope of present embodiments.

At block intermediation server determines that data at originating content server has changed. In some embodiments block can be implemented by receiving from originating content server at intermediation server a notification that data has changed. In other embodiments block can be implemented by intermediation server requesting data and or a subset thereof at least twice from originating content server comparing each instance of data and or the subset. When each instance is different intermediation server determines that a change has occurred to data .

At block data change notification is generated and transmitted to device which will be received at device within method as described above. Data change notification comprises data indicative that a change has occurred to data and can include data indicative of changes to data associated with device .

It is appreciated that data change notification is transmitted to push server which in turn pushes data change notification to device .

It is further appreciated that method can be repeated any suitable number of times. For example to provide near real time data method can be repeated at least several times per minute

It is further appreciated that in embodiments where block is implemented by intermediation server requesting data and or a subset thereof at least twice from originating content server intermediation server can be configured as a proxy server for device in that intermediation server requests browser data that could be requested by device to display data and or a subset thereof in a browser application.

Specific exemplary embodiments will now be described with reference to a push data computing environment such as a BlackBerry computing environment.

Push data computing environments can generally enable a suite of services that content providers and administrators of the push data computing environment to manage the pushing of data to client applications running on devices such as BlackBerry devices. System will hence enabled allow content providers for example as represented by originating content server to push near real time data to client applications on devices. Furthermore system can enable delivery of data through a secure existing infrastructure such as that represented by firewall and push server . Content providers are further enabled to push the application data to both enterprise and retail device users via a service book such as an ICS Internet Connection Sharing service book associated with a BlackBerry device. Push data Services can also enable a reliable secure set of services that will enable content provider applications to manage subscription to push data services.

Considering now embodiments where originating content server is comprises an auction service provided by a content provider. It is appreciated that platform notifications e.g. notification of changes to data are triggered by events such as the ending of a listing or the creation of a transaction within the auction service. Platform notifications are not identical in intent or content to email messages that buyers and sellers might get when an item is listed bid on or purchased. However they can contain some of the same data that appears in those messages.

Unlike API application programming interface calls which handle data using a request response model platform notifications for some content provider auction services use an asynchronous style of operation in which the data is pushed from originating content server when it is available. That is when you notification preferences are set and the content provider is provided with URLs uniform resource locators email addresses or the like then originating content server delivers notifications to the associated locations as events occur.

In exemplary embodiments then such platform notifications can be pushed to intermediation server where the platform notification can be converted to a PAP Push Access Protocol message i.e. data change notification and then sent to data push infrastructure i.e. push server . Push server then further pushes the data change notification to the device .

In these embodiments originating content server comprises a server side component dealing with platform notification APIs of the content provider. A platform notification API deals with event handling and generates platform notifications which can comprise SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol responses .

Further in these embodiments intermediation server comprises a push proxy which can be hosted either by the content provider or an entity associated with push server . It is appreciated that intermediation server can be combined with one of originating content server and push server . In any event intermediation server receives the platform notifications from originating content server and remodels data as a PAP message according to what is processable by device e.g. based on templates. The PAP message data change notification is then pushed to push server . Hence intermediation server can comprise a stateless proxy component that does not require any sort of capacity or load planning from the content provider or the push data infrastructure. Further intermediation server can subscribe to platform notifications from originating content server using the platform notification API for example via an attribute SetNotificationPreferences preferences already set can be checked with a GetNotificationPreferences attribute. The platform notification usage can be monitored with a GetNotificationsUsage attribute.

Further in these embodiments push server can comprise at least one enterprise server such as BlackBerry Enterprise Servers that are hosted and maintained by an enterprise associated with device . Push server is generally enabled for queuing of alerts acknowledgements and actual push to device . The details are available above.

Application comprises a component that listens for incoming notifications e.g. data change notifications by checking destination location . Application can be deployed as a library in dashboard application .

A non limiting example will now be described within the context of the push data computing environment when originating content server comprises an auction service and with reference to which is substantially similar to with like elements having like numbers.

In the example it is assumed that notifications for being outbid on an item have been subscribed to at originating content server by a user device .

At device or any other suitable device a user logs into originating content server and bids on an item. The bid can be placed via a browser and or an auction client which can include but is not limited to dashboard application . It is assumed that after at least one successful bid attempt the user is outbid by another user. Being outbid triggers an outbid notification from originating content server which can comprise a SOAP message which contains a field which comprises a PIN product identification number of device so that data change notification can be pushed to device . SOAP message is pushed to the intermediation server and contains.

Intermediation server receives SOAP message and based on a template extract data from SOAP message to form a PAP message. It can also extracts the field value of which was set during a SetNotificationPreferencesRequest event for an authentication token. The value of is extracted decrypted if encrypted and used to set an address value in the PAP message which can include the PIN. Once the PAP message is formed it is pushed on to push server as data change notification .

Push server then pushes data change notification to device via the PIN or any other suitable data. Push server can send a transport level acknowledgement to intermediation server .

Device listens for message on an identified port receives data change notification . An acknowledgment can be sent to push server which can in turn send an acknowledgement to intermediation server and in some embodiments originating content server .

At device application which can comprise a JAVA applet in dashboard application listens for incoming data change notifications by checking destination location . In some of these embodiments destination location comprises a listening module in application and or dashboard application . When data change notification is found a JavaScript callback is called which in turn updates dashboard application .

For example attention is directed to which depicts a schematic of an implementation of dashboard application with application embedded therein at device along with destination location . further depicts originating content server . While does not depict links between device and originating content server as in it is appreciated that device and originating content server can communicate via the previously described links. Furthermore while not all elements of device and originating content server are depicted it is appreciated that that all elements previously described are present and device and originating content server .

In the depicted example it is appreciated that dashboard application comprises Link 1 Link 2 . . . Link 6 generically a link and collectively links with each link being associated with a respective Data Field 1 Data Field 2 . . . Data Field 6 generically a data field and collectively data fields . Each data field corresponds to Data 1 Data 2 . . . Data 6 stored at originating content server . It is appreciated that data stored at originating content server changes as described above for example when originating content server comprises an auction service and Data 1 Data 2 . . . Data 6 correspond to items bids and the like associated device and or a user thereof.

In the depicted example when a link is activated for example via an input device data for the corresponding data field is retrieved from originating content server and stored in the corresponding data field as represented by the respective arrows between data at originating content server and each data field. In some embodiments activation of a link further causes a list of details of the corresponding data field to be retrieved from originating content server such as a corresponding list of items and or bids of interest when originating data server comprises and auction service.

However when application finds a data change notification stored at destination location an indication is provided that data at originating content server has changed as in . Hence in these embodiments indicator referred to previously with reference to comprises a virtual indicator in the form of indication . In any event in substantially similar to with like elements having like numbers it is appreciated that Data 4 has been changed. In some embodiments data change notification also comprises the data that has changed e.g. Data 4 as depicted and the data received in data change notification is stored in the respective Data Field 4. Furthermore application also causes the behaviour of dashboard application to change when Link 4 is activated Data 4 is retrieved from destination location rather than originating content server .

This approach to notifications generally reduces overall traffic between device and originating content server as well in the links and networks there between as the approach obviates the need for requests responses to obtain data updates.

It is also appreciated that the data change notification is representative of a state change of data stored at originating content server as well as a state change to data stored in dashboard application for example in the implementation described with reference to Data Field 4 has undergone a state change as the data stored therein changes. Hence the indication i.e. indicator of denotes both a change in activity new activity and that there is no need to make another network call to fetch the data stored therein.

Present embodiments also serve to identify which section of dashboard application recently had activity. From a user perspective it can be appreciated that a user of device wishes to monitor for example his her items bids etc. via dashboard application again reverting to the non limiting example of originating content server comprising an auction service. However the user can be busy with work family etc. and may not be able to follow up on bids in a timely fashion. Assuming a competing bid was recently made on an item data change notification can indicate that the competing bid was placed and either explicitly or inherently indicating that the user was outbid. By viewing indicator at dashboard application the user he she has been outbid on one of the items without opening an outbid items list. In another example another data change notification can be received indicating that an item has been won and indicator at dashboard application is updated accordingly by application . Hence the user is always updated on which data in dashboard application is the newest without the dashboard application having to be completely refreshed.

In another example when a user has a lot of unread outbid notifications received for example via e mail that the user already knows about. In this instance the indicator may not appear as there would be no or little use in grabbing a user s attention to something he has ignored in the first place. For example originating content server can monitor when e mail notifications are transmitted and how often e mail notifications lead to a retrieval of details of an associated event at originating content server are retrieved if details are rarely retrieved e.g. below a threshold number then the data change notifications for related events are not transmitted. Alternatively application can interface with an e mail application not depicted at device and determine if there are unread notifications pertaining to data change notification and hence prevent indicator from being provided and or controlled.

In yet further embodiments when indicator is controlled in response to receiving data change notification and the associated link is not activated application can determine that there is no interest in data change data update and either remove indicator after a given time period and or remove indicator from dashboard application when it is closed and reopened.

In yet further embodiments data associated with data change notification can have a short life. For example a data change notification associated with a watched item whose auction is ending within a given time period e.g. 15 minutes can comprise data representative of the given time period. In some of these embodiments indicator can expire after the given time period for example be removed from dashboard application as the data associated with it has expired.

Attention is now directed to which depicts a specific exemplary representation of dashboard application displayed at display . Representation comprises an identifying header and any suitable number of virtual buttons for triggering interactions with originating content server as depicted Search My Auctions and Sign Out . Furthermore a body includes a plurality of lines each line comprising a link to associated data in the form of descriptive text providing information on numbers BEST OFFERS items being bid on BIDDING ON items WON auctions being won but that aren t yet complete WINNING ON items being watched WATCHED and number of items LOST . Furthermore each line in body can comprise an HTML link to data available via originating content server corresponding to the text in each line. Body can include any suitable type of data and in some embodiments can be configurable. As depicted in data change notification has not yet been found and it is assumed that only one item is being bid on which is currently the winning bid.

In any event once data change notification is found representation is updated as in as data change notification is determined to indicate that the user has been outbid on an item. Hence the number next to WINNING ON decreases to 0 as depicted and an indicator in the form of an icon appears next to the number next to WINNING ON to indicate that the data on this line has changed. In these embodiments indicator comprises icon .

The JavaScript call back e.g. application ensures content in representation does not have to be reloaded to view the latest changes. For example where dashboard application comprises a browser and hence data displayed in dashboard application comprises browser data such as HTML data and or a webpage then the page dos not have to be reloaded to get the updates for the browser data.

The design pattern for the JavaScript callback is inversion of control i.e. if a new event is triggered then the JavaScript callback calls another module instead of the parent module polling for information related to the event. The flow of information is hence from JAVA to JavaScript. This asynchronous update keeps device updated on activities at originating content server that are related to dashboard application browser data which might effect a future interaction decision.

While described with reference to an auction service it is appreciated that live web content updates using push data services present an easy and bandwidth efficient way to updates in a browser based solution without having to do a push pull request response page reload.

As described above in some embodiments the functionality of the intermediation server can be summarized as follows 

2. Extract a device PIN from a field in for example via a platformNotification API in the SOAP notification payload 

Variations of the foregoing are contemplated. For example shows system which is a variation on system and like elements in system include like references to their counterparts in system except followed by the suffix a . However in system originating content server has been replaced by a backup server in communication with a data storage device via network or any other suitable network and suitable backhaul links and . Each of backup server and storage server can be based on the same or different computing environment as intermediation server as described above.

It is appreciated that data stored at storage server is backed up at backup server periodically and or as desired in a backup event and or a synchronization event. For example storage server can comprise a server of an enterprise that stores data associated with the enterprise and backup server can comprise a server associated with a remote data storage service. It is appreciated that in some embodiments backups can occur nightly and or hourly and or every 15 minutes by transmitting data to server . Furthermore it is understood that after an initial seeding event in which all data stored at server is copied to backup server then data transmitted in a backup synchronization event can comprise a delta between the data stored at server and the data stored at server . It is appreciated that data can be transmitted via a plurality of packets over a period of time such that a backup synchronization event occurs in a series of smaller transfers.

In any event it is appreciated that in these embodiments device can comprise an application for monitoring backups synchronizations so that the progress of a backup synchronization event can be monitored. A non limiting embodiment of a representation of such a monitoring application is provided in representation displayed on a display at device similar to display described above. Representation comprises an indicator which indicates changes to data stored at backup server and specifically the progress of a backup synchronization event between server and server .

In these embodiments backup server is enabled to push messages to intermediation server push messages comprising data indicative of the progress of a backup synchronization event. Such progress can be determined as in a first transfer of data to server server can indicate the total amount of data that is to be backed up. In any event intermediation server formats the payload of data change notifications to indicate the progress of the backup synchronization event using the payload from messages and pushes data change notifications to push server which in turn pushes data change notifications to device . Data change notifications are monitored by an application for monitoring data change notices as described above and updates to the representation are provided without having to request progress data from server . In this manner the progress of the backup synchronization event can be monitored without having to do a push pull request response page reload and using existing push infrastructure as represented by push server

To provide near real time updates any suitable number messages can be pushed to intermediation server at any suitable frequency. Furthermore monitoring of backup synchronization events can be controlled by transmitting control data to server from device indicating whether messages are to be pushed or not.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in some embodiments the functionality of devices and servers and can be implemented using pre programmed hardware or firmware elements e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs etc. or other related components. In other embodiments the functionality of devices and servers and can be achieved using a computing apparatus that has access to a code memory not shown which stores computer readable program code for operation of the computing apparatus. The computer readable program code could be stored on a computer readable storage medium which is fixed tangible and readable directly by these components e.g. removable diskette CD ROM ROM fixed disk USB drive . Alternatively the computer readable program code could be stored remotely but transmittable to these components via a modem or other interface device connected to a network including without limitation the Internet over a transmission medium. The transmission medium can be either a non wireless medium e.g. optical and or digital and or analog communications lines or a wireless medium e.g. microwave infrared free space optical or other transmission schemes or a combination thereof.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.

Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that there are yet more alternative implementations and modifications possible for implementing the embodiments and that the above implementations and examples are only illustrations of one or more embodiments. The scope therefore is only to be limited by the claims appended hereto.

