---

title: Detecting spam events in event management systems
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes accessing event information and payment information associated with an event listing on an event management system, and calculating a spam risk score for the event listing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08844031&OS=08844031&RS=08844031
owner: Eventbrite, Inc.
number: 08844031
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
The present disclosure generally relates to online event management systems and spam detection systems.

Many websites allow users to conduct a variety of actions online such as viewing content writing reviews ordering items purchasing tickets etc. These websites often present the user with a plurality of actions to choose from and allow the user to select the type of action he would like to perform. Once the action is selected the website typically redirects the client system of the user to a webpage where the action can be completed. For example some websites allow users to organize events using an online event management system. An online event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An online event management system may also allow users to view event listings register for events and purchase tickets for events. Online systems such as online event management systems can typically be accessed using suitable browser clients e.g. Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer .

Some users of an online event management system may attempt to improperly use the system such as by violating the terms of services of the system or by using the system to commit illegal or improper acts. One type of improper use is creating event listings that contain spam or other improper advertisements. For example a user may create an online event listing for a fake event and then use the event listing to display an advertisement for a product e.g. erectile dysfunction drugs nutraceuticals pornography . Another type of improper use is creating event listings that include a large number of links to other sites in an attempt to boost rankings at search engines.

In particular embodiments an event management system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more event organization and management systems. An event management system may generate store receive and transmit event related data such as for example event listings event details event history details event registration details event organizer details event attendee details ticket purchase details and event displays. An event management system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . In particular embodiments spam detection system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more event spam detection engines. Spam detection system may generate store receive and transmit event spam related information such as for example event related data event organizer information and spam risk scores. Spam detection system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . Spam detection system may be an independent system or a subsystem of event management system .

In particular embodiments one or more users may use one or more client systems to access send data to and receive data from an event management system . A client system may access an event management system directly via network or via a third party system. A client system may be any suitable computing device such as for example a personal computer a laptop a cellular phone a smart phone or a computing tablet. In particular embodiments one or more users may be an automated system such as for example a computer program an internet bot a computer virus malware another type of automated system or two or more such systems.

Network may be any suitable communications network. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Connections may connect client system spam detection system and event management system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable connections . In particular embodiments one or more connections include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH connections. In particular embodiments one or more connections each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network another connection or a combination of two or more such connections . Connections need not necessarily be the same throughout system . One or more first connections may differ in one or more respects from one or more second connections .

In particular embodiments an event management system may allow users to create organize and manage events. An event may be for example a party a concert a conference a sporting event a fundraiser a networking event or a live performance. Events may occur online such as for example a web based seminar and offline such as for example a live seminar in a lecture hall . An online event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets managing funds from ticket sales promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An online event management system may also allow event attendees to view and manage various aspects of registering for an event such as for example viewing event listings viewing event information viewing event history information registering for events and purchasing tickets for events. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may use event management system to create and organize an event. The first user may input event information associated with the event. This information may be viewable in one or more web pages or other content served by event management system . One or more second users may then use event management system to register for the event. The second users may view an event listing associated with the event and then purchase tickets for the event. Although this disclosure describes particular types of events this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of events. Moreover although this disclosure describes organizing and managing particular aspects of an event this disclosure contemplates organizing and managing any suitable aspects of an event.

In particular embodiments each event that event management system is managing has an associated event listing. An event listing may be accessed and displayed by any suitable client system . An event listing may have an event information associated with the event listing. Event information may include information describing the event date type cost organizer promoter geographic location venue performer attendees types of classes of tickets available and other suitable event information. Other information can include hypertext links to resources related to or describing the event and the like. Although this disclosure describes particular types of event information this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of event information. An event listing may also have a payment information associated with the event listing. Payment information may include the address verification system code for the payments for the event the credit cards used to pay for the event the decline rate for the credit cards the use ratio of the credit cards the locations of payers the IP addresses of the payers the use ratio of the IP addresses the number of prior payouts to the event organizer the amount of prior payouts to the event organizer and other suitable payment information. Although this disclosure describes particular types of payment information this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of payment information.

In particular embodiments each user of event management system may have an event history information associated with the user . Event history information may include event information and payment information associated with one or more events a user has attended or has registered to attend as well as purchase history information associated with the event. Event history information may also include event information and payment information associated with one or more event listings a user has created organized and managed. Although this disclosure describes particular event history information this disclosure contemplates any suitable event history information.

In particular embodiments the event management system may use unique client identifiers to identify a user . As an example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each client system . The event management system may assign each client system with an unique client identifier based on the IP address of the client system tracking cookies on the client system which may be appended to HTTP requests transmitted by the client system the serial number or asset tag of the client system or other suitable identifying information. For example in one implementation a script implemented in a page downloaded to the client system may access various attributes of the client system to determine a hardware based signature that can be used to uniquely identify client system .

In addition event management system may maintain an account for each user. An account may be of one or at least two types such as a consumer event attendee account and an event organizer account. The event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each user which the user must provide to the event management system via a client system . The event management system may maintain for each user a username and password that the user can input into client system which then transmits the username and password to the event management system . In particular embodiments the event management system can use the unique client identifier to determine that the user is accessing the system.

In particular embodiments the event management system may maintain an event management account for a user . The event management account may contain a variety of information about the user . As an example and not by way of limitation an event management account may contain personal information such as for example name sex location and interests social network information such as for example friend connections financial information such as for example income and credit history event history information such as for example the type data cost venue performers and geographic location of the events a user has organized registered for or attended and other suitable information related to the user . The event management account may also contain information related to the event listings created by the user the orders received for tickets to various events funds collected by event management system from ticket sales for event listings created by the user and information related to funds paid out to the user . Although this disclosure describes event management accounts containing particular types of information about a user this disclosure contemplates event management accounts containing any suitable information about a user .

In particular embodiments a spam detection system may evaluate one or more event listings for potential or actual spam. Spam detection system may be an independent system or a subsystem of event management system . Spam detection system may access event listings and associated event information and event organizer account information on event management system and analyze the event listings for improper fraudulent or illegal use. Although this disclosure describes particular methods for evaluating event listings for spam this disclosure contemplates any suitable methods for evaluating event listings for spam.

In particular embodiments an event listing may be evaluated for spam by calculating a spam risk score for the event listing. A spam risk score may represent the probability an event listing is spam the percentile rank of the risk of spam associated with the event listing in relation to other event listings or other suitable scoring representations. As an example and not by way of limitation spam detection system may analyze a set of event listings for spam and calculate a preliminary spam value associated with the risk of spam for each event listing. Spam detection system may then sort the event listings by preliminary spam value and calculate a percentile rank associate with each event listing or preliminary spam value. The percentile ranks may then be used as the spam risk scores for the event listings. As another example and not by way of limitation spam detection system may analyze a set of event listings and determine the mean or nominal values for particular types of event information. Spam detection system may then calculate the deviation of each event listing from these mean or nominal values such that event listings with more or larger deviations may have higher spam risk scores than event listings with fewer or smaller deviations. For example if the nominal value for an event location is United States then event listings with event locations of Nigeria may have high spam risk scores than event listings with event locations of United States. As another example if the mean number of hypertext links included in an event listing is 4 with a standard deviation of 2 then an event listing with 30 hypertext links may have a high spam risk score. Although this disclosure describes using particular methods for scoring the risk of spam associated with an event listing this disclosure contemplates using any suitable methods for scoring the risk of spam associated with an event listing.

Spam detection system may calculate a spam risk score for an event listing based on a variety of factors such as for example event information associated with the event listings event organizer account history information associated with event organizer associated with the listing other event organizer accounts that are related to or associated with the account of the event listing other suitable event or payment information or two or more such factors. The following is an example algorithm that spam detection system could use to calculate a spam risk score 

Although this disclosure describes calculating a spam risk score using a multi factor algorithm this disclosure contemplates calculating a spam risk score using any suitable algorithm. Moreover although this disclosure describes calculating a spam risk score using particular variables that represent particular information this disclosure contemplates calculating a spam risk score using any suitable variables representing any suitable information. Further description of an example spam detection model is provided below.

In particular embodiments spam detection system may evaluate an event listing for spam at particular times. Spam detection may be in real time or post facto. As an example and not by way of limitation spam detection system may evaluate an event listing for spam when the event listing is created by an event organizer. As yet another example and not by way of limitation spam detection system may evaluate an event listing for spam periodically such as once an hour once a day or another suitable period. As yet another example and not by way of limitation spam detection system may evaluate an event listing for spam whenever any information associated with the event listing changes such as new ticket orders being added changes to the event description being made or any other such changes occurring . Although this disclosure describes evaluation of event listings at particular times this disclosure contemplates evaluation of event listings at any suitable times. In particular embodiments spam detection system may evaluate a set of event listings for spam in particular orders. Spam detection system may evaluate one or more event listings individually in batches in whole or by other suitable process groupings.

In particular embodiments spam detection system may evaluate an event listing for spam based on the event information associated with the event listing. Event information may include or be directed to the nature and amount of configuration the event organizer has performed to create the event listing include the number and types of different tickets as opposed to only one or a default ticket type text information describing the event the number and sizes of images posted to the event listing the event type cost organizer promoter geographic location venue performer and other suitable event information. Event information may also include activity observed by the event management system related to the event such as the number of page views for the event and the number of ticket purchases. For example a large number of page views in comparison to no or relatively few ticket sales may indicate a spam event listing as users when encountering the event listing page recognize it as spam and do not purchase a ticket. Event information may also include information describing the event organizer such as for example the event organizer s name email contact information location IP address reputation financial information credit score bank account number payment history and other suitable information about the event organizer. In particular embodiments spam detection system may evaluate an event listing for spam based on the location of the event. Event organizer information may also include the total number of events and or the creation rate at which events associated with event organizer are configured and entered into event management system . IP addresses in particular locations or countries may be more likely to be associated with spam than events in other locations or countries. The location of an IP address associated with the event organizer may be determined by event management system by accessing one or more packets transmitted by a client system associated with an event organizer. As an example and not by way of limitation IP addresses located in the United States or the European Union may present lower spam risk than IP addresses located in various African nations or former Eastern Bloc countries that are known to present higher spam risk. The location of an event organizer may be determined by querying the event organizer account information from the event organizer s financial or personal information by examining the IP address of the event organizer when he accesses event management system or by other suitable methods. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer from Romania may have a higher spam risk score than an event listing with an event organizer from the United States. In particular embodiments spam detection system may evaluate an event listing for spam based on the reputation of the event organizer. Event organizers who have previously created non spam related event listings may be less likely to create spam event listings in the future. Similarly event organizers who have previously created spam event listings may be more likely to create spam event listings. Furthermore new users of event management system may be more likely to create spam event listings than users with a history of using the system. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer who has a history of creating non spam related event listings may have a lower spam risk score than an event listing with an event organizer who has no history of creating event listings.

In one implementation the spam detection system considers the actions associated with a given remote host identified by IP address or some other identifier as discussed above or set of remote hosts associated with one or more event organizer accounts under analysis. In particular implementations the spam detection system accesses a data log to identify the existence of a pattern of behavior associated with the same remote host or group of related hosts. In one implementation the pattern involves the creation of event organizer accounts and subsequent event listings associated with that account. It has been observed that some spammers attempt to mask their efforts by creating multiple event organizer accounts and using each organizer account to create relatively fewer event listings. Indeed a given spammer may create multiple accounts and event listings in a given period such as an hour day or month. In one implementation event management system maintains an account creation time field that stores a time stamp value corresponding to the point in time when an account is created. Event management system in one implementation may also store identifiers such as IP addresses hardware signatures etc. associated with each remote host that is used to access a corresponding event organizer account. Similarly event management system also maintains event listing creation times for all created event listings. In a particular implementation spam detection system accesses a data store of event management activity against a host identifier to identify the number of instances where an account creation event listing creation pair is observed for the remote host over one or more time intervals such as the last hour twelve hours day or month before the current time of analysis or before the time of creation of the event being analyzed for spam risk. In one implementation this analysis is performed for a single remote host. In other implementations the process analyzes account creation and event listings across all remote hosts that have been used to access the event organizer account directly associated with a given event listing under analysis. In one implementation the spam detection system identifies patterns that consider both the age of the user s account and the rate of event creation so that a new user who creates a large number of events may be considered as more risky than an established user who creates the same number of events.

In one implementation spam detection system can implement a spam detection model that considers one or more of the foregoing factors. For example in one implementation a data set that includes data based on selected factors can be used as a training model for a regression based algorithm to develop a spam detection model that receives one or more attributes as inputs and outputs a spam risk score. In one implementation the M5P algorithm can be used to construct a spam scoring model. M5P combines a decision tree with the possibility of linear regression functions at the leaf nodes of the tree. Generally speaking a decision tree induction algorithm is used to build a tree but instead of maximizing the information gain at each inner node a splitting criterion is used that minimizes the intra subset variation in the class values down each branch. The splitting procedure in M5P stops if the class values of all instances that reach a node vary very slightly or only a few instances remain. The tree may be pruned back from each leaf node. When pruning an inner node is turned into a leaf with a regression plane. To avoid sharp discontinuities between the sub trees a smoothing procedure may be applied that combines the leaf model prediction with each node along the path back to the root smoothing it at each of these nodes by combining it with the value predicted by the linear model for that node.

In one implementation the training set for the spam detection model includes the following factors 1 the number of links on the event listing page 2 the event creation rate associated with the instant event organizer account 3 the number of event organizer accounts associated with the same host 4 the account event creation pair velocity pattern see above associated with the remote host and 5 the country corresponding to the IP address of the remote host from which a user access the event organizer account. In one implementation the account event creation pair velocity factor can be separated into sub factors based on the length of the analysis window if more than one time window e.g. last day week month etc. is used . In some implementations the spam detection model is built such that each of the factors discussed above include thresholds that may vary depending on the values of factor combinations. When a threshold is crossed for a given factor the risk score in one embodiment increases. In some implementations the value of one factor such as country of IP address may cause the thresholds for other factors such as event creation rate to vary. For example the model may be less tolerant of a high event creation rate from an Eastern Bloc country than from accounts associated with the United States. In implementations that use M5P to construct a spam scoring model the attributes of a given event listing may be used to initially find a leaf node of the model where a regression model may consider one or more of the factors to compute a spam risk score.

In one implementation spam detection system may also implement other spam detection models in addition to the foregoing model. For example spam detection model may also input the number of hypertext links contained in the event listing to separate spam scoring model that considers this attribute alone or in combination with the country of IP address to determine a separate score. The function that considers the number of links may be a sigmoid function that returns a score between 0 and 1 based on the number of hypertext links in the page. In one implementation there may be different sigmoid functions for different countries that are associated with the event listing. Spam detection system may normalize the two scores and select the greater of the two scores for purposes of assigning a final score to a given event listing.

In particular embodiments spam detection system may perform a variety of actions to counter improper activities once an event listing has been found to be spam. As an example and not by way of limitation spam detection system may deactivate the event management account and corresponding event listings associated with the event organizer who created a spam event listing. As another example and not by way of limitation spam detection system may stop ticket sales for an event associated with a spam event listing. In another implementation the spam detection system may flag all event listings created by the event organizer account for manual review.

In particular embodiments spam detection system may display the results of its evaluation of an event listing for spam. As an example and not by way of limitation spam detection system may calculate a spam risk score for a particular event listing and transmit that score to a client system where it can be viewed by a user. illustrates a system administrator interface that displays event listing pages as thumbnails in association with a spam risk score. From this interface a system administrator may manually evaluate the event listing and input a final determination. As another example and not by way of limitation spam detection system may transmit a spam risk score to event management system where it can be viewed by a system administrator. Although this disclosure describes displaying the evaluation of an event listing for spam on particular systems this disclosure contemplates displaying the evaluation of an event listing for spam on any suitable system. As an example and not by way of limitation the calculation of a spam risk score may be displayed on client system spam detection system event management system another suitable system or two or more such systems.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Furthermore a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein an A or the A means one or more A unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover this disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of one or more features from any example embodiment with one or more features of any other example embodiment herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

