---

title: Centrifugal compressor impeller
abstract: A compressor impeller includes a hub, main blades and splitter blades. The main blades are equally spaced around the circumference of the hub. Each splitter blade is equally spaced between two adjacent main blades. Each main blade and splitter blade has suction and pressure surfaces formed in substantial compliance with normalized Cartesian coordinate values of X, Y, and Z set forth in Tables 1-4. When connected by smooth, continuing arcs, the normalized Cartesian coordinates form complete main blade and splitter blade shapes that are substantially matched by the main blade and splitter blade shapes of the compressor impeller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08579591&OS=08579591&RS=08579591
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 08579591
owner_city: Windsor Locks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101028
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N00019 06 C 0081 Sub Contract No. 4500019224 awarded by the United States Navy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to gas turbine engines. In particular the invention relates to a centrifugal compressor impeller for use in gas turbine engines.

Gas turbine engines generally comprise a compressor and a turbine wheel. Smaller gas turbines often employ a centrifugal compressor due to its inherent space efficiency. The primary component of a centrifugal compressor is a compressor impeller. The compressor impeller compresses incoming air which is directed through a diffuser to a combustion chamber mixed with fuel and ignited. The turbine wheel is propelled by rapidly expanding gases resulting from the combustion of the fuel and the compressed incoming air. The compressor impeller is linked to and powered by the turbine wheel.

Overall gas turbine engine cycle efficiency is determined in part by a compression ratio air pressure exiting the compressor divided by the air pressure entering the compressor . The higher the compression ratio the higher the gas turbine engine cycle efficiency. The compression ratio is a function of the efficiency of the compressor and compressor impeller. The greater the compression ratio for a given flow rate and work factor the more efficient the compressor impeller.

The present invention concerns a compressor impeller. The compressor impeller has a hub a plurality of main blades and a plurality of splitter blades. Each of the main blades is equally spaced around the circumference of the hub and each of the splitter blades is equally spaced between two adjacent main blades.

Each of the main blades has a suction surface formed in substantial conformance with normalized Cartesian coordinate values of X Y and Z set forth in Table 1 and a pressure surface formed in substantial conformance with normalized Cartesian coordinate values of X Y and Z set forth in Table 2. Each of the splitter blades has a suction surface formed in substantial conformance with normalized Cartesian coordinate values of X Y and Z set forth in Table 3 and a pressure surface formed in substantial conformance with normalized Cartesian coordinate values of X Y and Z set forth in Table 4. When connected by smooth continuing arcs the normalized Cartesian coordinates form complete main blade and splitter blade shapes that are substantially matched by the main blade and splitter blade shapes of the compressor impeller.

Conventional centrifugal compressor impellers in gas turbine engines are not efficient enough for higher performance auxiliary power units required to meet performance targets for new aircraft. Conventional centrifugal compressor impeller blade geometries do not generate the compression ratios necessary to achieve the required performance for a given air flow rate. Thus an improved impeller design able to produce a higher compression ratio for a given air flow rate would significantly improve the efficiency of a gas turbine engine. The present invention includes novel compressor impeller blade geometries that result in an increase in the compression ratio for a given air flow rate. The present invention is scalable and therefore best described in normalized units to permit application in a wide variety of gas turbine engine sizes.

Air inlet attaches to compressor impeller and to turbine wheel of rotor assembly along centerline axis C connecting compressor impeller to turbine wheel . Compressor shroud axially surrounds compressor impeller and diffuser . A first flanged end of compressor shroud coextensive with an end of compressor impeller farthest from turbine wheel attaches to air inlet at forward inlet flange . Forward inlet flange is adjacent to bell mouth which contains forward inlet . A second flanged end of compressor shroud coextensive with an end of turbine wheel farthest from compressor impeller attaches to combustor assembly at combustor flange . Combustor flange is adjacent to combustor housing which contains combustion chamber .

In operation air enters forward inlet of air inlet at bell mouth and is compressed by the centrifugal action of compressor impeller . The compressed air is directed by compressor shroud through diffuser and into combustor housing where it mixes with fuel and is ignited to produce a flame in combustor chamber . Diffuser comprises a series of impediments to air flow such as angled vanes to slow the compressed air and increase its pressure thereby preventing the compressed air from blowing out the flame in combustion chamber . High temperature gases produced by the flame expand rapidly and propel turbine wheel . Turbine wheel drives compressor impeller by way of a coupling between turbine wheel and compressor impeller .

The thermodynamic efficiency of any turbine engine depends on the compression ratio defined as the ratio of the air pressure measured at forward inlet and the air pressure measured aft of diffuser . In general higher overall compression ratios offer increased efficiency and improved engine performance. Overall engine performance thus depends upon the ability of compressor impeller to produce a higher compression ratio for a given air flow rate and work factor.

Main blades are machined such that they are evenly distributed around the circumference of hub . Similarly splitter blades are also machined such that they too are evenly distributed around the circumference of hub . Each splitter blade is between two adjacent main blades at a point generally equidistant from two adjacent main blades .

Operation is best described by considering A and B together. In operation as compressor impeller rotates in the direction shown by arrow ROT in air proximate pressure side of main blade increases in pressure and air proximate suction side decreases in pressure. As a result the air is forced by main blades along a flow channel defined by adjacent main blades and hub surface . Air flow F flows in a generally axial direction as it enters compressor rotor at leading edge . As air flow F flows through the flow channel it is accelerated in a more radial direction by hub surface which as can be seen from has a generally frustoconical shape. At trailing edge air flow is in a generally radial direction and has been accelerated to a high radial velocity.

As shown in main blades are oriented such that they are angled in the direction of rotation. This tends to reduce the pressure difference between suction surface and pressure surface . This is important because if the pressure difference becomes large enough the flow of air flow F will separate from suction surface resulting in greater impeller inefficiency. However as the flow channel defined by adjacent main blades and hub surface moves aft the distance between adjacent main blades becomes larger due to the general frustoconical shape of hub and the tendency for flow separation increases. This effect is countered by splitter blade . Splitter blade splits the flow channel into two smaller flow channels with each flow path defined by main blade adjacent splitter blade and hub surface . The shorter distance between adjacent blades reduces the tendency of the air flow to separate from the suction side either suction surface or suction surface enhancing efficiency.

Efficiency of compressor impeller is further enhanced by shaping main blade and splitter blade to create improved air flow patterns. The main blade and splitter blade in the present invention comprise novel blade shapes that significantly improve the efficiency of compressor impeller over the prior art. illustrate the extent of this efficiency improvement. Curves and of show the compression ratio achieved by a compressor employing compressor impeller of the present invention compared to curves and which show the compression ratio of a state of the art compressor for various air flow values. A pair of curves e.g. curve and curve is generated for various values of full design rotational speed where 100 represents full design rotational speed. Both axes are normalized by design target values. For example curve illustrates the performance of the compressor employing compressor impeller at 93 of full compressor impeller design speed. Curve illustrates the performance of a state of the art compressor at the same speed. All points of curve are above curve indicating improved performance over a range of air flows. As shown in a compressor employing the compressor impeller of the present invention achieves significantly better compression ratios for air flow rates below at and above the design flow rate.

As mentioned above the present invention is scalable and therefore best described in normalized units to permit application in a wide variety of gas turbine engine sizes. Tables 1 and 2 describe in detail the novel shape of main blade using normalized Cartesian coordinates. Table 1 describes the shape of suction surface and Table 2 describes shape of pressure surface . Similarly Tables 3 and 4 describe in detail the novel shape of splitter blade using normalized Cartesian coordinates. Table 3 describes the shape of suction surface and Table 4 describes shape of pressure surface . Each Table contains coordinates defining the designated blade surface along one of nine blade sections S S as illustrated in . Blade sections S S are distributed at one eighth intervals along the span of main blade and splitter blade from minimal span proximate blade root and blade root respectively to maximum span S proximate blade tip and blade tip respectively as shown. The Cartesian coordinates when connected by smooth continuing arcs form complete main blade and splitter blade shapes that are substantially matched by the main blade and splitter blade shapes of compressor impeller of the present invention.

Dimensional coordinates are found from the normalized Cartesian coordinates employed in the Tables by multiplying the Table values by radius R of the desired compressor impeller. Thus the normalized coordinates employed in the tables are labeled X R Y R and Z R to clearly indicate the relationship between the Table coordinates and those necessary to produce an actual compressor impeller. As mentioned above radius R is the radial distance between center line Cand hub surface at the most forward or upstream point of hub surface . Rotated about center line C this defines plane X R 0 for the Cartesian coordinate system employed in the Tables with X R increasing in the aft direction. For main blade Z R represents the normalized distance from a plane containing center line C the plane also parallel to a line tangential to hub surface at the most forward or upstream point of hub surface aligning with the center of main blade at X R 0. For splitter blade Z R represents the normalized distance from a plane containing center line C the plane parallel to a line tangential to hub surface at the most forward or upstream point of hub surface midpoint on the circumference of hub surface between adjacent main blades . Z R is 0 at C. Y R represents the normalized distance from a plane that contains center line Cand is perpendicular the Z R plane. Following the right hand rule facing the aft direction with values of Z R increasing vertically values of Y R to the left are negative and values of Y R to the right are positive.

Radius R values may vary widely depending on the desired application for compressor impeller . In one set of embodiments R varies from about 0.5 inches 12.7 mm to about 1.5 inches 38.1 mm . For embodiments employed as auxiliary power units for use with aircraft R varies between about 1.0 inches 25.4 mm to about 1.2 inches 30.5 mm . In another embodiment R is 1.06 0.015 inches 26.9 0.4 mm .

Novel aspects of main blade and splitter blade of compressor of the present invention described herein are achieved by substantial conformance to specified geometries. Substantial conformance generally includes or may include manufacturing tolerances of dimensional coordinates of about 0.015 inches 0.4 mm and of normal thickness of 0.008 inches 0.2 mm in order to account for variations in cutting shaping surface finishing and other manufacturing processes. This tolerance is absolute and applies to all embodiments of compressor regardless of size.

In particular the manufacturing tolerance is applicable to main blade or splitter blade surfaces having a particular size and shape as determined by selecting a particular radius R from within a specified range which are scalable to different sizes within that range. In these embodiments substantial conformance is based on sets of points representing a three dimensional surface with particular physical dimensions for example in inches or millimeters as determined by selecting particular values of radius R. A substantially conforming main blade or splitter blade has surfaces that conform to the specified sets of points within the specified tolerance.

Alternatively substantial conformance is based on a determination by a national or international regulatory body for example in a part certification or parts manufacture approval PMA process for the Federal Aviation Administration the European Aviation Safety Agency the Civil Aviation Administration of China the Japan Civil Aviation Bureau or the Russian Federal Agency for Air Transport. In these embodiments substantial conformance encompasses a determination that a particular compressor impeller is identical to or sufficiently similar to the specified compressor impeller comprising main blades and splitter blades or that the compressor impeller is sufficiently the same with respect to a part design in a type certified compressor impeller such that the compressor impeller complies with airworthiness standards applicable to the specified compressor impeller. In particular substantial conformance encompasses any regulatory determination that a particular part or structure is sufficiently similar to identical to or the same as a specified compressor impeller of the present invention such that certification or authorization for use is based at least in part on the determination of similarity.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

