---

title: Integration of a terahertz quantum cascade laser with a hollow waveguide
abstract: The present invention is directed to the integration of a quantum cascade laser with a hollow waveguide on a chip to improve both the beam pattern and manufacturability. By coupling the QCL output into a single-mode rectangular waveguide the radiation mode structure can be known and the propagation, manipulation, and broadcast of the QCL radiation can then be entirely controlled by well-established rectangular waveguide techniques. By controlling the impedance of the interface, enhanced functions, such as creating amplifiers, efficient coupling to external cavities, and increasing power output from metal-metal THz QCLs, are also enabled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08213476&OS=08213476&RS=08213476
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08213476
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100825
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 297 872 filed Jan. 25 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to terahertz THz technologies and in particular to coupling a terahertz quantum cascade laser QCL to a hollow waveguide impedance matching the interface between the laser and the waveguide and using the impedance matching to enable efficient extraction of light from the QCL off chip or to enable THz photonic integrated circuits on chip.

The capability of delivering more than 1 mW of average power at frequencies above about 2 THz combined with very good intrinsic frequency definition make QCLs an appealing solid state solution as compact THz sources. However several challenges to the implementation of QCLs as practical THz sources remain. Among these challenges are to couple the QCL power efficiently to other devices possibly on the same chip or into free space. To couple the power efficiently to other devices on the same chip low loss waveguides are desired whereas to efficiently propagate the QCL power off the chip requires shaping the non optimal output beam patterns observed from QCLs into a more useful and predictable beam shape which can be propagated and recoupled to other devices.

There are essentially two types of waveguides of THz QCLs plasmon and metal metal. For both the beam patterns found in the literature show far field patterns with complex phase structures that are very detrimental for coupling a laser to coherent mixers. See A. J. L. Adam et al. Beam patterns of terahertz quantum cascade lasers with subwavelength cavity dimensions 88 15 151105 2006 and E. E. Orlova et al. Antenna Model for Wire Lasers 96 173904 2006 . Even when the beam is nominally Gaussian poor coupling to external coherent detectors is observed possibly due to a large number of emitted modes with different phases. See H. Richter et al. Terahertz heterodyne receiver with quantum cascade laser and hot electron bolometer mixer in a pulse tube cooler 93 141108 2008 . Groups have tried various approaches to improve the beam quality over the last couple of years. These include soldering a triangular piece of metal on to the end of a QCL sandwiching the laser between two pieces of silicon to make a capacitive waveguide and horn placing a silicon lens in contact with the facet butt coupling a QCL into a hollow pyrex tube and more recently distributed feedback third order Bragg gratings and etched semiconductor horns. See S. Barbieri et al. Integrated Horn Antenna for Microstrip Waveguide THz Quantum Cascade Lasers CWP4 2007 M. Amanti et al. Horn antennas for terahertz quantum cascade lasers 43 573 2007 A. W. M. Lee et al. High power and high temperature THz quantum cascade lasers based on lens coupled metal metal waveguides 32 19 2840 2007 A. A. Danylov et al. Transformation of the multimode terahertz quantum cascade laser beam into a Gaussian using a hollow dielectric waveguide 46 22 5051 2007 M. I. Amanti et al. Low divergence single mode terahertz quantum cascade laser 3 586 2009 and J. Lloyd Hughes Coupling terahertz radiation between sub wavelength metal metal waveguides and free space using monolithically integrated horn antennae 17 20 18387 2009 . While each of these approaches improved the beam quality the first four required individual microassembly by hand which are not inherently mass manufacturable in an economic and scalable parallel fabrication process and the last still couples to multiple modes.

While some of these previous approaches in particular the 3order DFB are beginning to provide reasonable coupling to free space none of these are good for guiding THz radiation intra chip to couple to other THz devices. Such THz photonic integrated circuits ICs would help close the THz technology gap between microwave electronics and infrared photonics which currently have much greater functionality because they already integrate multiple devices on the same chip. Traditional waveguides fabricated on semiconductor platforms such as dielectric guides in the infrared or co planar waveguides in the microwave regions suffer high absorption and radiative losses in the THz. The former leads to very short propagation lengths while the latter leads to unwanted radiation modes and or crosstalk in integrated devices. For this reason the waveguide of choice at these frequencies are metallic hollow rectangular waveguides. For the most part these waveguides are fabricated in two halves which are sandwiched together to form the enclosed space. As frequencies exceed 1 THz traditional machining becomes much more difficult and prohibitively expensive for broad use thus micromachining techniques are being developed. See e.g. P. L. Kirby Characterization of Micromachined Silicon Rectangular Waveguides at 400 GHz 16 3 366 2006 and V. Desmaris All metal micromachining for the fabrication of sub millimeter and THz waveguide components and circuits 18 095004 2008 . These split blocks require careful insertion of and subsequent connection by hand to active devices. Only a couple efforts have tried to fabricate monolithic waveguides on a chip with or without integrated devices. See J. W. Bowen Micromachined waveguide antennas for 1.6 THz 42 15 2006 and H. Kazimi Active micromachined integrated terahertz circuits 20 5 967 1999 .

However a need remains for a laser source monolithically integrated with a hollow waveguide on the same chip. This integration would allow coupling to mature rectangular waveguide components and circuits guiding the emission of QCL radiation around on a chip and controlling the emission beam pattern and number of radiated modes by controlling the shape of the waveguide and horn antennas coupled to the waveguides. In addition by altering the geometry of the interface between the laser and rectangular waveguide the coupling of the QCL to the outside world could be controlled.

The present invention is directed to an integrated quantum cascade laser and hollow waveguide device comprising a substrate a hollow waveguide on the substrate a quantum cascade laser comprising a waveguided heterostructure active region for generation of laser light on the substrate and an interface between an end facet of the quantum cascade laser and an entrance end of the hollow waveguide for coupling of the laser light from the quantum cascade laser into the hollow waveguide or for coupling external light from the hollow waveguide into the quantum cascade laser. For example the interface can comprise an abrupt transition a stepped transition or a tapered transition to control the impedance mismatch between the quantum cascade laser and the hollow waveguide. For example the interface can be adapted to match the impedance of the quantum cascade laser to the impedance of the hollow waveguide match the laser facet loss to the laser cavity loss to improve the efficiency of the quantum cascade laser or to optimize the output power of the quantum cascade laser.

As an example of the present invention integration of THz QCLs with single mode 75 m 37 m rectangular waveguide components including horn antennas couplers and bends for operation at 3 THz were designed and fabricated using thick gold micromachining. Measurements on the isolated waveguide components exhibited fairly low loss and integration with THz QCLs was demonstrated. The successful integration of THz QCLs with micromachined waveguides on the same chip along with other passive waveguide components such as tees and couplers enables integrated THz circuits on a chip. Further this technology enables coupling between the QCL and the outside world.

The present invention is directed to the integration of a QCL with a hollow waveguide to improve the laser beam pattern with a manufacturable method. For example by coupling the QCL output into a single mode rectangular waveguide RWG the radiation mode structure will be known and the propagation manipulation and broadcast of the QCL radiation can then be entirely controlled by well established RWG techniques. Further many existing mixers are already embedded in RWG blocks. By integrating a QCL into a compatible block the QCLs can be mated more quickly with this existing technology and infrastructure thereby providing a more compact and robust system than using quasi optics. Integrating QCLs into RWGs also enables complete on chip THz circuits.

Because typical QCL frequencies are greater than 1 THz the dimensions of single mode rectangular waveguide at these wavelengths are on the order of tens of microns. While such small THz waveguides can be made by traditional metal machining traditional machining is typically expensive slow and difficult to reconcile with the electrical connections needed to support high DC bias currents required to operate a QCL embedded in such a waveguide. See P. Siegel et al. 2.5 THz GaAs Monolithic Membrane Diode Mixer 47 5 596 1999 .

Therefore the present invention can use a lithographic micromachining method to fabricate small single mode rectangular waveguide structures. Such a micromachining method has the advantage of being amenable to large scale production and can be tailored to suit the unique demands of a QCL source. The traditional rectangular waveguide method comprises fabricating two halves of a waveguide block and separately bolting them together as was recently demonstrated with similar multi layer lithographic techniques at lower frequencies. See V. Desmaris et al. All metal micromachining for the fabrication of sub millimeter and THz waveguide components and circuits 18 095004 2008 . However because most QCLs are edge emitters with a surface normal E field polarization the integrated waveguide preferably has the short wall in a direction normal to the substrate which reduces the required height but places any wafer bonds in high current areas. Because of this and to ensure good coverage over surface topography the present invention uses monolithic waveguides fabricated directly onto the laser chips.

The back wall and the top and side walls of the hollow waveguide can also be a metal such as gold or doped semiconductor. A transparent insulator such as SiOor SiN can be applied conformally to the end facet of the laser to electrically isolate the laser from the waveguide walls. The hollow waveguide is preferably a rectangular shape although other shapes can also be used. A rectangular waveguide will be used in the example devices described hereinafter. The waveguide can bend or be straight. The waveguide is preferably single mode although multi mode waveguides can be used for some applications.

Metal metal waveguided QCLs have better heat extraction and lower threshold currents than plasmon waveguide devices. However due to the impedance mismatch between the laser and free space at the end facet little power couples out of these types of devices. By lowering the impedance mismatch more power can be extracted. By changing the interface at the end facet between the laser and the waveguide this trade off can be engineered for the application at hand. By controlling the impedance mismatch the performance of the laser can be altered in important ways. For example the interface can be adapted to match the impedance of the quantum cascade laser to the impedance of the hollow waveguide. Complete impedance matching can be used to enable broad band tuning of the QCL output with external feedback such as provided by an external cavity. Further the impedance mismatch can be tuned to maximize the efficiency of the laser typically done by setting the facet loss equal to the cavity loss or to increase the output power of the QCL by lowering the facet reflectivity. Since the waveguide of a metal metal THz QCL is essentially a microstripline microwave techniques can be borrowed to engineer the impedance mismatch between the QCL and a metallic hollow rectangular waveguide. The impedance between the QCL and the embedding entrance end of the rectangular waveguide can be engineered in various ways for example by creating a stepped fin line structure with wave transformers or by tapering the laser facet as it enters the waveguide as will be further described below.

QCLs can provide lots of power and very narrow linewidths which are both excellent for spectroscopy communication or RADAR SAR type applications. Unfortunately even though the lasers have an intrinsic bandwidth greater than 300 GHz a stand alone laser emits only a specific frequency or a few frequencies that can typically only be tuned by a few GHz. A typical approach to tune lasers used at shorter NIR and VIS wavelengths is to use an external cavity to tune the laser. This requires that at least one of the laser facets be impedance matched or nearly matched so that light can leave the laser and be focused back into the laser so that the external cavity will define the laser frequency. Because the mode shape in THz QCLs does not approximate a Gaussian standard thin films applied to the facets will not provide a perfect antireflection coating. In addition since the laser facet is small compared to a wavelength much of the light that is coupled out will not couple back into the laser. Thus stand alone THz QCLs do not couple well to external cavities. For metal metal waveguides these problems are much worse. Both problems can be addressed by coupling the QCL to a rectangular waveguide. With a proper interface geometry the impedance can be matched so there will be no reflection and the out coupling and in coupling will be much better because a horn antenna attached to the waveguide can be much larger than the facet and also larger than a wavelength and can be engineered to provide a good beam shape. Thus a waveguide coupled QCL is a perfect device for external cavity tuning the QCL. This enables tuning of the emission frequency over the whole gain bandwidth of the laser.

In addition this integration enables the use of the QCL gain medium as an amplifier. If either of the end facets of the QCL is impedance matched the resulting loss of feedback will prevent lasing but any radiation within the wide frequency bandwidth of the gain that is injected and propagates through the structure will be amplified. There are other sources of THz radiation that are broadly tunable but they produce a very small amount of THz power. By impedance matching one or both ends of the QCL and then focusing light from an external weak source into the waveguide on one end the light will propagate through the active region and be amplified and emitted out the other end. By tuning the weak source and amplifying it with the QCL active material significantly higher powers of tunable THz radiation can be generated.

The fabrication of a rectangular waveguide can use multi layer lithography. See Nordquist et al. Design Fabrication and Characterization of Metal Micromachined Rectangular Waveguides at 3 THz 2008 . 2008 and Rowen et al. Multi layer metal micromachining for THz waveguide fabrication 7590 759009 2010 which are incorporated herein by reference. A schematic end view illustration of an exemplary fabrication method is shown in . Each layer of the fabrication method comprises depositing a seed metal creating a mold in photoresist and electroplating metal into the mold to fill the openings in the resist. The fabrication method can be applied to any relatively planar surface. As shown in an electrically conducting seed layer is deposited on a substrate to facilitate the subsequent buildup of the waveguide side walls. For the purposes of creating the waveguide the substrate can be any material e.g. glass silicon or GaAs . For example fully integrated waveguides can be fabricated on GaAs substrates. Stand alone waveguides can be fabricated on a bare silicon substrate. The seed layer is conductive and can range in thickness from a few tens of nanometers to microns. For example the seed layer can be a layered stack of titanium and gold. To provide good adhesion and low waveguide losses the seed layer can be 1 micron of gold on top of 20 nm of titanium. Next a first photoresist layer is deposited on the seed layer. The photoresist can be a negative or positive photoresist. A lithographic process can be used to pattern the photoresist to provide openings for a side wall mold. Patterning the first photoresist layer defines the height and directionality of the waveguide side walls and also provides a platform for the second lithographic step. For example the height of the side walls can be 30 40 m. Longer wavelengths require larger waveguides with higher side walls. The impedance can be tuned by changing the height and width of the waveguide. As shown in the side wall material can be electrodeposited into openings in the photoresist mold. For example the deposited waveguide material can be gold. A gold sulfite chemistry can be used for the electroplating process comprising a separate make up replenisher and brightener. As shown in a second seed layer can be deposited on the planarized first layer. A waveguide lid can be defined by patterning a second photoresist layer and electroplating the lid layer into the opening in the patterned photoresist layer. As shown in the photoresist layers and and the second seed layer can be removed to provide a hollow channel within the rectangular waveguide . Removing the photoresist from the outside of the waveguide after electroplating is straight forward. Resist removal from inside of the waveguide can be more difficult. Therefore release holes visible in can be provided along the length of the waveguide lid to enable removal of the resist from the inside of the waveguide channel. Alternatively some resists can be used that do not require release holes even for small dimensions. A solvent can be used for stripping the resist inside of the waveguide. Mega sonic agitation can be applied to the solvent to help strip the resist throughout the entire length of the waveguide channel.

Rectangular waveguides have not been extensively studied and characterized for frequencies much above 1 THz. Therefore the free space coupling characteristics of empty stand alone waveguides were examined before integrating the waveguides with lasers. Single mode 75 m 37 m rectangular waveguides and components including horn antennas couplers and bends for operation at about 3 THz were designed and fabricated on a bare silicon substrate. These waveguides were designed to couple to free space using H plane horn antennas on both ends of the guides. By using identical horn structures on all waveguide variations the measured differences of THz propagation coupled into and out of the waveguides can be related to the waveguide itself.

A waveguide structure can be designed by scaling from published or reported designs in the microwave frequency range. For the present example dimensions were determined by shrinking WR 90 X band 8.2 12.4 GHz waveguide designs by a factor of 30 to cover the 2.5 THz 3.5 THz bands. The calculated TE10 cutoff frequency was 2 THz with the TE20 and the TE01 mode cutoff at 4 THz and the TM11 mode cutoff at 4.5 THz. The initial design was simulated using perfect conductor boundary conditions with Ansoft High Frequency Structure Simulator HFSSTM . The initial design was then adjusted to provide a realistically fabricatable structure. These adjustments included adding release holes forcing any vertical edge to be straight and modifying layer widths thicknesses and setbacks to reflect fabrication limitations. The waveguide width can be modulated to minimize reflections from the release holes.

An array of empty waveguides was fabricated on a silicon substrate to obtain loss per length information. The waveguides were characterized using a molecular gas far infrared laser source FIRL . This FIRL source can generate radiation at a set of distinct lines by pumping select gasses with a COlaser with output powers up to a few 10 s of mW s depending on the frequency of operation. Each waveguide had the same number of bends but with lengths ranging from 14.2 mm to 38.6 mm. Data from the waveguides were analyzed to obtain the loss of the waveguides as a function of length. is a graph of loss vs. difference in length for two different waveguide samples at 3.1 THz triangles and 2.56 THz diamonds . Fitting a straight line to the points on the plot gives a loss of 1.4 0.15 dB mm which is equivalent to 0.14 dB . This experimental loss compares favorably to 0.2 dB at 100 GHz and 0.6 dB at 300 GHz for commercially available waveguides. Comparing waveguides with and without bends a bend loss of 0.15 0.15 dB was estimated.

While assuming a purely real metal boundary condition suffices in the microwave range there is disagreement as to whether these types of boundary conditions can be used in the 1 3 THz range. At these frequencies the surface impedance of the metal has a non negligible imaginary component given by the Drude model for metal conductivity. A simplified model for this conductivity can be adapted from Zhao 

To determine the impact of the metal conductivity the loss of a 75 m 37 m gold rectangular waveguide was calculated and simulated. Using the standard waveguide design and loss equations given by Pozar the waveguide loss calculated was 4 dB cm at 3 THz assuming the DC conductivity of gold. The simulated loss using HFSS was 6 dB cm using the DC conductivity of gold and 7 dB cm using the complex conductivity of gold. The guide wavelength was identical in all cases suggesting that perfect E boundary conditions can be used with negligible error during early parts of designs and that the complex conductivity primarily impacts loss in a predictable way. This is consistent with the observations by Lucyszyn. See S. Lucyszyn Accurate cad modeling of metal conduction losses at terahertz frequencies 180 2003 . The measured loss was a factor of two higher than the HFSS simulations which is fairly good agreement especially since the HFSS results do not take into account possible effects due to surface roughness or contamination.

The interface between the fields propagating in a laser waveguide and the fields in a hollow rectangular waveguide determines the impedance matching of the QCL to the rectangular waveguide. The effective impedance mismatch at this interface between the two separate regions has significant impact on the integrated device performance. If the impedance has a large mismatch very little power will exit the laser. While this will lead to low output powers it can also lower the threshold current and probably raise the operation temperature of the laser. If there is no mismatch there will be no feedback and lasing will cease. In this case some additional feedback mechanism such as a distributed feedback grating or an external cavity can be provided to get lasing again. A possible advantage of using an external grating for feedback is the ability to tune the laser frequency over its entire gain bandwidth. For intermediate values of the mismatch the optimal power output or the optimal efficiency can be obtained by designing the interface to go between these extremes. The impedance between the QCL and the embedding entrance end of the rectangular waveguide can be engineered in various ways. Examples of exemplary transitions are described below.

In terms of integration and device fabrication the simplest QCL WG interface is the abrupt transition wherein the end facet comprises a vertically etched wall of the laser heterostructure that is perpendicular to the laser axis. For integration with a QCL a hollow rectangular waveguide can be similarly fabricated on a GaAs substrate with a THz QCL already fabricated on the surface. As an example a laser was fabricated that was 2000 m long about 10 m tall and 65 m wide. The waveguide for the laser itself was a metal metal type waveguide which was essentially a microstripline confining the THz radiation of the active region to stay between two metal plates. The hollow channel of the rectangular waveguide was 37 m high by 75 m wide. The entire laser end facet can be inserted directly into the entrance end of the rectangular waveguide as illustrated by the example shown in . Although this example uses a vertical end facet non vertical etched facets can also be used.

Complete coupling occurs when the interface is impedance matched. The key challenge is in the transition from a high index GaAs filled parallel plate or microstrip transmission line with a characteristic impedance of 35 to an air filled rectangular waveguide with a characteristic impedance of 360 . The most practical transition from a microstripline to a rectangular waveguide is a stepped or continuously tapered ridge waveguide see inset in for a ridge waveguide cross section where the bottom of the narrow ridge couples to the tightly confined microstrip mode of the QCL. See J. Izadian and S. M. Izadian Artech House Norwood Mass. 1988 . The total height of the ridge waveguide is constant but the ridge width s in becomes shallower and wider as it tapers toward the top of the waveguide. While closed form solutions for ridged waveguides do exist because of the geometrical constraints and the desire to design a matching network waveguides were simulated to obtain an understanding of the waveguide impedance as a function of ridge gap d in and width within a waveguide of total dimensions of 75 m 37 m. shows that the ridge can be used to vary the waveguide impedance predictably from 30 to the 340 of the full height rectangular waveguide. The lowest impedances were for ridges with narrow gaps which matched the microstrip field profile well.

To simplify design and fabrication a 5 section stepped impedance transform was used for the transition. See S. B. Cohn Optimum design of stepped transmission line transformers 16 1955 . Using the approach described by Cohn the desired impedance values were determined to be 35 the microstrip line 44 79 154 277 and 340 the rectangular waveguide . Initial values of width and gap that satisfied these impedances were chosen from with each segment initially 90 at the 2.7 THz center frequency.

Though the stepped transformer interface matches the impedance well it does not take the field profiles into account particularly at the laser facet. In order to match the field profile at the laser facet a single stage transition from the laser facet to a ridge waveguide of arbitrary impedance was designed. In this method the impedance of the first stage is set by the ridge waveguide dimensions that best match the laser rather than the impedance defined in the synthesis procedure. Once the impedance of the first stage is defined the stepped impedance transformer can be used to transition from the first section of waveguide to rectangular waveguide. When this approach was taken the desired impedance values were 35 the microstrip line 70 determined through simulations of laser to waveguide 99 157 249 and 340 the rectangular waveguide .

The structure was then simulated in HFSS and optimized primarily the matching lengths for 15 dB return loss from 2.5 THz to 3.0 THz. The best dimensions for the structure are summarized in Table 1 with stage 0 as the laser and stage 5 as the rectangular waveguide. This particular design was for a laser bar 25 m wide. Interestingly the optimum lengths for the first two stages are far less than the expected g 4. Note that the ridge width s is constant in this design and only the gap d varies. In general either s or d can be varied or both s and d can be varied.

The final simulated structure is illustrated in showing the QCL comprising a top waveguide layer and end facet hollow rectangular waveguide comprising a top wall stepped ridge waveguide transition and stages 0 5. In general the stepped ridge waveguide can comprise a good electrical conductor such as a metal. To ease fabrication the ridge waveguide can be the same material as the waveguide such as gold in the present example.

The simulated return loss and sensitivity to manufacturing tolerances is shown in . In particular the design is very sensitive to the gap of the ridge waveguide section nearest the laser. The transition is less sensitive to the width while the length of the sections shifts the frequency of best match.

The simulated transmission as a function of the length of the dielectric extension into the waveguide is shown in . The maximum transmission occurs at a length of 40 m which is approximately 2 in the dielectric loaded waveguide. At the peak the facet transmission nears unity.

The expansion of the E field is shown in . The field spot size gradually grows from the confined microstrip mode of the laser to the large mode of the rectangular waveguide. There is additional complexity at the interface and within the dielectric which is not clear from the image but results in electric and magnetic fields that are locally directed along the direction of propagation in the vicinity of the interface. This elegant design has the distinct appealing advantage of requiring only a single processing step to define the waveguide transition region showing transmission of up to 98 in a very simple design.

A variety of integrations of QCL lasers and waveguide components were fabricated on a chip as examples of the present invention. All of the lasers were the same and were 2000 m long 10 m tall and 65 m wide. The internal region of the rectangular waveguide was 37 m high by 75 m wide. The variations on this chip explored the insertion position dependence waveguide length H plane and E plane bends magic tees and horns.

The pulsed light current voltage L I V relation of the integrated laser with a waveguide HS and another laser on the same chip without a waveguide NH are compared in . The sample chip was cooled in a cryostat to 4 K. The emitted THz radiation passed through a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer to measure the spectra and was detected with a Si bolometer. The response of the bolometer was calibrated at this frequency allowing an estimate of the peak power uncorrected for collection efficiency. The output powers for these two lasers were comparable to normal metal metal waveguided lasers with similar laser material and comparable with each other suggesting that the waveguides do not negatively impact power output.

A variety of components can be integrated on chip with the QCL waveguide to enable THz photonic integrated circuits as shown schematically in . The ability to make additional passive waveguide components such as splitters combiners tees couplers bends etc. with the lithographic process enables complete THz photonic integrated circuits on a chip whereby signals can be split combined and directed between multiple active components on the same chip.

For example a horn can be coupled to the open end of the waveguide opposite the quantum cascade laser . The horn can provide a nearly Gaussian far field beam pattern of the laser light extracted from the QCL which is good for coupling the QCL power to other components or for long distance propagation in free space.

Alternatively external light can be coupled from free space into the horn which can increase coupling of external light into the quantum cascade laser by orders of magnitude since the horn aperture can be large enough to collect all the incoming light. The external light coupled into the QCL can comprise return laser light that was previously emitted by the QCL . This return laser light can be used to control the frequency of the quantum cascade laser. Alternatively the external light coupled into the laser can originate from an external terahertz light source . The external terahertz light source can comprise another quantum cascade laser harmonic frequency upconverters pumped by microwave sources or other means. The external light can be coupled into and amplified by the gain medium of the quantum cascade laser .

A second hollow waveguide can be fabricated on the same substrate wherein laser light from the other end of the quantum cascade laser is coupled into the second hollow waveguide . This is a preferred arrangement when using the QCL gain medium as an amplifier or as the local oscillator for a heterodyne transceiver. In the case of an amplifier providing a one way pass of the injected radiation especially when the interfaces are impedance matched reduces or eliminates reflections that can feedback into the pumping source. In the case of a transceiver the laser emission from one end facet of the QCL can be sent to a mixer detector while the emission for the other end facet can be sent off chip to transmit signals or interrogate targets.

An active device can be provided on the same chip with the QCL waveguide wherein a waveguide couples laser light from the QCL to the active device . Alternatively the waveguide can couple external light from the active device into the quantum cascade laser . In addition waveguides can couple both the QCL light and externally generated light into the active device which can be a heterodyne receiver. If the active device is on the same chip it can be coupled to the waveguide directly without a horn as shown .

The present invention has been described as integration of a quantum cascade laser with a hollow waveguide. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

