---

title: Antibacterial S-heterosubstituted disulfides
abstract: Synthetically-derived S,S-heterodisubstituted disulfides that exhibit potent in vitro antibacterial activity against a variety of bacteria, including , methicillin-resistant and . The present invention provides compounds, methods and compositions effective to treat microbial/bacterial infections, and, especially, infections arising from bacteria which have developed resistance to conventional antibiotics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09512160&OS=09512160&RS=09512160
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09512160
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100422
---
This application is a continuation of prior filed International Application Number PCT US2008 081125 filed Oct. 24 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 982 403 filed Oct. 24 2007 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. R01AI053281 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to antibiotic compositions. More specifically this invention relates to antibacterial S heterosubstituted disulfide compounds and methods of using these compounds.

This invention addresses the severe need for new classes of antibacterial antibiotics for treatment of bacterial infections and especially infections arising from bacteria which have developed resistance to conventional antibiotics such as methicillin resistant infections of MRSA and bacterial species presenting significant health concerns due to their morbity and mortality in epidemics such as and

Antibiotic resistance is a particularly critical health concern and has increased dramatically over the past two decades. Antibiotic resistance refers to the ability of a microorganism to avoid the harmful effects of an antibiotic by destroying the antibiotic transporting it out of the cell or undergoing changes that block its effects. Frequent exposure of a microorganism to an antibiotic provides conditions favorable to the evolution of antibiotic resistance.

MRSA is a type of resistant to certain antibiotics including methicillin and the more common antibiotics such as oxacillin penicillin and amoxicillin. MRSA incidence is on the rise in the U.S. and it has now become recognized as a major community acquired pathogen.

This invention addresses the severe need for new classes of antibacterial antibiotics for treatment of methicillin resistant infections of MRSA which is of epidemic concern due to their lethality and difficulty in treating in hospitals and in the open community.

The present invention provides compounds methods and compositions effective to treat bacterial infections and especially infections arising from bacteria which have developed resistance to conventional antibiotics. These S heterosubstituted disulfide compounds synthetically derived substances prepared in our laboratory have novel chemical structures and potent in vitro antibacterial activity against MRSA. The mechanism of action of these compounds is thought to be similar based on the structural and chemical similarities to that of previously reported N thiolated beta lactams N alkylthio beta lactams which have been shown to create alkyl CoA disulfides through a thiol disulfide exchange within the cytoplasm ultimately inhibiting type II fatty acid synthesis. Given this mode of action in inhibiting fatty acid biosynthesis the antibacterial activity of the compounds as observed against and methicillin resistant would extend to a wide cross section of Gram negative and Gram positive bacteria including as well as serving as an antimicrobial against microbes such as fungi.

Each of Xand Xof compound I can be O N NH or S with Xand Xnot necessarily the same as one another. For example Xcould be O while Xis S. Additionally each Rand Rare independently alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclic. As with Xand X Rand Rneed not be the same. The compound can further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In an advantageous embodiment Xand Xare NH and Rand Rcan be one of methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl s butyl or phenyl. In a particularly advantageous embodiment Rand Rare independently propyl or phenyl.

In a further advantageous embodiment of the first aspect of the invention Xand Xare S and Rand Rcan be one of methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl s butyl or phenyl. In a particularly advantageous embodiment at least one of Rand Rare phenyl.

In a still further advantageous embodiments of the first aspect of the invention Xand Xare N and Rand Rcan be one of dimethyl diethyl diisopropyl diallyl or diisobutyl. In a particularly advantageous embodiment at least one of Rand Rare dimethyl or diallyl.

In the compound of the second aspect at least one of Xand Xis O and each Rand Rare independently alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclic. If Xand Xare both O and Rand Rare both alkyl then Rand Rare not both propyl isopropyl or butyl. For example if Ris propyl then Rcan be isopropyl or butyl but not propyl.

In an advantageous embodiment both Xand Xare O. Rand Rcan independently be methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl s butyl or phenyl. In a particularly advantageous embodiment Rand Rare independently isopropyl butyl or phenyl.

In the compound of the third aspect each of Xand Xcan independently be O N NH or S and each Rand Rare independently alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclic. However if Xand Xare both O and Rand Rare both alkyl groups then both of Rand Rare not propyl isopropyl or butyl. In other words they are not both the same alkyl group if one of Rand Rare propyl isopropyl or butyl. For example if Ris propyl then Rcan be isopropyl or butyl but not propyl. The compound can further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In a fourth aspect the present invention provides a composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a compound having the formula I RXSSXR I 

In the compound of the fourth aspect each of Xand Xcan independently be O N NH or S and each Rand Rare independently alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclic.

In a fifth aspect the present invention provides a kit comprising an S heterosubstituted disulfide and instructions for treating an infection. In an advantageous embodiment the S heterosubstituted disulfide can be any one of the compounds of the first four aspects above.

In a sixth aspect the present invention provides a method of treating or preventing a microbial infection comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a compound comprising an S heterosubstituted disulfide.

In an advantageous embodiment the method is practiced with an S heterosubstituted disulfide having the formula I RXSSXR I 

Each of Xand Xcan independently be O N NH or S and each Rand Rare independently alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclic.

In a further advantageous embodiment of the sixth aspect of the invention the microbe is a bacterium. The bacterium can be a bacterium from a genus including and . In a particularly advantageous embodiment the bacteria is methicillin susceptible methicillin resistant or . Administering can be carried out by a route selected from the group consisting of oral intravenous and topical.

In a seventh aspect the present invention provides a method of treating or preventing a bacterial infection by administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a compound having the formula I RXSSXR I 

Each of Xand Xcan independently be O N NH or S and each Rand Rare independently alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclic.

In an advantageous embodiment of the seventh the bacterium is from the genus or . In a particularly advantageous embodiment the bacteria is methicillin susceptible methicillin resistant or . Administering can be carried out by a route selected from the group consisting of oral intravenous and topical.

In a seventh aspect the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of or methicillin resistant by the step of contacting the or methicillin resistant with an effective amount of a compound comprising an S heterosubstituted disulfide.

In a eighth aspect the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of or methicillin resistant by the step of applying the S heterosubstituted disulfide to a surface that may come into contact with the or methicillin resistant

The present invention provides compounds methods and compositions effective to treat bacterial infections and especially infections arising from bacteria which have developed resistance to conventional antibiotics. These S heterosubstituted disulfide compounds synthetically derived substances prepared in our laboratory have novel chemical structures and potent in vitro antibacterial activity against MRSA. New antibacterial compounds are in urgent need particularly those effective against MRSA. The S heterosubstituted disulfides of the invention may represent a critical advance in the battle against infectious disease. It is therefore important to continue the development of these compounds and to fully evaluate and exploit their potential as a new generation of anti microbials. The compounds of the present invention also referred to herein as S S Heterodisubstituted Disulfides and S Heterosubstituted Disulfides exhibit antibacterial activity against bacteria such as methicillin resistant and

where X can be O N NH or S in any combination and R can includes the groups of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl heterocyclic such as a beta lactam or 2 oxazolidinone and so on as is presented more fully below. The compounds may or may not be symmetrical in their substitution so by way of example CHO S S OCHcould be one version of a symmetrical compound while additional compounds can be of the form CHO S S OCHCHor CHO S S NHCH thus adopting asymmetric hetero substituted groups.

The evidence indicates that the compounds block bacterial growth and replication by inhibiting fatty acid biosynthesis in the microorganism though the details of the mode of action remains to be fully elucidated. The compounds of the present invention may therefore be used to prevent alleviate or cure diseases caused by pathogens whose growth is inhibited by these compounds. The instant compounds are particularly active against bacteria and bacteria like microorganisms. They are therefore proposed for use in human and veterinary medicine for the prophylaxis and chemotherapy of local and systemic infections caused by these pathogens. As used herein the terms treat treating and treatment include therapy that alleviates one or more symptoms caused by the infection or that cures the underlying infection. As used herein the terms prevent preventing and prevention include prophylaxis complete prevention or delaying onset of the infection or delaying onset of one or more symptoms caused by the infection. Optionally the method further comprises identifying the human or non human subject as one suffering from a specific or non specific bacterial infection. The presence of bacterial infection can be determined using methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art of clinical diagnosis of disease e.g. infectious disease .

The invention further encompasses methods for inhibiting the growth of bacteria by contacting the bacteria with an effective amount of the compounds of the invention in vitro or in vivo or by applying the compound to a substrate surface likely to come in contact with the bacteria such as a work surface table surgical instrument implant or other device to be placed in or on the body i.e. foreign object to be inserted into a subject such as a stent catheter access port intravenous delivery tube heart valve dental implant electro mechanical device prosthetic device glucose sensor or stabilizing device such as orthopedic nails and pins eating or cooking utensil etc. Because of their powerful antibacterial properties the present compounds may also be used to supplement feed for animals.

In addition the compounds of the present invention that exhibit antibacterial activity may also be used as medicaments and also as substances for preserving inorganic and organic materials especially organic materials of all kinds for example polymers lubricants paints fibers leather paper timber foodstuffs and water. For example these compounds can be covalently bonded to the polymer.

The term administration and variants thereof e.g. administering a compound in reference to a compound of the invention means introducing the compound or a prodrug of the compound into the system of the animal in need of treatment. When a compound of the invention or prodrug thereof is provided in combination with one or more other active agents administration and its variants are each understood to include concurrent and sequential introduction of the compound or prodrug thereof and other agents.

The term therapeutically effective amount as used herein means that amount of active compound or pharmaceutical agent that elicits the biological or medicinal response in a tissue system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. In reference to a microbial infection an effective amount comprises an amount sufficient to kill or inhibit the growth and replication of the microbe. In some embodiments an effective amount is an amount sufficient to delay development. In some embodiments an effective amount is an amount sufficient to prevent or delay occurrence and or recurrence. An effective amount can be administered in one or more doses.

As used herein treatment refers to obtaining beneficial or desired clinical results. Beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to any one or more of alleviation of one or more symptoms diminishment of extent of infection stabilization i.e. not worsening of the state of infection preventing or delaying spread of the disease such as pathogen growth or replication preventing or delaying occurrence or recurrence of the disease delay or slowing of disease progression and amelioration of the disease state. The methods of the invention contemplate any one or more of these aspects of treatment.

A subject in need of treatment is a mammal with a microbial infection that is life threatening or that impairs health or shortens the lifespan of the mammal.

A pharmaceutically acceptable component is one that is suitable for use with humans and or animals without undue adverse side effects such as toxicity irritation and allergic response commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

A safe and effective amount refers to the quantity of a component that is sufficient to yield a desired therapeutic response without undue adverse side effects such as toxicity irritation or allergic response commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio when used in the manner of this invention.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is a carrier such as a solvent suspending agent or vehicle for delivering the compound or compounds in question to the animal or human. The carrier may be liquid or solid and is selected with the planned manner of administration in mind. Liposomes are also a pharmaceutical carrier. As used herein carrier includes any and all solvents dispersion media vehicles coatings diluents antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents buffers carrier solutions suspensions colloids and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutical active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient its use in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated.

The compounds of the present invention include all hydrates and salts of the S heterosubstituted disulfides that can be prepared by those of skill in the art. Under conditions where the compounds of the present invention are sufficiently basic or acidic to form stable nontoxic acid or base salts administration of the compounds as salts may be appropriate. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts are organic acid addition salts formed with acids which form a physiological acceptable anion for example tosylate methanesulfonate acetate citrate malonate tartarate succinate benzoate ascorbate alpha ketoglutarate and alpha glycerophosphate. Suitable inorganic salts may also be formed including hydrochloride sulfate nitrate bicarbonate and carbonate salts. When reference is made to a compound or administering a compound the recitation of the compound includes a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be obtained using standard procedures well known in the art for example by reacting a sufficiently basic compound such as an amine with a suitable acid affording a physiologically acceptable anion. Alkali metal for example sodium potassium or lithium or alkaline earth metal for example calcium salts of carboxylic acids can also be made.

The compounds of the present invention can be formulated as pharmaceutical compositions and administered to a patient such as a human patient in a variety of forms adapted to the chosen route of administration e.g. orally or parenterally by intravenous intramuscular topical or subcutaneous routes.

Thus the present compounds may be systemically administered e.g. orally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle such as an inert diluent or an assimilable edible carrier. They may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsules may be compressed into tablets or may be incorporated directly with the food of the patient s diet. For oral therapeutic administration the active compound may be combined with one or more excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets buccal tablets troches capsules elixirs suspensions syrups wafers and the like. The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that an effective dosage level will be obtained.

The tablets troches pills capsules and the like may also contain the following binders such as gum tragacanth acacia corn starch or gelatin excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate and a sweetening agent such as sucrose fructose lactose or aspartame or a flavoring agent such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry flavoring may be added. When the unit dosage form is a capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as a vegetable oil or a polyethylene glycol. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the solid unit dosage form. For instance tablets pills or capsules may be coated with gelatin wax shellac or sugar and the like. A syrup or elixir may contain the active compound sucrose or fructose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course any material used in preparing any unit dosage form should be pharmaceutically acceptable and substantially non toxic in the amounts employed. In addition the active compound may be incorporated into sustained release preparations and devices.

The active compound may also be administered intravenously or intraperitoneally by infusion or injection. Solutions of the active compound or its salts can be prepared in water or other suitable solvent optionally mixed with a nontoxic surfactant. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols triacetin and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical dosage forms suitable for injection or infusion can include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions or sterile powders comprising the active ingredient which are adapted for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable or infusible solutions or dispersions optionally encapsulated in liposomes. In all cases the ultimate dosage form must be sterile fluid and stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage. The liquid carrier or vehicle can be a solvent or liquid dispersion medium comprising for example water ethanol a polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycols and the like vegetable oils nontoxic glyceryl esters and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the formation of liposomes by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions or by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars buffers or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with several of the other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filter sterilization. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient presenting the previously sterile filtered solutions.

For topical administration the present compounds may be applied in pure form i.e. when they are liquids. However it will generally be desirable to administer them to the skin as compositions or formulations in combination with a dermatologically acceptable carrier which may be a solid or a liquid.

Useful solid carriers include finely divided solids such as talc clay microcrystalline cellulose silica alumina and the like. Useful liquid carriers include water alcohols or glycols or water alcohol glycol blends in which the present compounds can be dissolved or dispersed at effective levels optionally with the aid of non toxic surfactants. Adjuvants such as fragrances and additional antimicrobial agents can be added to optimize the properties for a given use. The resultant liquid compositions can be applied from adsorbent pads used to impregnate bandages and other dressings or sprayed onto the affected area using pump type or aerosol sprayers.

Thickeners such as synthetic polymers fatty acids fatty acid salts and esters fatty alcohols modified celluloses or modified mineral materials can also be employed with liquid carriers to form spreadable pastes gels ointments soaps and the like for application directly to the skin of the user. Examples of useful dermatological compositions which can be used to deliver the compounds of the invention to the skin are disclosed in Jacquet et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 608 392 Geria U.S. Pat. No. 4 992 478 Smith et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 559 157 and Wortzman U.S. Pat. No. 4 820 508 .

Useful dosages of the compounds of the present invention can be determined by comparing their in vitro activity and in vivo activity in animal models. Methods for the extrapolation of effective dosages in mice and other animals to humans are known to the art U.S. Pat. No. 4 938 949 Borch et al. .

Accordingly the invention includes a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the present invention as described above or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Pharmaceutical compositions adapted for oral topical or parenteral administration comprising an amount of one or more compounds effective to treat a bacterial infection are a preferred embodiment of the invention.

The following definitions are used unless otherwise described. Halo is fluoro chloro bromo or iodo. Alkyl alkoxy etc. denote both straight and branched groups but reference to an individual radical such as propyl embraces only the straight chain radical a branched chain isomer such as isopropyl being specifically referred to. Aryl denotes a phenyl radical or an ortho fused bicyclic carbocyclic radical having about nine to ten ring atoms in which at least one ring is aromatic. Heteroaryl encompasses a radical attached via a ring carbon of a monocyclic aromatic ring containing five or six ring atoms consisting of carbon and one to four heteroatoms each selected from the group consisting of non peroxide oxygen sulfur and N R wherein Ris absent or is hydrogen oxo alkyl phenyl or benzyl as well as a radical of an ortho fused bicyclic heterocycle of about eight to ten ring atoms derived therefrom particularly a benz derivative or one derived by fusing a propylene trimethylene or tetramethylene diradical thereto. Heteroalkyl encompasses the replacement of a carbon atom within an alkyl chain with a heteroatom e.g. replacement with an element other than carbon such as N S or O including both an alkyl interrupted by a heteroatom as well as an alkyl substituted by a heteroatom.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that compounds of the invention having one or more chiral center s may exist in and be isolated in optically active and racemic forms. Some compounds may exhibit polymorphism. It is to be understood that the present invention encompasses any racemic optically active polymorphic or stereoisomeric form or mixtures thereof of a compound of the invention which possess the useful properties described herein it being well known in the art how to prepare optically active forms for example by resolution of the racemic form by recrystallization techniques by synthesis from optically active starting materials by chiral synthesis or by chromatographic separation using a chiral stationary phase and how to determine antibacterial activity using the tests described herein or using other tests which are well known in the art. Specific and preferred values listed below for radicals substituents and ranges are for illustration only they do not exclude other defined values or other values within defined ranges for the radicals and substituents.

Specifically unless otherwise indicated alkyl can include for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl iso butyl sec butyl pentyl 3 pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl decyl undecyl dodecyl tridecyl tetradecyl or pentadecyl alkenyl can include vinyl 1 propenyl 2 propenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl 3 butenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 pentenyl 4 pentenyl 1 hexenyl 2 hexenyl 3 hexenyl 4 hexenyl 5 hexenyl 1 heptenyl 2 heptenyl 3 heptenyl 4 heptenyl 5 heptenyl 1 nonenyl 2 nonenyl 3 nonenyl 4 nonenyl 5 nonenyl 6 nonenyl 7 nonenyl 8 nonenyl 1 decenyl 2 decenyl 3 decenyl 4 decenyl 5 decenyl 6 decenyl 7 decenyl 8 decenyl 9 decenyl 1 undecenyl 2 undecenyl 3 undecenyl 4 undecenyl 5 undecenyl 6 undecenyl 7 undecenyl 8 undecenyl 9 undecenyl 10 undecenyl 1 dodecenyl 2 dodecenyl 3 dodecenyl 4 dodecenyl 5 dodecenyl 6 dodecenyl 7 dodecenyl 8 dodecenyl 9 dodecenyl 10 dodecenyl 11 dodecenyl 1 tridecenyl 2 tridecenyl 3 tridecenyl 4 tridecenyl 5 tridecenyl 6 tridecenyl 7 tridecenyl 8 tridecenyl 9 tridecenyl 10 tridecenyl 11 tridecenyl 12 tridecenyl 1 tetradecenyl 2 tetradecenyl 3 tetradecenyl 4 tetradecenyl 5 tetradecenyl 6 tetradecenyl 7 tetradecenyl 8 tetradecenyl 9 tetradecenyl 10 tetradecenyl 11 tetradecenyl 12 tetradecenyl 13 tetradecenyl 1 pentadecenyl 2 pentadecenyl 3 pentadecenyl 4 pentadecenyl 5 pentadecenyl 6 pentadecenyl 7 pentadecenyl 8 pentadecenyl 9 pentadecenyl 10 pentadecenyl 11 pentadecenyl 12 pentadecenyl 13 pentadecenyl 14 pentadecenyl alkoxy can include methoxy ethoxy propoxy isopropoxy butoxy iso butoxy sec butoxy pentoxy 3 pentoxy hexoxy heptyloxy octyloxy nonyloxy decyloxy undecyloxy dodecyloxy tridecyloxy tetradecyloxy or pentadecyloxy alkanoyl can include acetyl propanoyl butanoyl pentanoyl hexanoyl heptanoyl octanoyl nonanoyl decanoyl undecanoyl dodecanoyl tridecanoyl tetradecanoyl or pentadecanoyl cycloalkyl can include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl or cyclooctyl. Aryl can include phenyl indenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydronaphthyl or naphthyl. Heteroaryl can include furyl imidazolyl tetrazolyl pyridyl or its N oxide thienyl pyrimidinyl or its N oxide indolyl or quinolyl or its N oxide . Heterocyclic can include beta lactam or 2 oxazolidinone.

The terms comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of are defined according to their standard meaning. The terms may be substituted for one another throughout the instant application in order to attach the specific meaning associated with each term.

The terms isolated or biologically pure refer to material that is substantially or essentially free from components which normally accompany the material as it is found in its native state. Preferably the compound of the invention S heterosubstituted disulfides is administered in an isolated or pure form.

As used in this specification the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a microorganism includes more than one such microorganism. A reference to a cell includes more than one such cell and so forth. A reference to a compound includes more than one such compound.

The practice of the present invention can employ unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of molecular biology microbiology recombinant DNA technology electrophysiology and pharmacology that are within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature see e.g. Sambrook Fritsch Maniatis Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Second Edition 1989 DNA Cloning Vols. I and II D. N. Glover Ed. 1985 Perbal B. A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning 1984 the series Methods In Enzymology S. Colowick and N. Kaplan Eds. Academic Press Inc. Transcription and Translation Hames et al. Eds. 1984 Gene Transfer Vectors For Mammalian Cells J. H. Miller et al. Eds. 1987 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. Scopes Protein Purification Principles and Practice 2nd ed. Springer Verlag and PCR A Practical Approach McPherson et al. Eds. 1991 IRL Press each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention addresses the severe need for new classes of antibacterial antibiotics for treatment of bacterial infections and especially infections arising from bacteria which have developed resistance to conventional antibiotics such as methicillin resistant infections of MRSA and bacterial species presenting significant health concerns due to their lethality in epidemics such as and . The invention is now further described by way of the following examples which while illustrative of the invention are not intended as limitations to the scope. It should be understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application.

The target heterosubstituted disulfides are prepared by thiolation according to the following reaction 

Bioactivity was tested by agar dilution assay against and methicillin resistant Table 2 . The compounds of the invention were evaluated against and methicillin resistant bacteria strains i.e. strains ATCC 849 and ATCC 919 respectively by determining the minimum inhibitory concentration MIC g ml of each compound with respect to each strain. The MIC or minimum inhibitory concentration is the lowest concentration of antibiotic which inhibits growth of the test organism and was determined for the synthesized compounds by the agar dilution method. A control plate with a reference drug penicillin G was used as the control.

As can be seen in the table many of the synthesized compounds were as effective or more effective against MRSA than the Penicillin G control even if they were not as effective as the control against

While not intending to be bound to a particular theory the mechanism of action of these compounds is thought to be similar based on the structural and chemical similarities to that of previously reported N thiolated beta lactams N alkylthio beta lactams which have been shown to create alkyl CoA disulfides through a thiol disulfide exchange within the cytoplasm ultimately inhibiting type II fatty acid synthesis. These compounds may also be characterized as essentially stable analogues of natural disulfides obtained from garlic and onions which are fatty acid biosynthesis inhibitors. Given this mode of action in inhibiting fatty acid biosynthesis the antibacterial activity of the compounds as observed against and methicillin resistant would extend to a wide cross section of Gram negative and Gram positive bacteria including as well as fungi.

These structurally simple disulfides serve as effective antibacterials for drug resistant staph infections.

Bioactivity was tested by agar dilution assay against the live vaccine strain of using a broth dilution technique. The results of the test are presented in Table 3. As can be seen from the table most of the twenty synthesized compounds were effective against the strain at dilutions lower than the ciprofloxacin control.

All references cited in the present application are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference to the extent not inconsistent herewith.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

