---

title: Shared coil for inductive charging and hearing-aid-compliance requirements in mobile phones
abstract: A mobile communication device that is compliant with the Hearing Aid Compliance Act. The device includes a coil and circuitry that can couple, through electromagnetic induction, the output of an audio codec of the device to a hearing aid. The coil and circuitry can also be used to charge the battery of the device. The coil and circuitry can further be used, through electromagnetic induction, to transfer energy from the battery of the device to the battery of the hearing aid to charge the battery of the hearing aid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08462968&OS=08462968&RS=08462968
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08462968
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100618
---
The present disclosure relates generally to mobile communication devices. More particularly the present disclosure relates to hearing aid compliant mobile communication devices.

Legislation in the United States of America namely the Hearing Aid Compatibility HAC Act requires that certain telephones manufactured or imported in the country be compatible with telecoil equipped hearing aids a telecoil is a small coil of wire designed to improve the sound quality experienced by a hearing impaired user while using a HAC compliant telephone . The telecoil generates an electrical signal upon being subjected to a varying magnetic field produced by the HAC compliant telephone the electrical signal generated in the telecoil is transformed by the hearing aid into an acoustic signal which is provided to the user. In order for mobile communication devices to be HAC compliant they have to include special circuitry and a coil that can generate the varying magnetic field signal that is detected by the telecoil of the hearing aid. Such coils can be costly and typically take up a lot of space in the mobile communication device.

Further there is a desire to provide mobile communication devices with electromagnetic induction charging capabilities. In order to do so the mobile communication devices need to be equipped with a dedicated charge coil and related circuitry that can generate a charge current upon being subjected to an electromagnetic induction charge signal.

Improvements in HAC compliant mobile communication devices and in mobile communication devices that can be charged by electromagnetic induction are therefore desired.

Generally the present disclosure provides a method and system to couple through electromagnetic induction an electrical energy source of a mobile communication device to an electromagnetic induction charger to charge the electrical energy source or to a hearing aid to charge a battery of the hearing aid. Further the present disclosure provides a method and system to couple still through electromagnetic induction an electrical output signal of an audio codec of the mobile communication device to the hearing aid. The method and system of the present invention make use of a single coil formed in the mobile communication device to couple the mobile communication device to the electromagnetic induction charger or to the hearing aid.

In a first aspect of the invention there is provided a mobile communication device that comprises an electrical energy source a data converter to convert input data into an electrical output signal a coil and circuitry configurable to electrically connect the coil to the electrical energy source to charge the electrical energy source upon the coil being subjected to a mobile communication device electromagnetic induction charge signal the circuitry also configurable to provide the electrical output signal of the data converter to the coil the coil to produce as a function of the electrical output signal an electromagnetic induction output signal to be received by a peripheral device upon the coil being inductively coupled to the peripheral device. One example of a peripheral device is a hearing aid. In general an element is configurable to perform a function if the element is capable of performing the function the element may be configurable to perform the function under particular conditions or at particular times for example or the element may be configurable to perform the function under any conditions or at any time. The mobile communication device electromagnetic induction charge signal can generate a time varying electrical signal in the coil the circuitry can include a rectifier to convert the time varying electrical signal into a direct current electrical signal to charge the electrical energy source. The data converter can be an audio codec and the peripheral device can be a hearing aid. The circuitry can include an audio amplifier to amplify the electrical output signal of the audio codec.

The circuitry can be configurable to electrically connect the electrical energy source to the coil to provide a peripheral device electromagnetic induction charge signal to charge the peripheral device upon the peripheral device being inductively coupled to the coil. The circuitry can include a DC to AC converter to convert a direct current signal from the electrical energy source into the peripheral device electromagnetic induction charge signal.

The circuitry can include a switching device to electrically connect the coil to the electrical energy source and to electrically connect the data converter to the coil. The switching device includes a transistor which can include a field effect transistor.

The circuitry can include detection and control circuitry connected to the coil the detection and control circuit to generate a detection signal as a function of a detection of the peripheral device or of the mobile communication device electromagnetic induction charge signal the detection and control circuitry also to control the switching device as a function of the detection signal. The circuitry can include a sensor to detect the peripheral device and to detect the mobile communication device electromagnetic charge signal and detection and control circuitry connected to the sensor the detection and control circuit to generate a detection signal as a function of a detection of the peripheral device or of the mobile communication device electromagnetic induction charge signal the detection and control circuitry also to control the switching device as a function of the detection signal. The sensor can include a Hall effect sensor. The peripheral device can be a biometric monitor having recorded thereon biometric data the circuitry configurable to receive the biometric data from the biometric sensor and to store the biometric data in a memory of the device.

In a second aspect of the disclosure there is provided a method of coupling a mobile communication device to a hearing aid or to an electromagnetic induction charger the mobile communication device comprising an electrical energy source an audio codec and a coil. The method comprises detecting one of a mobile communication device electromagnetic charge signal generated by the electromagnetic induction charger and a hearing aid identification electromagnetic induction signal generated by the hearing aid upon detection of the mobile communication device electromagnetic charge signal electrically connecting the coil to the electrical energy source to provide a charge current to the electrical energy source to charge the electrical energy source the charge current being a function of an electromagnetic induction current generated in the coil by the mobile communication device electromagnetic charge signal and upon detection of the hearing aid identification electromagnetic induction signal electrically connecting the coil to the audio codec to provide an electrical output signal of the audio codec to the coil to generate an electromagnetic induction output signal to be received by the hearing aid.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments described herein. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the embodiments described herein.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to a mobile wireless communication device which can also be referred to as a mobile communication device MCD or as a mobile device. Examples of applicable MCDs include cellular phones cellular smart phones handheld wireless communication devices and the like.

The mobile device is a two way communication device with data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The mobile device also has the capability to allow voice communication. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device. To aid the reader in understanding the structure of the MCD reference will now be made to .

Shown in is a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a mobile communication device . The mobile communication device includes a number of components such as a main processor that controls the overall operation of the mobile communication device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a communication subsystem . Data received by the mobile communication device can be decompressed and decrypted by decoder operating according to any suitable decompression techniques e.g. YK decompression and other known techniques and encryption techniques e.g. using an encryption techniques such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES . The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this exemplary embodiment of the mobile communication device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Although the wireless network associated with mobile communication device is a GSM GPRS wireless network in one exemplary implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the mobile communication device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and future third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems. The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone short range communications and other device subsystems . The display can include a touch sensitive display.

Some of the subsystems of the mobile communication device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The mobile communication device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile communication device . To identify a subscriber the mobile communication device requires a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM card is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the mobile communication device and to personalize the mobile communication device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM card the mobile communication device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM RUIM card into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Message Service MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM card includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM card is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM card can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM RUIM card is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile communication device. The SIM RUIM card may store additional subscriber information for a mobile communication device as well including datebook or calendar data and recent call data. Alternatively user identification data and other data items can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The mobile communication device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile communication device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells or capacitor based power supplies may provide the power to the mobile communication device . As will be understood by the skilled worker batteries micro fuel cells capacitor based based power supplies or any other device that can produce an electrical output usable by the mobile communication device can all be referred to as electrical energy sources.

The mobile communication device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile communication device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the mobile communication device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the mobile communication device or some other suitable storage element in the mobile communication device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the mobile communication device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile communication device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events appointments and task items. The PIM can also organize and manage any voice mails recorded on the mobile communication device . A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile communication device subscriber s corresponding data items stored in or accessible by a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the mobile communication device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile communication device subscriber s office computer system.

The mobile communication device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile communication device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the mobile communication device is authorized to interface with.

The connect module includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the mobile communication device to allow the mobile communication device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile communication device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass information technology IT policy commands from the host system to the mobile communication device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the mobile communication device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile communication device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile communication device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary input output I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile communication device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile communication device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile communication device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile communication device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile communication device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile communication device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the mobile communication device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard may be an alphanumeric keyboard a telephone type keypad or both. Alternatively instead of having a keyboard keyboard functionality can be provided to the user through a touch sensitive display that may be included in the display . Other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the mobile communication device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the mobile communication device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The mobile communication device also includes a coil that can be operationally connected to the battery . That is the coil can be used as will be described below to charge the battery by electromagnetic induction upon the coil being subjected to a mobile communication device electromagnetic induction charge signal which is a time varying magnetic field. Alternatively as will also be described below the battery and the coil can be operationally connected to generate an electromagnetic induction charge signal to charge a hearing aid or more generally a peripheral device. Further the coil can also be operationally connected to an audio codec or more generally to a data converter . The audio codec is a particular type of data converter. The audio codec can convert audio data received by the communication system or stored in the mobile communication device e.g. as a voice mail message into an electrical output signal that can be provided to the coil . In turn the coil can output an electromagnetic induction signal to be received by the telecoil of a hearing aid upon the coil being inductively coupled to the telecoil of the hearing aid. The data converter can represent any type of converter that can convert data stored in or transiting through the mobile communication device into an electrical output signal which can be used to generate an electromagnetic induction signal to be coupled to a peripheral device. The appellation peripheral device includes any device that can be coupled to the mobile communication device through electromagnetic induction. As such peripheral devices include amongst others induction coil equipped hearing aids biometric monitors or sensors that is devices that can measure and store biometric data of a user pulse rate breathing rate etc in a memory of the mobile communication device portable electronic devices locks e.g. door locks etc.

At the coil is shown as connected to the main processor which is itself connected to the audio codec the data converter and to the battery via the battery interface . The depiction in is to be understood as meaning that any flow of any type of signal between the coil and the audio codec the data converter and the battery can be controlled by the main processor . For example the main processor can control the flow of an electromagnetic induction charge signal to charge a peripheral device. Further details regarding the control of signals flowing between the coil and the audio codec the data converter and the battery will be presented below.

The scope of the present disclosure encompasses inductively coupling that is coupling through electromagnetic induction through a coil formed in a mobile communication device the output signal of an audio codec or data converter also formed in the mobile communication device to a hearing aid or to a peripheral device. The scope of the present disclosure also encompasses inductively coupling an electromagnetic induction charge signal to a battery of the mobile communication device through a coil formed in a mobile communication device to charge the battery of the mobile communication device. The scope of the present disclosure further encompasses inductively coupling an electromagnetic induction charge signal from a mobile communication device through a coil formed therein to a hearing aid or peripheral device to charge a battery of the hearing aid or peripheral device. Further yet the scope of the present disclosure encompasses inductively coupling through a coil formed in a mobile communication device a data signal communication signal from a peripheral device to the mobile communication device. Furthermore the present disclosure encompasses two way communication between a mobile communication device and a peripheral device through inductive coupling. That is a communication signal can flow from the peripheral device to the mobile communication device or from the mobile communication device to the peripheral device. As will be understood by the skilled worker such two way communication between a mobile communication device and a peripheral device can be limited to a short spacing between the mobile communication device and the peripheral device and to low data transfer speeds however the close proximity required for such two way communication makes for fairly secure data transfer.

The dotted arrow indicates that the mobile communication device can be coupled through its coil to the hearing aid to provide the hearing aid an electromagnetic induction charge signal to charge the battery of the hearing aid . The dotted arrow indicates that the mobile communication device can be coupled through its coil to the electromagnetic induction charger to receive from the electromagnetic induction charger an electromagnetic induction charge signal to charge the battery of the mobile communication device .

The circuitry is configurable to connect electrically the coil to the battery to charge the battery . For example upon the electromagnetic induction charger of being activated it produce a mobile communication device electromagnetic induction charge signal that includes a time varying magnetic field. Upon the mobile communication device being placed adjacent the electromagnetic induction charger such that the coil of the mobile communication device is exposed to the time varying magnetic field the coil will develop therein a time varying current and voltage. In this scenario the switching device can be set either manually by the user through a user interface of the mobile communication device or automatically by a detection and control circuitry of the mobile communication device to provide the time varying current generated in the coil to the rectifier which can provide at its output a direct current DC signal to the battery to charge the battery .

The circuitry is also configurable to provide an output signal of the audio codec to the coil . The electrical output signal of the audio codec can be input into an audio amplifier to amplify the electrical output signal. In this scenario the switching device can be set either manually by the user through a user interface of the mobile communication device or automatically by a detection and control circuitry of the mobile communication device to provide the amplified electrical output signal to the coil . As an audio signal input into the audio codec will vary in time so will the electrical output signal produced by the audio codec . As such the coil will generate a time varying magnetic field signal in accordance with that is as a function of the time varying electrical output signal of the audio codec . The time varying magnetic field generated at the coil can be electromagnetically coupled to the hearing aid by bringing the mobile communication device next the hearing aid which is equipped with a telecoil and other circuitry such as for example an amplifier audio processing circuitry and a speaker transducer to output an acoustic signal to the user.

The circuitry is also configurable to electrically connect the battery to the coil in order to generate a time varying magnetic charge signal that can be used to charge a battery of the hearing aid upon the hearing aid being subjected to the charge signal in question. In this scenario a DC output of the battery is provided to the inverter that transforms the DC output of the battery into an AC signal. The switching device can be set either manually by the user through a user interface of the mobile communication device or automatically by a detection and control circuitry of the mobile communication device to provide the AC signal in question to the coil which will generate the time varying magnetic charge signal that can be coupled to the hearing aid to charge a battery of the hearing aid . As will be understood by the skilled worker the hearing aid has to be equipped with a coil and battery charging circuitry to effect such a hearing aid battery charging scenario.

For example upon the sensor and the detection and control circuitry detecting a mobile communication device electromagnetic induction charge signal generated for example by the electromagnetic induction charger of the detection and control circuitry can automatically set the switching device to electrically connect the coil to the rectifier and to activate the rectifier . By doing so the detection and control circuitry enables the rectifier to rectify the time varying electrical signal produced in the coil into a DC current that charges the battery or any other suitable electrical energy source used to power the mobile communication device . Use of a rectifier is just one example of charging circuitry. The concept herein is not limited to the use of any particular charging circuitry or to any particular configuration of rectifier.

In another example upon the user of the mobile communication device answering a call or placing a call and upon the sensor and the detection and control circuitry detecting the presence of the hearing aid the detection and control circuitry can automatically set the switching device to electrically connect the coil to the audio amplifier and to activate the audio amplifier . By doing so the detection and control circuitry enables the coil to couple the time varying magnetic field generated in the coil by the electrical output of the audio amplifier to the telecoil of the hearing aid .

In yet another example upon the sensor and the detection and control circuitry detecting the presence of the hearing aid and the user not placing or receiving a call within a pre determined time period after the detection of the hearing aid and not using any audio output to the mobile communication device the detection and control circuitry can set the switching device to electrically connect the coil to the inverter and activate the inverter . By doing so the detection and control circuitry enables the inverter to transform a DC signal from the battery into a the time varying electrical that can be used to charge the battery of the hearing aid . To charge the hearing aid in this way a cradle or support that can receive the mobile communication device and the hearing aid can be used. The cradle or support is such that the coil and the telecoil of the hearing aid are optimally aligned such as to produce optimum electromagnetic inductive coupling. In addition to or instead of a cradle complementary alignment features can be formed on each of the mobile communication device and the hearing aid or peripheral device . In some embodiments a strong permanent magnet in the mobile communication device or the hearing aid can be used to facilitate optimum alignment.

Upon the coil being placed adjacent the electromagnetic induction charger of the ADC outputs a pre determined signal to the micro processor which in turn will recognized the pre determined signal to be associated with the charger . The micro processor can then set the switching device to provide the signal generated in the coil to the rectifier turn on the rectifier and if need be turn off the inverter and audio amplifier both shown at thereby enabling charging of the battery .

Further in some embodiments the hearing aid or peripheral device can output a low power time varying magnetic field signal indicative of the hearing aid or peripheral device that can be detected by the coil . In such a scenario the ADC outputs another pre determined signal that is recognized by the micro processor as being that associated with the hearing aid or peripheral device . In the case where it is the hearing aid that is detected the micro processor can set the switching device to electrically connect the coil to the audio amplifier turn on the audio amplifier and if need be turn off the inverter and the rectifier . In the case where it is a peripheral device other than the hearing aid that is detected the micro processor can set the switching device to electrically connect the coil to the data converter and if need be turn off the inverter and the rectifier .

Alternatively the user can manually control the micro processor through a user interface e.g. a keyboard or touch screen of the mobile communication device in order to place or receive a telephone call while having his hearing aid electromagnetically coupled to the mobile communication device.

The user of the mobile communication device can control the micro processor through a user interface of the mobile communication device to set the switching device provide the signal generated by the inverter to the coil to turn on the inverter and if need be to turn off the rectifier and audio amplifier in order to charge the hearing aid or peripheral device .

As mentioned previously the switching device can include any suitable type of switching circuitry such as one or more transistors e.g. field effect transistors . shows an embodiment of the switching device that includes a field effect transistor .

Advantageously the present disclosure may allow a mobile communication device to provide desirable features to a user by a having a single coil that can communicate with a hearing aid or with an electromagnetic induction charger. By having a single coil to carry out those functions the mobile communication device can retain a desirable small form factor. As such a mobile communication device having a small form factor can be HAC compliant and be rechargeable by electromagnetic induction.

In the preceding description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the disclosure. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the disclosure. In other instances well known electrical structures and circuits are shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the disclosure. For example specific details are not provided as to whether the embodiments of the disclosure described herein are implemented as a software routine hardware circuit firmware or a combination thereof.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be represented as a software product stored in a machine readable medium also referred to as a computer readable medium a processor readable medium or a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein . The machine readable medium can be any suitable tangible medium including magnetic optical or electrical storage medium including a diskette compact disk read only memory CD ROM memory device volatile or non volatile or similar storage mechanism. The machine readable medium can contain various sets of instructions code sequences configuration information or other data which when executed cause a processor to perform steps in a method according to an embodiment of the disclosure. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other instructions and operations necessary to implement the described disclosure can also be stored on the machine readable medium. Software running from the machine readable medium can interface with circuitry to perform the described tasks.

The above described embodiments of the disclosure are intended to be examples only. Alterations modifications and variations can be effected to the particular embodiments by those of skill in the art without departing from the scope of the disclosure which is defined solely by the claims appended hereto.

