---

title: Memory array with graded resistance lines
abstract: A memory array with graded resistance lines includes a first set of lines intersecting a second set of lines. A line from one of the sets of lines includes a graded resistance along a length of the line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08587985&OS=08587985&RS=08587985
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08587985
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101001
---
This invention has been made with government support. The government has certain rights in the invention.

As the use of digital data increases the demand for faster smaller and more efficient memory structures increases. One type of memory structure that has recently been developed is a crossbar memory array. A crossbar array includes a first set of lines which intersect a second set of parallel lines. Programmable memory elements configured to store digital data are placed at intersections between the first set of lines and second set of lines. A crossbar array can be used for a variety of electronic circuit applications such as a memory array.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

As mentioned above the process of accessing a memory element within a crossbar array involves the application of a voltage to the memory element. This creates a voltage drop across the memory element. The voltage supplied by a voltage supply will be divided across the resistance of the memory element and the resistance of the lines connecting the voltage supply to the memory element.

As used herein a line will refer to any path for applying a voltage to a memory element. Examples of such a line will include wires conductive traces and the like.

The resistance of the lines is dependent upon a number of variables including the material cross sectional dimensions and length of the lines. If the line is uniform along its length length will be the variable that determines resistance.

Therefore because each memory element is located at a different length along the line from where the voltage is applied the voltage will be divided between the lines and the memory element differently for each memory element. Thus each memory element will experience a slightly different voltage drop. This discrepancy can cause performance issues during operation of the memory array.

In light of this and other issues the present specification discloses a system and method for reducing the discrepancy in the voltage dropped across different memory elements within a crossbar memory array. This reduction in the discrepancy in voltage drop across different memory elements is realized by grading the resistance of the lines connected to each memory element.

As used herein and in the appended claims the term graded resistance line will refer to a line with one or more physical characteristics that vary along its length so as to provide a gradient or graded resistance along the length of the line that is in addition to the natural increase in resistance that occurs in a uniform line over its length alone.

According to certain illustrative examples a crossbar array has lines with graded resistance. The graded resistance can be achieved for example by adjusting the width of the lines the thickness of the lines or the composition of the lines. The portion of a graded resistance line that has the highest resistance is connected to the circuitry that will be applying a voltage to memory elements along that line. The graded resistance line is configured such that the resistance of the line decreases along a direction away from where the voltage supply is connected to the memory array. As will be described in more detail below this reduces the discrepancy in voltage dropped across memory elements closer to where the voltage is applied and memory elements farther away from where the voltage is applied.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present apparatus systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment but not necessarily in other embodiments. The various instances of the phrase in one embodiment or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Referring now to the figures is a diagram showing an illustrative crossbar memory array . According to certain illustrative examples the crossbar array includes a set of row lines which are generally in parallel. Additionally a set of column lines is generally perpendicular to and intersects the row lines . Programmable memory elements are disposed at the intersections between a row line and a column line .

According to certain illustrative examples the programmable memory elements may be memristive devices. Memristive devices exhibit a memory of past electrical stimuli. For example a memristive device may include a memristive matrix material that contains mobile dopants. These dopants can be moved within a matrix to dynamically alter the electrical operation of the memristive device.

The motion of dopants can be induced by the application of a programming condition such as an applied electrical voltage across a suitable matrix. The programming voltage generates a relatively high electric field through the memristive matrix and alters the distribution of dopants. After removal of the electric field the location and characteristics of the dopants remain stable until the application of another programming electric field. For example by changing the dopant configurations within a memristive matrix the electrical resistance of the device may be altered. The memristive device is read by applying a lower reading voltage which allows the internal electrical resistance of the memristive device to be sensed but does not generate a high enough electric field to cause significant dopant motion. Consequently the state of the memristive device may remain stable over long time periods and through multiple read cycles.

According to certain illustrative examples the crossbar array may be used to form a non volatile memory array. Each of the programmable memory elements is used to represent one or more bits of data. Although individual row lines and column lines in are shown with rectangular cross sections crossbars may also have square circular elliptical or more complex cross sections. The lines may also have many different widths diameters aspect ratios and or eccentricities. The crossbars may be nanolines sub microscale lines microscale lines or lines with larger dimensions.

In some cases the memory elements may be connected to the row lines or column lines through vias between the electrodes of the memory elements. These vias may pass through an interlayer dielectric material positioned between the memory elements and the lines. A dielectric material inhibits the flow of electric current.

According to certain illustrative examples the crossbar architecture may be integrated into a Complimentary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS circuit or other conventional computer circuitry. Each individual bit line may be connected to the CMOS circuitry by a via . The via may be embodied as an electrically conductive path through the various substrate materials used in manufacturing the crossbar architecture. This CMOS circuitry can provide additional functionality to the memristive device such as input output functions buffering logic configuration or other functionality. Multiple crossbar arrays can be formed over the CMOS circuitry to create a multilayer circuit.

To select a target memory element within the memory array a voltage is selectively applied to a row line by a voltage supply . This row line may be referred to as the selected row line. With the application of the voltage to the row line each memory element along that line becomes half selected. To fully select one of the memory elements along the selected row line a voltage of opposite polarity is applied to the column line connected to the target memory element by a voltage supply . The total voltage drop across the target memory element will then be a sum of both voltages .

The voltage supply is often a fixed voltage supply. Therefore the value of the voltage cannot be adjusted. The reason for using a fixed voltage supply is that all of the circuitry within an electronic device is typically designed to operate on a specific voltage. This allows all of the circuitry to draw power from the same source and reduce the need for transformers to convert voltage levels from one level to another level.

As will be described in more detail below the sum of the voltages will be divided between the target memory element and the lines running between the memory element and the voltage supply . A higher resistance in the lines connecting the voltage supply to the memory elements will cause more of the voltage to be applied across the lines and less across the memory elements . The resistance of a line is a function of the length of that line. Consequently memory elements which are farther away from the voltage supplies will experience a smaller voltage drop than the memory elements that are closer to the voltage supplies. Thus the voltage applied to memory element A will be greater than the voltage applied to memory element B .

In accordance with Kirchhoff s Voltage Law the voltage across each memory element and the lines connecting to that memory element will be equal. However that applied voltage will be divided differently between different memory elements . The voltage applied by the voltage supply will be divided between the target memory element and the lines connecting to that target memory element . A greater resistance of the lines connecting to the target memory element will result in more voltage being dropped across those lines and less across the memory element . As mentioned above the resistance of a line depends in part on the length of that line. Thus because memory element is farther away from the voltage supply more voltage will be dropped across the lines leading to memory element and less voltage will be dropped across memory element itself.

The denominator in equation 2 is greater than the denominator in equation 1. Thus the voltage drop V across memory element is less than the voltage drop V across memory element . In the case that the voltage applied to a memory element is 5 volts the resistance value of a memory element is 100 ohms and the resistance of each line segment is 5 ohms then the voltage drop across memory element would be 4.54 v and the voltage drop across memory element would be 4.00 volts. Thus there is a discrepancy of 0.54 v in the voltage dropped across memory element and memory element . The values used as an example are for illustration purposes and are not necessarily practical values which may be used by a memory array embodying principles described herein.

As mentioned above this variation in voltage drop across the different memory elements within a memory array can cause performance issues. In light of this issue the present specification discloses the use of graded resistance lines. These graded resistance lines reduce the discrepancies between the voltage drop across different memory elements within a memory array.

The graded resistance lines are illustrated as having a graded width. A line with a greater cross sectional area will be less resistive than a line of the same composition but having a smaller cross sectional area. Thus the smaller width regions of the illustrated lines have a higher resistance and the greater width regions of the illustrated lines have a lower resistance. The more resistive regions of the lines are closer to the voltage supplies . The resistance of the lines gradually decreases along the length of the lines in a direction away from the voltage supplies . This effectively reduces the discrepancy in voltage dropped across a memory element between memory elements which are closer to the voltage supplies and memory elements which are farther away from the voltage supplies.

In one example in order to provide a more compact crossbar array the graded resistance lines may alter in direction between adjacent lines. A voltage supply is then connected to both sides of the crossbar array. The graded resistance lines going in one direction are then be connected to a first voltage supply while the graded resistance lines going in an opposite direction are then connected to a second voltage supply on the opposite side of the memory array.

In some cases a memory array may be built as a three dimensional memory array. This is done by stacking two dimensional memory arrays on top of one another. The conductive lines that are connected between the different layers may also be graded. This will reduce the discrepancy between the voltage drop across memory elements in different layers.

In conclusion by grading the resistance of the lines forming a crossbar memory array the performance of that memory array is increased. This is because grading the resistance of the lines reduces the discrepancy in voltage applied to different memory elements within the memory array.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe embodiments and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

