---

title: Component model for analytic applications supporting parameterization
abstract: In an aspect there is provided a method. The method may include defining an application to include at least one component, the at least one component including at least one parameter; executing the application, wherein the at least one parameter receives a value to enable the application to produce data, wherein the at least one parameter is received from at least one of another component, a user interface, or another program; and providing the produced data to a user interface. Related apparatus, systems, techniques, and articles are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671391&OS=08671391&RS=08671391
owner: SAP AG
number: 08671391
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20101207
---
Analytic applications typically use abstractions shortened records or other aggregate forms of transactional business data. Business data may include key figure data which may include data that can be aggregated using an appropriate function. For example sales totals for a particular time period can be summed or a minimum or maximum daily sales total can be calculated. In another example pricing information can be extracted from larger transactional data structures and then stored in a more efficient aggregate table for reporting and analysis. In some instances new key figure data can be derived from existing key figure data by for example a calculation e.g. calculating a margin based on a purchase process or a restriction e.g. determine open sales given a restriction of sales data to sales orders with a status of in progress . Semantically related key figures may also be grouped thus forming a key figure structure.

Moreover key figure data may be grouped by one or more items of information in which case the grouping can be referred to as characteristic data. For example sales totals can be grouped by sales person sales region product etc. and aggregated sales totals can be calculated for each characteristic grouping. Analytic applications may include key figure data and characteristic data both of which may be used during reporting and analysis of the underlying data.

In one aspect there is provided a method. The method may included defining an application to include at least one component the at least one component including at least one parameter executing the application wherein the at least one parameter receives a value to enable the application to produce data wherein the at least one parameter is received from at least one of another component a user interlace or another program and providing the produced data to a user interface.

Articles of manufacture are also described that comprise machine executable instructions permanently stored on machine readable media e.g. non transitory computer readable media which when executed by a machine causes the machine to perform the operations described herein. Similarly computer systems are also described that may include a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory may temporarily or permanently store one or more programs that cause the processor to perform one or more of the operations described herein.

In some implementations one or more of the features described herein including one or more of the following may be included in the method system and or articles of manufacture described herein. The application may comprise an analytic application configured to analyze multidimensional data stored in a multidimensional database storing data in at least one of a star structure and a snowflake structure. The at least one component may embed another component wherein the another component includes at least other parameter defined at run time. A repository may store the at least one component and may be configured to enable the analytical application to select from a plurality of components. The application may comprise an analytical application including a plurality of components configured to model a calculated key figure a restricted key figure and a key figure structure. The at least one component may comprises a set of code providing a function called via an application programming interface to enable access to the at least one parameter of the at least one component. The at least one parameter may be defined to include a name a result type and a processing type.

The details of one or more variations of the subject matter described herein are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the subject matter described herein will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Analytic applications are becoming increasingly complex and as a consequence reusable components which adhere to a given component model or definition may be used to facilitate the building of these analytic applications. Examples of such components include calculated key figures restricted key figures and key figure structures. The component may be built such that the component includes at least one parameter providing a placeholder for a value determined only at run time. For example at least one of the parameters may be provided at the run time of the analytic application via a user interface and or one of the parameters provided at run time programmatically. For the latter the component may include a set of code e.g. executable instructions for performing a task function called via an application programming interface to enable access to the parameters of the component . One or more components may be combined to build e.g. form compose generate etc. an analytic application which when processed enables determining data such as key figure data and characteristic data. To further illustrate by example at the run time of an analytic application a user may be prompted at a user interface to provide parameters for components of the analytic application. The parameters configure the components and thus the analytic application including those components.

In some implementations the component is re useable e.g. the component may be reused in different analytic applications which may enhance flexibility when building analytic applications. By using parameters in a component the reusability may be in some implementations increased considerably. For example a calculated key figure component calculating an amount of profit may be reused for subsidiaries in different countries if the currency is provided at run time as a parameter.

The component may also be embedded in another component enabling the other component to have access to the parameters of the embedded component. Specifically the embedding component may have read access to parameters and have write access to parameters of type user input. In this regard write access means that the value of the parameter can be provided upon embedding i.e. at design time when the analytic application is assembled from components. For example if a user input parameter is provided with a value during embedding at design time the user input parameter will not be presented for user input at the startup of the analytic application.

When a component is embedded the embedded component so that it can be used by another component the embedding component the parameters of the embedded component may be reused in the embedding component. For example a parameter of a calculated key figure component e.g. a parameter representing a currency can be reused by a key figure structure component embedding this calculated key figure component so that at run time the currency parameter is used in both the calculated embedded key figure component and the embedding key figure structure component.

To further illustrate the parameters of a component may be characterized by a name a label a result type e.g. a text a number a member selection for a specific characteristic and the like and or a processing type e.g. whether the processing is via a user input and or programmatically . At the start of the analytic application and given a processing type of user input the parameter value is determined via user input on the generated parameter screen as depicted at for example unless the parameter value has been specified upon embedding at design time as noted above. For processing type programmatically the value of the parameter is determined by for example running the set of code attached to the component.

The component may as noted include a set of code such as a coding breakout. The set of code may have read access to all parameters of the component itself and additionally write access to all parameters of the component having a processing type of programmatically providing thus the component with a specific function. For example the code set may provide a function that reads the value of a user input parameter containing a company name and reads the corresponding default currency for the company to provide a value for a parameter representing a currency to be used in the component of the analytic application.

The computer may include at least one processor and at least one memory which may include code and or data . The computer may be configured to connect and or communicate with server via communication mechanism . The user interface may be implemented as any type of interface that enables interaction with aspects of system . For example the user interface may be implemented as a browser a client application and the like.

The communication mechanism may be any type of wired and or wireless mechanism and may include alone or in any suitable combination the Internet a telephony based network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a dedicated intranet a wireless LAN an intranet a wireless network a bus a connection and or any other communication mechanism.

The server may include at least one processor such as processor and at least one memory which may include code and or data . The at least one memory may be implemented as any type of storage mechanism including random access memory read only memory FLASH memory optical disks and or any other mechanism for storing data. For example the server may be implemented as one or more of the following a computing device a computer a blade server and or any other suitable processing device.

The server may execute analytic application including the at least one component . The analytic application may obtain data from a data source such as for example a multidimensional database including multidimensional data stored in a star and or snowflake schema. The obtained data is analyzed by the analytical application including the at least one component to produce data structure which is presented at user interface . The at least one component may thus be used to model one or more aspects of the data structure e.g. a key figure a calculated key figure a restricted key figure a key figure structure and a characteristic and obtain at runtime either programmatically or via a user interface a value for at least one parameter of the component. The analyzed data may in some implementations be associated with a business transaction. For example the business transaction may be associated with sales pricing inventory sales orders and the like. The analytic application including at least one component thus provides analysis presentation and or reporting of the data structure which is presented to a user as a page at user interlace .

The data structure is generated by the analytic application which is formed from the one or more parameterized components . The data structure may include transactional data being analyzed presented and or reported. For example transactional data may include sales data pricing changes sales orders financial transactions or any other business transactional data. The data structure may also include key figures characteristics and aggregated data which may be generated based on transactional data. For example the aggregated data may include one or more key figures which can store an aggregated data value associated with a group of data.

The key figures columns E F may include quantifiable values that can be aggregated using a function such as a sum a minimum value a maximum value an average value a count function and the like. The values in the key figures columns E F may include numeric values and the numeric values may be aggregated. The values of the key figures columns may include a variety of other data types as well including a type of date. In the example of the key figures correspond to quantity E and profit F although other types of key figures may be used as well.

The components described herein may be modeled e.g. configured defined etc. so that at run time of an analytic application parameters are provided to the component . For example a first component may be defined at design time to calculate a currency value on a given date for a currency value used in a key figure and a second component may be defined at design time to calculate profit across a given date range. In this example the second component may include the embedded first component for calculating currency. And at run time of analytic application at least one parameter may be provided to each component either via a user interface or programmatically e.g. using a code set or another component .

The characteristics columns A D represent classifications of the key figures columns. Specifically the characteristic columns A D may represent groupings e.g. categories subcategories etc. by which data e.g. the rows in data structure is analyzed e.g. sorted grouped and the like . In the example of the data structure may be sorted by city A country B sales person C product D although these are merely examples as other characteristics may be used as well.

The data structure may be sorted during an analysis by for example analytic application . depicts another example of data structure . Data structure depicts data structure after a sort based on the characteristic city A being Frankfurt. For example a user at user interface may select the characteristic city A Frankfurt causing an analysis of data structure by analytic application and the resulting data structure . The profit E may be calculated at run time according to one or more parameters of the components associated with a profit calculation for the key figure for profit F. Returning to the example above a first component may be used to calculate a currency value on a given date e.g. the value of a Euro on a given date . In this example the currency type Euro may be provided at run time to a component for the key figure for profit F enabling the component to proceed with the key figure calculation for profit F. As noted the subject matter described herein relates to using one or more components to model e.g. define a key figure of the data structure and or the characteristics to be used. The analytic application may be formed based on these one or more components. As noted at design time a component may be defined with one or more parameters and or code. At the run time of the analytic application using the component one or more values for the parameters of the component may be provided by a user interface e.g. by a user by another component the embedding component and or programmatically.

The key figure structure at includes two key derived by restricting the key figure revenue to certain periods of the characteristic post date. The corresponding periods for post date are obtained from the values of parameters PARA PERIOD STR  and PARA PERIOD STR  defined in component . Moreover the component may define default values for these parameters and .

At a component may be defined. The defined component may be defined at design time to include at least one parameter. The at least one parameter serves as a place holder for a value that is determined at the run time of the analytic application which includes the defined component . The value of the at least parameter may be determined at run time either programmatically via a user interface and or via another component. For example a component may be defined as depicted at .

At an application such as analytic application may be defined to include at least one of the components defined at . The analytic application including the component provide at run time an analyzed data structure as depicted at . Moreover the plurality of components may be selected from a repository storing existing components to enable forming the analytic application. For example the component for a key figure structure may be formed based on the key figures and characteristics of the multidimensional data source and or by embedding another reusable component such as components representing restricted or calculated key figures. At design time parameters may also defined to receive values later at run time by a user and or programmatically. The parameters may also be used to restrict key figures. For example when doing a sales analysis comparing the current month with some month in the past a key figure component representing sales numbers might be restricted to a certain month using a parameter. Thus the comparison month can be chosen by the user at the start of the analytic application .

At at least one parameter is received at run time for the defined component. When this is the case the application is run e.g. executed . The at least one parameter receives a value to enable the application to produce data. The at least one parameter is received from at least one of another component a user interface or another program. For example the at least one component which can be executed started represents an analytic application . By executing starting the component s the run time is invoked. The run time at server analyzes the analytic application and any corresponding components assembles the information for the parameters to be presented at user interlace based on the defined parameters of the components launches the parameters page see e.g. processes user input s for these parameters and performs the corresponding data analysis e.g. data selection restriction calculations analytics reporting and the like to generate the analytical data structure presented to the user as depicted at . The analytic application analyzes the data which is then provided at to a user interface for presentation.

Referring again to at the run time of analytic application a page such as pages or may be presented at user interface . The page may allow a user to enter values for a parameter of component . As noted above with respect to a user may type in the values Jan. 1 2009 to Dec. 31 2009 at and the value Previous Year at . Once OK is selected the user interface provides those parameter values to the component at which time the analytic application analyzes the data structure based on the component and run time parameter values.

Various implementations of the subject matter described herein may be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations may include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and may be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the term machine readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described herein may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user may provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices may be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user may be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user may be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described herein may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user may interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

Although a few variations have been described in detail above other modifications are possible. For example while the descriptions of specific implementations of the current subject matter discuss analytic applications the current subject matter is applicable to other types of software and data services access as well. Moreover although the above description makes references to specific products other products may be used as well. The term set includes zero or more elements. Furthermore although the above refers to design time and run time in some implementations the activities associated with design time and run time may occur at any other time as well. In addition the logic flows depicted in the accompanying figures and described herein do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. Other embodiments may be within the scope of the following claims.

