---

title: Cantilevers with integrated piezoelectric actuators for probe microscopy
abstract: An atomic force microscopy sensor includes a substrate, a cantilever beam and an electrostatic actuator. The cantilever beam has a proximal end and an opposite distal end. The proximal end is in a fixed relationship with the substrate and the cantilever beam is configured so that the distal end is in a moveable relationship with respect to the substrate. The electrostatic actuator includes a first electrode that is coupled to the cantilever beam adjacent to the proximal end and a spaced apart second electrode that is in a fixed relationship with the substrate. When an electrical potential is applied between the first electrode and the second electrode, the first electrode is drawn to the second electrode, thereby causing the distal end of the cantilever beam to move.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321959&OS=08321959&RS=08321959
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08321959
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100809
---
This application is divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 838 547 filed Aug. 14 2007 which claimed priority on U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 837 803 filed Aug. 15 2006 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference

This application is related to the following pending U.S. patent applications and incorporates them herein by reference Ser. No. 11 405 051 filed on Apr. 17 2006 Ser. No. 11 297 097 filed on Dec. 8 2005 Publ. No. US 2006 0227845 A1 Ser. No. 11 260 238 filed on Oct. 28 2005 Publ. No. US 2007 0103697 A1 Ser. No. 11 476 625 Publ. No. US 2007 0012094 A1 filed on Jun. 29 2006 Ser. No. 11 398 650 filed on Apr. 06 2006 Publ. No. US 2006 0283338 A1 Ser. No. 11 548 005 filed on Oct. 10 2006 Ser. No. 11 548 531 filed on Oct. 11 2006 Publ. No. US 2007 0107502 A1 Ser. No. 11 552 274 filed on Oct. 24 2006 Publ. No. US 2007 0089496 A1 and Ser. No. 11 777 518 filed on Jul. 13 2007.

This invention was made with government support under contract number ECS 0348582 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to atomic force microscopy and more specifically to a cantilever actuation system employed in atomic force microscopy.

In atomic force microscopy a probe at the end of a cantilever beam is used to image the surface properties of a sample with near atomic precision. Typically an atomic force microscope AFM uses a mechanical actuator to move a sample into a position in which it interacts with the tip of a cantilever mounted probe. The cantilever beam is then caused to move up and down usually according to its resonant frequency and the tip of the probe interacts with the sample. Variations in the movement of the cantilever beam are detected by measuring movement of a light beam reflected off of the cantilever into a detector. The sample is then moved by the actuator as the surface of the sample is being imaged. Typical actuators tend to be relatively slow relative to the resonant frequency of the cantilever.

Therefore there is a need for an integrated cantilever actuator that interacts directly with a cantilever beam.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is an atomic force microscopy sensor that includes a substrate a cantilever beam and an electrostatic actuator. The cantilever beam has a proximal end and an opposite distal end. The proximal end is in a fixed relationship with the substrate and the cantilever beam is configured so that the distal end is in a moveable relationship with respect to the substrate. The electrostatic actuator includes a first electrode that is coupled to the cantilever beam adjacent to the proximal end and a spaced apart second electrode that is in a fixed relationship with the substrate. When an electrical potential is applied between the first electrode and the second electrode the first electrode is drawn to the second electrode thereby causing the distal end of the cantilever beam to move.

In another aspect the invention is an atomic force microscopy sensor that includes a substrate a cantilever beam and a piezoelectric actuator. The cantilever beam has a proximal end and an opposite distal end. The proximal end is in a fixed relationship with the substrate and the cantilever beam is configured so that the distal end is in a moveable relationship with respect to the substrate. The piezoelectric actuator includes a piezoelectric member affixed to the cantilever beam adjacent to the proximal end. When an electrical potential is applied to the piezoelectric member the piezoelectric member will deform along a predetermined dimension thereby causing the cantilever beam to bend.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

As will be described more fully below the present invention includes cantilever beam atomic force microscopy structures that employ integrated actuators. Such actuators may include electrostatic and piezoelectric actuators. Integrated actuators enable imaging with a speed that is limited by the integrated actuator rather than an external actuator. Integrated detector systems may also be employed.

As shown in one embodiment of the invention includes an atomic force microscopy sensor which includes a substrate that can be affixed to an attachment surface . A micromachined cantilever beam having a proximal end and an opposite distal end is spaced apart from the substrate . The proximal end is in a fixed relationship with the substrate through a spacer and a probe is affixed to the distal end . The cantilever beam is configured so that the distal end is in a moveable relationship with respect to the substrate . An electrostatic actuator controls displacement of the distal end of the cantilever beam . The electrostatic actuator includes a first electrode that is coupled to the cantilever beam adjacent to the proximal end and a spaced apart second electrode that is affixed to the substrate . When an electrical potential is applied between the first electrode and the second electrode the first electrode is drawn to the second electrode thereby causing the distal end of the cantilever beam to move upwardly. If an electrode is applied to a conductive substrate or cantilever an insulating layer should be deposited before the deposition of the electrode.

The cantilever beam can be directly surface micromachined on the substrate which can be formed from a material such as a silicon wafer or it can be bonded to the substrate . The electrodes and can be formed by deposition and patterning of a thin metal film. The space between the cantilever beam and the substrate can be adjusted to have adequate probe displacement range for a give AFM application. Typically the gap would be between 0.1 m and 10 m. The displacement of the probe can be measured in one of several ways including the beam bounce method in which a light beam is bounced off of the cantilever beam and a detector not shown determines the amount of displacement based on the angle of the reflected beam.

As shown in one embodiment includes a capacitive sensing element that provides feedback regarding the displacement of the position of the cantilever beam . The capacitive sensing element includes a third electrode that is coupled to the cantilever beam and a fourth electrode that is affixed to the substrate that forms a capacitor. The space between the third electrode and the fourth electrode acts as a dielectric which varies in thickness as the distance between the cantilever beam and the substrate changes. This causes the capacitance of the capacitive sensing element to be representative of the distance between the third electrode and the fourth electrode which is indicative of the displacement of the distal end of the cantilever beam .

As shown in a sealing membrane such as a PECVD deposited nitride or oxide layer or a polymer film which can be deposited and patterned may be placed between the cantilever beam the substrate to define a chamber therebetween. The chamber is filled with a non conductive gas e.g. air and the sealing membrane prevents liquids from entering the chamber . This embodiment may be placed in a vessel and used to measure features of a sample in a conductive or dielectric liquid . A passage may be drilled into the chamber . The passage allows application of a gas to the chamber to create a positive pressure in the chamber relative to a liquid or other fluid into which the sensor is placed.

As shown in the substrate may be made of a transparent material. This allows placement of a diffraction grating on the substrate . A reflective surface is then disposed on the cantilever beam in a location so that when a beam of electromagnetic radiation is directed to the reflective surface a reflected beam interacts with the diffraction grating so as to form a diffraction pattern that is indicative of a displacement between the cantilever beam and the substrate .

In one embodiment as shown in the second electrode may be patterned to form a diffraction grating and the reflective surface may also act as the first electrode thereby making a combined actuator and displacement sensor.

As shown in in one embodiment the cantilever beam is affixed directly to an attachment surface and a frame depends from a portion of the cantilever beam . The frame includes a longitudinal structure that is affixed to the cantilever beam and rigid beam that extends laterally from the longitudinal structure . The rigid beam is spaced apart from the cantilever beam and defines a gap therebetween. A first electrode is placed on the cantilever beam and a second electrode is disposed on the rigid beam . When no voltage is applied to first electrode and the second electrode the cantilever beam is not displaced. However when a voltage is applied to first electrode and the second electrode the cantilever beam is displaced in a downward direction.

As shown in the frame may be applied the side of the cantilever beam opposite of the probe to allow the cantilever beam to be pulled upwardly when a voltage is applied between the first electrode and the second electrode . This embodiment also facilitates optical interferometric displacement detection if a portion of the cantilever beam is transparent and the first electrode is patterned as a diffraction grating.

As shown in a frame can be affixed to the cantilever beam so that attraction between the first electrode and the second electrode causes the cantilever beam to deflect away from the frame .

As shown in the embodiment shown in may be used with an optical displacement sensor such as a FIRAT type membrane mounted probe mounted on the distal end of the cantilever beam . A probe is mounted on the membrane type optical displacement sensor and the sensor includes a reflective surface and a diffraction grating mounted on a membrane that is spaced apart from the distal end of the cantilever beam . The diffraction grating allows sensing of probe displacement using a reflected optical beam .

As shown in the cantilever beam can be a V shaped structure that includes a first leg and a spaced apart second leg . This embodiment may be used in torsion modes for lateral force imaging. Both legs are coupled to the substrate . The electrostatic actuator comprises a first member that is coupled to the first leg and a second member that is coupled to the second leg . The first member can drive movement of the first leg independently from movement of the second leg . The second member can drive movement of the second leg independently from movement of the first leg . Thus by applying out of phase voltages to the actuator members and the actuator can cause the probe to move laterally as well as up and down. This generates both in plane motion and out of plane motion of the probe .

As shown in one embodiment uses a piezoelectric actuator that includes a piezoelectric member affixed to the cantilever beam adjacent to the proximal end . When an electrical potential is applied to the piezoelectric member the piezoelectric member will deform along a predetermined dimension thereby causing the cantilever beam to bend. Also all of the displacement detection mechanisms disclosed above e.g. capacitive optical etc. may be used with the embodiment and it may be used with a V shaped cantilever beam.

The piezoelectric member can be for example a film of a material such as ZnO or AIN or one of many other thin film piezoelectric materials. Typically the probe should be longer than the thickness of the piezoelectric member .

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

