---

title: Video broadcasting to mobile communication devices
abstract: A device receives login information and a content stream request from a user device connected to a wireless access network, and authenticates, via a backend server device, the user device based on the login information. The device also provides, when the user device is authenticated, a content link and a license key to the user device, and the user device provides the content link and the license key to a content delivery device. The device further verifies the license key for the content delivery device, and the content delivery device establishes a secure connection with the user device via the wireless access network, retrieves the requested content stream based on the content link, and provides the content stream to the user device via the secure connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08719910&OS=08719910&RS=08719910
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08719910
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100929
---
As wireless network data rates improve using third generation 3G fourth generation 4G and WiFi technologies more and more bandwidth intensive applications are being developed. Video broadcast over the Internet is becoming a significant part of Internet traffic with video portals provided by content providers such as Hulu YouTube CNN etc. Video content is also becoming more popular with applications provided via mobile communication devices such as smart phones e.g. the Motorola DROID the iPhone etc. . Much of the video content provided by such content providers and or applications is high bit rate content that may not be optimized for wireless networks. Wireless service providers have no control over this off network video content. If content delivery is not optimized for wireless networks video content may become a choking point for the wireless networks. This may result in poor user experiences and degraded services e.g. provided by the wireless networks for other applications like voice over Internet protocol VoIP .

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Systems and or methods described herein may reliably broadcast video content e.g. streaming video content or progressive download video content to mobile communication devices. The systems and or methods may provide authentication procedures that are integrated with backend servers and a mobile application executing on the mobile communication device. The systems and or methods may provide session based streaming content delivery to prevent unauthorized hijacking of the content. The mobile application may check with the backend servers to validate and update session keys which may ensure seamless broadcast streaming.

In one example implementation the systems and or methods may provide a mobile application to a user device e.g. a mobile communication device such as a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone etc. . The mobile application may obtain information associated with the user device e.g. a mobile equipment identifier MEID a mobile directory number MDN a user password etc. and may provide the information to a backend server using a secure connection. If the backend server authenticates the user device e.g. based on the information a license key and a content link e.g. that requests the content may be delivered to the user device. The user device may utilize the license key to establish a secure connection with a content delivery device and may utilize the content link to request video content from the content delivery device. The content delivery device may transcode the requested video content e.g. to a format that the user device can play and may stream the transcoded video content to the user device e.g. for playback via the secure connection.

In another implementation for example the systems and or methods may receive login information and a content request from the user device and may authenticate via a backend server the user device based on the login information. If the user device is not authenticated the systems and or methods may deny the user device access to the requested content. If the user device is authenticated the systems and or methods may provide a content link e.g. that requests the content and a license key to the user device and may verify the license key with a content delivery device. If the content delivery device verifies the license key the content delivery device may establish a secure connection with the user device may retrieve the requested content e.g. as set forth in the content link and may provide a content stream to the user device via the secure connection. The systems and or methods may monitor the login attempt by the user device e.g. to prevent multiple failed login attempts and may monitor the content stream e.g. to ensure that the license key is used by a single content stream .

As used herein the terms viewer subscriber and or user may be used interchangeably. Also the terms viewer subscriber and or user are intended to be broadly interpreted to include a user device e.g. a mobile communication device or a user of a user device.

As further shown in application server registration server transcoding server and content provider may be provided behind a firewall . Thus one or more of application server registration server transcoding server and content provider may be referred to herein as a backend device or backend devices. Furthermore one or more of streaming server transcoding server and content provider may be referred to herein as a content delivery device or content delivery devices. 

User device may include any device that is capable of communicating with one or more of mobile server streaming server application server registration server transcoding server and content provider via a wireless network e.g. network . For example user device may include a mobile computation and or communication device such as a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a wireless device a smart phone a laptop computer e.g. with a wireless air card a global positioning system GPS device a content recording device e.g. a camera a video camera etc. etc.

Mobile server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example mobile server may include a device that is capable of communicating with user device e.g. via network and with the Internet not shown . In one implementation mobile server may receive login information e.g. a MDN and a passcode associated with user device and a content request e.g. for video content from user device . Mobile server may authenticate user device e.g. based on the login information and via application server before providing a content link e.g. a link to request secure delivery of video content by streaming server to user device via a secure connection e.g. a hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS connection . If user device fails authentication mobile server may not provide the content link to user device and user device may be denied access to video content.

Streaming server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example streaming server may include multiple devices e.g. where each device supports multiple video streams that are capable of communicating with user device e.g. via network and with the Internet. In one implementation when user device is authenticated by mobile server streaming server may securely stream video content e.g. a streaming uniform resource locator URL directly to user device . For security purposes the streaming URL may be session based so that the streaming URL may be used only once by a single user device and so that user device may periodically check with mobile server to ensure that a session has not expired. In one example the streaming video content may include digital content and or analog content. Streaming server may stream video content e.g. in multiple formats locally to user device e.g. via network . By streaming video content locally streaming server may efficiently provide video content to user device without being dependent upon content provider .

Application server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example application server may include a device that is capable of communicating with mobile server and or registration server . In one implementation application server may support a user registration service e.g. provided by registration server by validating registering users e.g. via a database and by providing mobile server with secure access to registered users profiles. Mobile server may utilize the registered users profiles to authenticate user devices e.g. user device attempting to access content from streaming server . Application server may define parameters for network such as how many users can be registered in one region e.g. for delivery of video content how many user devices can connect to network e.g. to prevent traffic congestion etc. In one example application server may provide the network parameters to mobile server and mobile server may implement the network parameters.

Registration server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example registration server may include a device that is capable of communicating with user device mobile server and or application server . In one implementation registration server may require a single sign on SSO or global login for a user to register user device for viewing content e.g. live video broadcasting . Once user device is registered registration server may provide a message e.g. a Short Message Service SMS message that instructs user device about downloading a mobile application e.g. an application that enables user device to access video broadcasts provided by network . Registration server may send a separate communication e.g. an email to the user s email account. The separate communication may include a passcode e.g. a four digit passcode for user device . The passcode may be entered by the user during installation of the mobile application on user device and may be saved by user device e.g. for authenticating user device each time user device requests content from network .

Transcoding server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example transcoding server may include a device that is capable of communicating with streaming server and content provider . In one implementation transcoding server may receive content e.g. a video content stream from content provider and may transcode or convert the video content stream to a format that user device may utilize e.g. playback . In one example transcoding server may convert the video content stream to an International Telecommunication Union ITU T H.264 Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG4 format with a bit rate of two hundred and fifty six 256 kilobits per second kbps . Transcoding server may provide the transcoded video content stream to streaming server and streaming server may provide the transcoded video content stream to user device e.g. via network .

Content provider may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search and or provide information in a manner described herein. In one implementation content provider may include a computer system an application a cable head end and or a broadcasting device capable of providing video content e.g. VOD content high definition HD VOD content TV programming movies on demand services live television etc. in a variety of formats commercials advertisements instructions and or other information. In one example content provider may receive a request for a video content stream from streaming server and may provide the requested video content stream to transcoding server . Transcoding server may transcode or convert the video content stream as described above and may provide the transcoded video content stream to streaming server .

Network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an intranet the Internet an optical fiber or fiber optic based network a cable television network a satellite television network or a combination of networks. In one example implementation network may provide a wireless access network for user device . The wireless access network in one implementation may correspond to a 4G network a Long Term Evolution LTE network an advanced LTE network etc. The wireless access network may include a communications network that connects subscribers e.g. user device to a service provider e.g. mobile server and or streaming server . In another implementation the wireless access network may include a WiFi network or other access networks e.g. an enhanced high rate packet data eHRPD network or a WiMax network .

Firewall may include one or more computation or communication devices that regulate types of traffic entering and or exiting a portion of a network e.g. a private network a portion of network that includes application server registration server transcoding server and content provider etc. . For example firewall may exercise control over incoming and or outgoing traffic to or from restricted portions of network .

Although shows example components of network in other implementations network may include fewer components different components differently arranged components and or additional components than those depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of network may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network .

Bus may permit communication among the components of device . Processing unit may include one or more processors or microprocessors that interpret and execute instructions. In other implementations processing unit may be implemented as or include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or the like.

Memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processing unit a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processing unit and or some other type of magnetic or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive for storing information and or instructions.

Input device may include a device that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse a pen a microphone one or more biometric mechanisms and the like. Output device may include a device that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with other devices such as other devices of network .

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. A logical memory device may include memory space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows example components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

As further shown in a user not shown may utilize user device to perform a registration operation with registration server . Registration operation may include the user registering user device for a broadcast video content service provided by network . In one example the user may register e.g. with a SSO or global login through a web page e.g. an intranet page provided by registration server to user device . The user may modify or add a mobile number e.g. a MDN associated with user device from the web page. During registration operation registration server may limit a number of users for a particular location e.g. to optimize network bandwidth and prevent traffic congestion . For example if there are too many users registered in one particular location then registration operation may fail and user device may receive a message indicating that registration has been denied e.g. Sorry registration limitation reached for this location please call this number xxx xxx xxxx if you have any questions . If the registration of user device is accepted by registration server registration server may provide a user profile to application server e.g. to a user profile database . User profile may include information associated with the user e.g. a name address billing information etc. and user device e.g. a MDN a MEID a passcode etc. .

Registration server e.g. via registration operation may provide to user device a message e.g. a SMS message that instructs user device about downloading and installing a mobile application . Mobile application may include an application that enables user device to access video broadcasts provided by network . Registration server e.g. via registration operation may send a separate communication e.g. an email to the user s email account. The separate communication may include a passcode e.g. a four digit passcode for user device . Using the instructions provided by the SMS message user device may download mobile application and may install mobile application on user device . The passcode e.g. received via the email may be entered by the user during installation of mobile application on user device and may be saved by user device e.g. for authenticating user device each time user device requests content from network .

After installation of mobile application the user may test mobile application as indicated by reference number to determine if mobile application is functioning properly. In the test mobile application may be authenticated by mobile server via the MDN and passcode associated with user device . For example the user may provide e.g. via user device a global login a password and the MDN to mobile server . Mobile server may validate the global login and password by checking user profile in application server . If the validation passes mobile server may save the global login and MDN in application server e.g. for mapping the MDN to the global login and may provide user device an indication of a successful login. User device may save the MDN and passcode in a memory associated with user device . Alternatively user device may not save the MDN since it may be obtained through an application programming interface API associated with user device .

In typical scenarios the global login and password are encrypted and saved to a user device. However if the user device is lost or stolen and the encryption is decoded the unauthorized user may gain access to billing information and other sensitive information. Saving the MDN and passcode e.g. as described above instead of the global login may prevent the global login from being obtained when user device is lost or stolen. If user device is lost or stolen the MDN and passcode may only be used for accessing streaming content and may not be used for gaining access to sensitive information.

If the authentication of user device fails e.g. as indicated by test failure mobile server may provide an error message e.g. Mobile device is not registered authentication failed to user device . If user device is authenticated mobile server may provide an indication e.g. a test pass indication to streaming server and mobile server or streaming server may make sure that not too many users are using the same network e.g. network for video streaming e.g. to prevent traffic congestion . For example if a base station of network provides wireless access to user device mobile server may set a threshold number of users e.g. ten 10 concurrent connections for the base station which may not be exceeded. If the threshold number of users is not exceeded streaming server may provide a streaming URL to user device . User device may receive streaming URL and may begin streaming from URL using a video player associated with user device . Streaming URL may be exposed to the Internet i.e. others may access streaming URL and thus may be exposed to improper use. However streaming URL may be session based to protect against improper use e.g. streaming URL may be used by only one user device and a session identifier ID may be periodically changed between user device and streaming server .

Although shows example components of network portion in other implementations network portion may include fewer components different components differently arranged components and or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of network portion may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .

If a user wishes to access streaming video content provided by network user device may provide login information and a content request to mobile server . Login information may include the MDN and the passcode associated with user device a model of user device a network being used by user device etc. Content request may include a request for streaming video content provided by streaming server . In one example content request may include a protocol e.g. HTTPS real time streaming protocol RTSP etc. for delivery of the requested content an identifier associated with the requested content etc. Mobile server may utilize the MDN to perform a lookup e.g. of a database in application server for the global login associated with the MDN. Mobile server may authenticate the login attempt by comparing the global login and the passcode to the user profiles provided in application server as indicated by reference number . In one example mobile server may authenticate user device via a secure data connection with application server e.g. provided behind firewall . If the global login and the passcode match a user profile e.g. associated with user device mobile server may provide to user device an indication of a successful login. If the global login and or the passcode do not match a user profile mobile server may deny user device access to the requested content or may request the user to input the global login and the passcode to the user device .

If the login is successful mobile server may provide a content link and a license key to user device e.g. directly to mobile application so that the user cannot view content link and or license key . Content link may include a content access URL that enables access to the requested content such as a RTSP URL e.g. rtsp content.site.com 192245 liveevent key token 0123456789 or a HTTPS URL e.g. https content.site.com 192675 playlist key token 0123456789 . License key may include a key of any length e.g. 32 bits 64 bits 128 bits etc. . In order to obtain the requested content user device may provide content link and license key to streaming server . Streaming server may verify or validate license key with mobile server e.g. via a secure connection as indicated by reference number . If license key is verified streaming server may establish a secure connection with user device . In one example secure connection may include a user datagram protocol UDP or a transmission control protocol TCP socket provided between user device and streaming server e.g. that is maintained through the RTSP . In another example secure connection may include a TCP secure socket provided between user device and streaming server e.g. that is maintained through the HTTPS protocol . After license key is verified mobile server may invalidate license key so that no other connections may utilize license key .

As further shown in streaming server may provide a request for the content identified in content link to transcoding server or directly to content provider . Transcoding server may provide request to content provider and content provider may provide the requested content e.g. a video content stream to transcoding server as indicated by reference number . Transcoding server may receive content stream from content provider and may transcode or convert content stream to a format that user device may utilize e.g. to produce a transcoded content stream . In one example transcoding server may convert content stream to an ITU T H.264 MPEG4 format with a bit rate of 256 kbps. Transcoding server may provide transcoded content stream to streaming server and streaming server may provide via secure connection transcoded content stream to user device e.g. for playback by a video player . In one implementation the video player may be integrated into e.g. interfaced with mobile application so that transcoded content stream may only be played on user device and may not be duplicated or saved for others to use.

As further shown in mobile server may monitor login connections of network to ensure that no intruders attack network as indicated by reference number . Streaming server may monitor secure connection to ensure that no other connection can be made with license key as further indicated by reference number .

Although shows example components of network portion in other implementations network portion may include fewer components different components differently arranged components and or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of network portion may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .

As further shown in user device may login to mobile server and may request a content link e.g. for a content stream as indicated by reference number . User device may provide a MDN and a passcode e.g. via the login to mobile server as indicated by reference number . Mobile server may perform a lookup to replace the MDN with a global login associated with user device and may verify the global login and the passcode of user device with a user profile database e.g. provided in application server not shown as indicated by reference number . When user device is verified or validated mobile server may provide a content link with a license key to user device as indicated by reference number .

In order to obtain the requested content user device may provide the content link and the license key to streaming server as indicated by reference number . Streaming server may validate the license key with mobile server as indicated by reference number . When the license key is validated by streaming server streaming server may establish a secure connection with user device and mobile server may invalidate the license key e.g. so that no other connection can use the same license key . Streaming server may provide the requested content stream via the secure connection to user device as indicated by reference number . Mobile server may monitor the content stream to ensure that the license key is used by only one stream as indicated by reference number . Mobile server may also monitor the login of user device and may disable the login if user device repeatedly fails to login as further indicated by reference number .

Although shows example components of network portion in other implementations network portion may include fewer components different components differently arranged components and or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of network portion may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of network portion .

As illustrated in process may include receiving login information and a content request from a user device block and authenticating via a backend server the user device based on the login information block . For example in implementations described above in connection with user device may provide login information and content request to mobile server . Login information may include the MDN and the passcode associated with user device a model of user device a network being used by user device etc. Content request may include a request for streaming video content provided by streaming server . In one example content request may include a protocol e.g. HTTPS RTSP etc. for delivery of the requested content an identifier associated with the requested content etc. Mobile server may utilize the MDN to perform a lookup e.g. of a database in application server for the global login associated with the MDN. Mobile server may authenticate the login attempt by comparing the global login and the passcode to the user profiles provided in application server as indicated by reference number .

As further shown in if the user device is not authenticated block UNAUTHENTICATED process may include denying the user device access to the requested content block . For example in implementations described above in connection with if the global login and or the passcode do not match a user profile mobile server may deny user device access to the requested content or may request the user to input the global login and the passcode to the user device .

Returning to if the user device is authenticated block AUTHENTICATED process may include providing a content link and a license key to the user device block and verifying the license key with a content delivery device that establishes a secure connection with the user device retrieves the content and provides a content stream to the user device via the secure connection block . For example in implementations described above in connection with if the login is successful mobile server may provide content link and license key to user device . In order to obtain the requested content user device may provide content link and license key to streaming server . Streaming server may verify or validate license key with mobile server e.g. via a secure connection as indicated by reference number . If license key is verified streaming server may establish secure connection with user device and may provide via secure connection transcoded content stream to user device e.g. for playback by a video player .

As further shown in process may include monitoring the content stream and the login associated with the user device block . For example in implementations described above in connection with mobile server may monitor the content stream to ensure that the license key is used by only one stream as indicated by reference number . Mobile server may also monitor the login of user device and may disable the login if user device repeatedly fails to login as further indicated by reference number .

As illustrated in process may include registering a user device with a registration server block receiving a mobile application from the registration server and installing the mobile application block and testing the mobile application after installation block . For example in implementations described above in connection with registration operation may include the user registering user device for a broadcast video content service provided by network . In one example the user may register e.g. with a SSO or global login through a web page e.g. an intranet page provided by registration server to user device . Registration server e.g. via registration operation may provide to user device a message e.g. a SMS message that instructs user device about downloading and installing mobile application . Registration server e.g. via registration operation may send a separate communication e.g. an email to the user s email account. Using the instructions provided by the SMS message user device may download mobile application e.g. from registration server and may install mobile application on user device . After installation of mobile application the user may test mobile application as indicated by reference number to determine if mobile application is functioning properly.

As further shown in process may include providing login information and a content request to a mobile server block receiving if the login information is authenticated a content link and a license key from the mobile server block and sending the content link and the license key to a content delivery device block . For example in implementations described above in connection with user device may provide login information and content request to mobile server . Mobile server may authenticate the login attempt by comparing the global login and the passcode to the user profiles provided in application server as indicated by reference number . If the login is successful mobile server may provide content link and license key to user device e.g. directly to mobile application so that the user cannot view content link and or license key . In order to obtain the requested content user device may provide content link and license key to streaming server .

Returning to process may include establishing a secure connection with the content delivery device when the license key is validated by the content delivery device block and receiving via the secure connection and from the content delivery device the requested content stream based on the content link block . For example in implementations described above in connection with if license key is verified streaming server may establish secure connection with user device . Streaming server may provide request for the content identified in content link to transcoding server or directly to content provider . Transcoding server may provide request to content provider and content provider may provide the requested content e.g. a video content stream to transcoding server as indicated by reference number . Transcoding server may receive content stream from content provider and may transcode or convert content stream to a format that user device may utilize e.g. to produce transcoded content stream . Transcoding server may provide transcoded content stream to streaming server and streaming server may provide via secure connection transcoded content stream to user device e.g. for playback by a video player .

Systems and or methods described herein may reliably broadcast video content e.g. streaming video content or progressive download video content to mobile communication devices. The systems and or methods may provide authentication procedures that are integrated with backend servers and a mobile application executing on the mobile communication device. The systems and or methods may provide session based streaming content delivery to prevent unauthorized hijacking of the content. The mobile application may check with the backend servers to validate and update session keys which may ensure seamless broadcast streaming.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention.

For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that example aspects as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects should not be construed as limiting. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as a component or as logic that performs one or more functions. This component or logic may include hardware such as an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the invention. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the invention includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

