---

title: Entity category extraction for an entity that is the subject of pre-labeled data
abstract: Summaries of entities (e.g., people, places, things, concepts, etc.) may provide additional useful information to user. For example, a search engine may provide a summary of an entity within search results. A category (e.g., “writer”, “politician”, etc.) of the entity that is short and concise may be advantageous to provide within a summary of the entity. The category may allow a user to quickly determine whether the information of the entity relates to the intended entity (e.g., search results of an entity as “a writer” vs. search results of an entity as “a politician”). Potential categories and summary text may be extracted from pre-labeled data. The potential categories and summary text may be intersected to determine a set of candidate categories that may be ranked. An entity category having a desired ranked may be determined as the entity category that describes the entity in a desired way.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09268878&OS=09268878&RS=09268878
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09268878
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100622
---
The internet provides a rich source of information that users may search consume and or share with others. For example users may search for information regarding entities such as people places things blogs companies ideas concepts and or a wide variety of other information. To enhance a users experience in searching and or consuming content relating to entities it may be advantageous to provide additional information such as summaries relating to the entities. In one example a summary of an entity may comprise a category providing a short and succinct description of the entity e.g. an entity of Mr. Dan may have a summary comprising a category of writer which may aid a user in distinguishing Mr. Dan the writer from another Mr. Dan who is a politician . Given the vast amount of information available on the internet however deficiencies still remain regarding assisting users in finding relevant content.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for determining an entity category at times making use of pre labeled data are disclosed herein. Entities may be interpreted as among other things people places things blogs companies ideas concepts and or a wide variety of ideas that may be found in an encyclopedia for example. Pre labeled data may be interpreted as information e.g. web pages articles text blogs data stored in a database and or other electronic data that may comprise pre labeled categories associated with one or more entities. For example pre labeled data may be a web page comprising an encyclopedia type article about an entity such as clouds where that page also includes pre labeled or pre existing categories about that entity such as weather moisture sun rain climate etc.

Given that many categories may exist for a particular entity e.g. an entity of Mr. Dan may have associated categories of both writer and politician because Mr. Dan is both a writer and politician and or there is a first Mr. Dan that is a writer and second Mr. Dan that is a politician and or that many categories may be suitable or applicable to a particular entity it may be desirable to weed out certain potentially less relevant categories rank categories and or otherwise select more suitable potentially more relevant categories for an entity. Accordingly in an effort to achieve the same as provided herein one or more potential categories and summary text relating to an entity may be extracted from pre labeled data. For example pre labeled data may comprise an article regarding clouds. Pre labeled categories within the article may be extracted as potential categories relating to an entity of clouds. A portion of text within the article e.g. a first occurring sentence a first occurring paragraph the entire article etc. may be extracted as summary text relating to the entity of clouds.

For respective potential categories words of a potential category e.g. category words may be intersected with words within the summary text e.g. summary words to determine a set of candidate categories. That is a potential category having a category word that appears in the summary text may be included in the set of candidate categories. In this way potential categories may be filtered based upon the summary text. To take into account variations of words e.g. singular vs. plural form morphological analysis may be performed upon category words to generate variation category words that may be intersected with summary words within the summary text to determine the set of candidate categories. Additionally syntactical features of the summary text may be determined based upon natural language processing techniques e.g. part of speech tagging phrase chunking etc. . One or more potential categories may be excluded from the set of candidate categories based upon the syntactical features.

The set of candidate categories may be ranked based upon one or more ranking features to generate a ranked set of candidate categories. For example candidate categories may be ranked based upon a position within summary text feature e.g. a position of one or more candidate words of a candidate category within the summary text in relation to verbs prepositions a first word within the sentence etc. display size feature e.g. a text width of a candidate query a font size a bold format etc. and or other candidate features. In one example a candidate category may be assigned a desired rank based upon one or more candidate category words of the candidate category occurring after verbs e.g. is or was . In another example a candidate category may be assigned an undesired rank based upon one or more candidate category words of the candidate category occurring after prepositions e.g. from or in . In this way an entity category having a desired rank may be determined from the ranked set of candidate categories. In one example the entity category may be presented as a search query completion suggestion. In another example the entity category may be provided within a summary of an entity within a search result page.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

When providing a summary of an entity such as people places things and or concepts it may be advantageous to provide a category description of the entity within the summary. The category may comprise a short and succinct description of the entity. For example a summary of a person an entity of Mr. Dan may have a category of politician . The category may help a user to understand what entity the summary references e.g. Mr. Dan the politician as opposed to Mr. Dan the writer . Additionally category information may be used to aid users when searching for information relating to an entity. For example when a user begins to type a search query of an entity e.g. Marquette a category may be provided as a search query completion suggestion e.g. a city in Kansas to aid the user in narrowing the search to a desired entity e.g. Marquette in Kansas as opposed to Marquette in Michigan . Thus it may be advantageous to leverage pre labeled data having pre labeled categories and summary text to determine an entity category that is short concise and highly relevant to the entity and to content that a user may be interested in consuming.

Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for determining an entity category are provided herein. In particular potential categories e.g. categories about an entity pre labeled by manual input and summary text e.g. a summary sentence paragraph and or article summarizing an entity may be extracted from pre labeled data e.g. a web page article regarding an entity . The potential categories and the summary text may be compared e.g. intersected to filter out undesirable potential categories. In this way a set of candidate categories may be determined. The set of candidate categories may be ranked based upon ranking features e.g. category word location within the summary text category word size etc. . An entity category having a desired rank may be determined from the ranked set of candidate categories e.g. an entity category having a highest rank . The entity category may be used within a summary and or within a search engine as a search query completion suggestion for example.

One embodiment of determining an entity category is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At one or more potential categories and summary text relating to an entity may be extracted from pre labeled data. In one example pre labeled data may correspond to a web page article comprising a textual description of an entity e.g. a portion of the textual description may be extracted as summary text such as a first occurring sentence or a first occurring paragraph and a set of pre labeled categories relating to the entity. It may be appreciated that a potential category may comprise one or more category words e.g. Novel by Mr. Dan about British spies Novel by Mr. Dan and or other category words where a category word may comprise a single word number and or symbol and or a multiple words numbers and or symbols e.g. a phrase of one or more words one or more numbers and or one or more symbols . It may be appreciated that category words may overlap or have overlapping terms e.g. category word Novel and category word Novel by Mr. Dan . It may be appreciated that summary text may comprise one or more summary words e.g. Dan born in 1982 raced sports cars where a summary word may comprise a single word number and or symbol and or multiple words numbers and or symbols e.g. a phrase of one or more words one or more numbers and or one or more symbols .

At for respective potential categories category words of a potential category may be intersected with summary words within the summary text to determine a set of candidate categories. For example a potential category raced sports cars may be compared with summary text Dan liked to race sports cars . Because the category words raced sports cars and or variations thereof occur within the summary text the potential category raced sports cars may be included within the set of candidate categories. In contrast a potential category born in 1982 may be compared with the summary text Dan liked to race sports cars . Because the category words born in and 1982 do not occur within the summary text the potential category born in 1982 may be excluded from the set of candidate categories.

Because a word may be used in multiple forms e.g. singular vs. plural format morphological or other analysis may be performed upon category words of a potential category to generate variation category words e.g. race may be also be analyzed instead of merely raced and vice versa . The variation category words of the potential category may be intersected with summary words within the summary text to determine the set of candidate categories e.g. race may also be intersected with summary words instead of merely intersecting raced with summary words . Additionally syntactical features of the summary text may be determined based upon natural language processing techniques such as part of speech tagging and or phrase chunking. Potential categories may be excluded and or included from to the set of candidate categories based upon the syntactical features.

At the set of candidate categories may be ranked based upon one or more ranking features. For example ranking features may comprise a display size feature of category words within the summary text a position within summary text feature corresponding to relative locations of category words in relation to other words e.g. verbs prepositions etc. within the summary text etc. In one example a desired rank e.g. a high rank may be assigned to candidate categories having category words occurring after verbs such as is or was within the summary text. In another example an undesired rank e.g. a low rank may be assigned to candidate categories having category words occurring after prepositions such as from or in within the summary text. In this example category words occurring after verbs may comprise more relevant and desired information about the entity than category words occurring after prepositions. For example when analyzing the text Mr. Dan is a carpenter from Ohio the fact that Mr. Dan is a carpenter may be more relevant and descriptive than the fact that Mr. Dan is from Ohio .

At an entity category having a desired rank may be determined from the ranked set of candidate categories. For example a candidate category having a highest rank may be determined as the entity category. In one example the entity category may be presented within a search result page in response to a user search query corresponding to the entity. In another example the entity category may be presented within a summary of the entity. In another example the entity category may be provided as a search query completion suggestion in response to user input comprising at least part of the entity s name as a user search query. At the method ends.

In another example of determining an entity category corresponding to an entity one or more potential categories may be extracted from an article of a web page. Summary text may be extracted from at least a portion of a first paragraph of the article. In one example the web page or a portion thereof may be formatted or written in a certain style such that summary text can be extracted from the first paragraph or a portion thereof of the web page for example and the same may be true where summary text is obtained from additional alternative portions the page . For respective potential categories category words of a potential category may be intersected with summary words within the summary text to determine a set of candidate categories. Potential categories may be excluded from the set of candidate categories based upon syntactical features of the summary text. The set of candidate categories may be ranked based upon at least one of a position within summary text feature e.g. a category word occurring after a preposition vs. a category word occurring after a verb and a display size feature e.g. font size of category words length of category words and or other size features of category words within the summary text . An entity category having a desired rank may be determined from the ranked set of candidate categories. In this way an entity category providing a short and concise summary of the entity may be determined.

The ranking component may be configured to rank the set of candidate categories . In one example the ranking component may assign a desired rank to a candidate category based upon one or more category words of the candidate category occurring after a verb such as is or was . In another example the ranking component may assign an undesired rank to a candidate category based upon one or more category words of the candidate category occurring after a preposition such as from or in . In this example category words occurring after verbs may comprise more relevant and desired information about the entity than category words occurring after prepositions. The ranking component may be configured to determine the entity category having a desired rank from the ranked set of candidate categories. The presentation component may be configured to present the entity category in response to user input comprising at least part of the entity s name.

It will be appreciated that components of the system can be applied or enabled to varying degrees. For example the ranking component and or the filtering component may be throttled up or down to have a greater or lesser impact within the system . For example if the ranking component is throttled down to reduce or eliminate its effect the entity category may be determined mainly or completely based upon the implementation of the filtering component . Similarly if the filtering component is throttled down to reduce or eliminate its effect the entity category may be determined mainly or completely based upon the implementation of the ranking component .

It may be appreciated that a filtering component e.g. filter component of may intersect category words of potential categories with summary words within the summary text to determine a set of candidate categories. For example living people KBG officers and or other potential categories may be excluded from a set of candidate categories because category words of the potential categories do not match summary words within the summary text . In contrast because category word British spies and category word Soviet Union of a potential category British spies for the Soviet Union do match summary words within the summary text British spies for the Soviet Union may be included in the set of candidate categories because at least some of the category words match summary words within the summary text . For example British spies may match British Spy and Soviet Union may match Soviet Union . Other potential categories such as prison 1944 births and or double agent may likewise be included within the set of candidate categories for example.

In one example the filtering component may intersect the potential category novel by Mrs. Colleen with summary words within the summary text . The category words of the potential category novel by Mrs. Colleen directly match the summary word s novel by Mrs. Colleen and thus the potential category novel by Mrs. Colleen may be included within the set of candidate categories . The filtering component may intersect the potential category economic books with summary words within the summary text . Morphological analysis may be performed upon the category word economic and the category word books to create variation category words economics and book . The category words and or variation category words may match summary word s economics book and thus the potential category economic books may be included within the set of candidate categories .

The filtering component may intersect the potential category rail transport in fiction with summary words within the summary text . The category words of the potential category rail transport in fiction e.g. rail transportation fiction etc. may not match summary words within the summary text . Thus the potential category rail transportation in fiction may be excluded from the set of candidate categories . In this way the set of candidate categories may be determined based upon intersecting the potential categories or portions words thereof with the summary text . It may be appreciated that additional logic may be implemented such as syntactical features that may be utilized to determine the set of candidate categories .

In one example the ranking component may rank a candidate category novel by Mrs. Colleen with a desired rank e.g. a high rank because candidate words of the candidate category novel by Mrs. Colleen occur after a verb is within summary text e.g. is a novel by Mrs. Colleen . The ranking component may rank a candidate category 1960 novels with an undesired rank e.g. a medium low rank because candidate words of the candidate category 1960 novels occur after a preposition in within the summary text e.g. in 1960 .

The ranking component may rank a candidate category economic books with a desired rank e.g. a very high rank because candidate words of the candidate category economics books occur after a verb is within summary text and the candidate words have a large display size font within the summary text e.g. is an economics book . In this way the ranking component may rank the set of candidate categories to generate the ranked set of candidate categories . For example the ranked set of candidate categories may comprise novel by Mrs. Colleen having a highest rank economic books having a second highest rank fictional technology having a third highest rank and or other candidate categories having respective rankings.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

