---

title: Charging roller, process cartridge and electrophotographic apparatus
abstract: The present invention provides a charging roller having a stable chargeability and capable of preventing occurrence of “fogging” on an electrophotographic image. The invention relates to a contact-charging type charging roller which includes a conductive support and a surface layer. The surface layer contains a binder, resin particles containing a carbon black dispersed in the binder, and graphitized particles dispersed in the binder; and the surface layer has, on its surface, convex portions derived from the resin particles, and convex portions derived from the graphitized particles. These convex portions have a specific relationship.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07835669&OS=07835669&RS=07835669
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 07835669
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100212
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT JP2009 068937 filed Oct. 29 2009 which claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2008 281599 filed Oct. 31 2008.

The present invention relates to a charging roller which charges a subject to be charged by a contact charging method a process cartridge and an electrophotographic apparatus.

Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 2007 127777 discloses a charging roller having a surface layer containing resin particles which are formed of a resin in which a carbon black is dispersed hereinafter also referred to as CB dispersed resin particles .

The present inventors have studied based on the conventional technique a charging roller having a surface layer which contains CB dispersed resin particles and has on its surface convex portions derived from the CB dispersed resin particles. As a result the present inventors have found that the CB dispersed resin particles forming the convex portions easily induce electrostatic discharge because the CB dispersed resin particles are made conductive by carbon black and thus such a charging roller exhibits a stable chargeability even if toner and external additives adhere on its surface according to the use thereof. It has also been found that on the other hand fogging can take place on an electrophotographic image formed through a charging step using such a charging roller.

Then the present invention is directed to providing a charging roller having a stable chargeability and capable of preventing the occurrence of fogging on an electrophotographic image. The present invention is also directed to providing a process cartridge and an electrophotographic apparatus each capable of stably offering high quality electrophotographic images.

A charging roller according to the present invention is a contact charging type charging roller which includes a conductive support and a surface layer wherein the surface layer contains a binder resin particles containing a carbon black dispersed in the binder and graphitized particles dispersed in the binder and the surface layer has on its surface convex portions derived from the resin particles and convex portions derived from the graphitized particles wherein the number of convex portions derived from the graphitized particles having a distance as a positive value from a plane surface including each vertex of three convex portions derived from the resin particles adjacent to one convex portion derived from the graphitized particles is 80 or more of the total number of the convex portions derived from the graphitized particles.

An electrophotographic apparatus according to the present invention includes the charging roller and an electrophotographic photosensitive member which is arranged so as to be charged by the charging roller. Further a process cartridge according to the present invention includes the charging roller and the electrophotographic photosensitive member wherein the process cartridge is adapted to be detachably mounted to a main body of an electrophotographic apparatus.

The charging roller of the present invention can prevent the occurrence of lateral steak images due to a charging defect of a photosensitive member which is caused by extraneous matter attached onto a surface of the charging roller and can prevent degradation of image quality with increased image density. The charging roller of the present invention is capable of stabilizing the discharge property even under application of a large output current load and is suitably used for electrophotographic apparatuses in which attempts are made to achieve further higher image quality higher speed performance and longer lives.

Further features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of exemplary embodiments with reference to the attached drawings.

The present inventors have presumed that the mechanism by which fogging occurs in an electrophotographic image by using a charging roller having on its surface convex portions derived from carbon black CB dispersed resin particles as follows.

Based on the presumption the present inventors thought that it would be possible to prevent fogging from adhering onto an electrophotographic photosensitive member by effecting electricity to be stably and appropriately discharged also from a plane portion between two CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions while maintaining suitable discharge generated from the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions so as to weaken the intensity of the local electric fields generated at the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member. To this end the present inventors produced a charging roller in which convex portions derived from graphitized particles hereinafter also referred to as graphitized particle derived convex portions having a height lower than that of the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions are formed in the plane portion . Then the present inventors studied and examined the chargeability of the thus produced charging roller and fogging in electrophotographic images formed using the charging roller. As a result the present inventors have found that the charging roller has a stable chargeability and the occurrence of fogging is substantially reduced in electrophotographic images formed using the charging roller. The present invention has been accomplished based on the findings.

The reason why the occurrence of fogging onto electrophotographic images can be reduced by use of the charging roller of the present invention can be considered as follows. is a diagram schematically illustrating a discharge phenomenon generated in a nip portion formed between a charging roller according to the present invention and an electrophotographic photosensitive member. A surface layer of the charging roller contains CB dispersed resin particles and graphitized particles having a higher conductivity than the CB dispersed resin particles . The surface layer has its surface the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions and graphitized particle derived convex portions . Further the graphitized particle derived convex portions are basically constructed so as not to come closer to the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member than the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions do. In this case from the graphitized particle derived convex portions a discharge is generated which is more intensive than a discharge generating from the plane portion in toward the electrophotographic photosensitive member which is not as intensive as a discharge intensity of the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions . Therefore it is possible to prevent two areas and each having a difference in the electrical potential as illustrated in from being formed in the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member . That is it is possible to weaken the intensity of a local electric field which is formed at a surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member. As a result it is conceivable that the travel distance of a toner traveling to the non latent image portions along the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member can be made as short as possible and adhesion of toner onto the non latent image portions can be suppressed.

Hereinafter the configuration of the charging roller of the present invention will be further described in detail.

As materials of the conductive support for example metals such as iron copper stainless steel aluminum nickel and alloys thereof are exemplified.

The surface layer contains a binder and conductive resin particles containing a carbon black dispersed in the binder CB dispersed resin particles and graphitized particles dispersed in the binder. Further the surface layer has on its surface convex portions derived from the CB dispersed resin particles CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions and convex portions derived from the graphitized particles graphitized particle derived convex portions .

As to the graphitized particle derived convex portions the number of convex portions derived from the graphitized particles having a distance as a positive value from a plane surface including each vertex of three convex portions derived from the resin particles adjacent to one convex portion derived from the graphitized particles is 80 or more of the total number of the convex portions derived from the graphitized particles. Here as for a certain graphitized particle derived convex portion the description having a distance as a positive value from a plane surface including each vertex of three convex portions derived from the resin particles adjacent to the graphitized particle derived convex portion is defined as follows. In other words it means that a vertex of the graphitized particle derived convex portion is positioned lower than the plane surface including each vertex of three CB dispersed resin particles derived convexes adjacent to the graphitized particle derived convex portion.

One of the technical meanings of employing the above mentioned configuration is to prevent the graphitized particle derived convex portions from making contact with the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member. More specifically the graphitized particles are more conductive than the CB dispersed resin particles. Therefore when the graphitized particle derived convex portions directly come in contact with the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member leakage may take place. In order to prevent the graphitized particle derived convex portions from making contact with the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member has a technical meaning for avoiding the occurrence of leakage.

In relation to the definition that the number of graphitized particle derived convex portions that are not directly contacted with the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member is 80 or more of the total number of the graphitized particle derived convex portions the value 80 itself has no critical meaning. It represents a specific numerical value and means that almost or all of the graphitized particle derived convex portions are not in contact with the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member.

The following describes a method of observing a relationship of the height of a graphitized particle derived convex portion to the height of CB dispersed resin particles lying around the graphitized particle derived convex portion. As illustrated in a laser beam is irradiated to convex portions of the surface layer using a laser microscope not illustrated to obtain a reflection spectrum and graphitized particle derived convex portion is detected from the reflection spectrum. Then CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions adjacent to the one graphitized particle derived convex portion are detected using the laser beam. The description CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions adjacent to the graphitized particle derived convex portion means three resin particle derived convex portions each having a vertex i.e. three vertexes lying in a dimensional distance in the shortest length to the third shortest length from the vertex of the graphitized particle derived convex portion. Next a plane including the three vertexes is determined and a distance between the plane and the vertex of the graphitized particle derived convex portion is determined. Then a surface a plane portion of the surface layer which is not provided with any convex portion is defined as a reference plane the number of graphitized particle derived convex portions which are placed with respect to the reference plane at a position lower than the plane is determined and a ratio of the number of the graphitized particle derived convex portions thus determined to the total number of graphitized particle derived convex portions is calculated. The resulting calculated value is 80 or more. When the ratio of the graphitized particle derived convex portions that are placed at a position lower than the plane is 80 or more it is possible to prevent high potential areas caused by high intensity discharge from being formed on the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member to prevent the occurrence of high intensity electric field near the electrophotographic photosensitive member and to prevent the occurrence of increased image density in non latent image portions.

Hereinafter a method of measuring graphitized particle derived convex portions will be further described in detail. First a surface of the surface layer in a field of view of 0.5 mm 0.5 mm is observed by a laser microscope trade name LSM5 PASCAL manufactured by Carl Zeiss AG . Whether the convex portions in the filed of view are derived from CB dispersed resin particles or derived from graphitized particles is identified by varying a wavelength of a laser to be excited and examining the given spectrum of the excitation light beam. Then an x y plane within the view is scanned with the laser to obtain dimensional image data and graphitized particle derived convex portions and CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions are detected from the dimensional image data. Further the focal point of the laser is moved in a Z direction and the scanning is repeated to obtain three dimensional data. Next a graphitized particle derived convex portion is arbitrarily selected and three CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions adjacent to the graphitized particle derived convex portion are determined. A distance of a plane including vertexes of the three CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions being away from vertex of the selected graphitized particle derived convex portion is calculated from the three dimensional data. This procedure is carried out for 10 graphitized particles in the field of view. Similarly to the above the surface of the charging roller in a longitudinal direction is examined to measure for 10 field of views at substantially regular intervals. A distance of each vertex of the graphitized particle derived convex portions in the thus obtained 100 portions in total being away from a plane including three vertexes of CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions was examined. When the number of graphitized particle derived convex portion is less than 100 the number of field of views is increased and the measurement is repeated.

When a vertex of a graphitized particle derived convex portion lies with respect to the reference plane lower than the plane including three vertexes of CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions adjacent to the graphitized particle derived convex portion the distance is defined as positive and when it lies with respect to the reference plane upper than the plane the distance is defined as negative . The number of the graphitized particle derived convex portions with this distance being positive expressed in percentage is defined as a ratio of positive graphitized particle derived convex portions . In the charging member of the present invention it is necessary that the ratio of positive graphitized particle derived convex portions be set to 80 or more.

The distance between the plane including three vertexes of adjacent CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions and a graphitized particle derived convex portion whose vertex lies at a position lower than the place is preferably 0.5 m to 15 m more preferably 3 m to 10 m. With the distance being in the above range it is effective to prevent the occurrence of fogging in an electrophotographic image because the intensity of a local electric field is reduced.

Preferably the conductivities in the graphitized particle derived convex portions and CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions when a voltage of 15V being applied between a surface of the charging roller and the conductive support satisfy inequalities 1 2 and 3 below. 

In the above inequalities I A represents an average electric current value in CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions I B represents an average electric current value in graphitized particle derived convex portions and I C represents an average electric current value in plane portions. As described above the conductivities are higher in order of the graphitized particle derived convex portions CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions and plane portions. When a voltage 15V is applied thereto an average electric current value in graphitized particle derived convex portions is 10 nA or higher preferably three times or more than and 100 times or less than the average electric current value in the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions. When the average electric current value in the graphitized particle derived convex portions is 10 nA or higher the surface of a photographic photosensitive member can be charged by discharge generated from the graphitized particle derived convex portions. By satisfying the inequality 2 a properly small amount of discharge is generated from the graphitized particle derived convex portions as compared to the discharge from the resin particle derived convex portions it is possible to obtain a further advantageous effect of reducing the occurrence of local electric fields across the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member combined with the effect obtained from the heights of these convex portions.

As the conductivities in the graphitized particle derived convex portions CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions and plane portions it is possible to employ conductivities measured in a conductivity mode by an atomic force microscope AFM trade name Q SCOPE250 manufactured by Quesant instruments Corp. . is a configuration diagram of a conductivity measuring apparatus for a charging roller according to the present invention. A direct current power source 6614C manufactured by Agilent Technologies is connected to a conductive support of a charging roller a voltage of 15V is applied to the conductive support a free end of a cantilever is brought into contact with a surface layer of the charging roller and an electric current is measured under the conditions shown in Table 1 below. Electric current values at 100 points for the graphitized particle derived convex portions resin particle derived convex portions and plane portions respectively are measured with varying the field of view to give an average value. It is desired that the graphitized particle derived convex portions CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions and plane portions as measurement targets be measured in the same field of view.

As each density of the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions and the graphitized particle derived convex portions present on the surface of the surface layer in a 0.5 mm square plane the number of the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions is preferably 10 to 1 000 and the number of the graphitized particle derived convex portions is preferably 100 to 10 000.

As the binder a thermosetting resin thermoplastic resin rubber and thermoplastic elastomer can be used. Specific examples thereof include urethane resins fluororesins silicone resins acrylic resins polyamide resins butyral resins styrene ethylene butylene olefin copolymers olefin ethylene butylene olefin copolymers. These may be used alone or in combination. Among these preferred are thermosetting resins for their superiority in releasability to a photosensitive member and resistance to stain.

The CB dispersed resin particles dispersed in the surface layer are conductive particles comprised of a resin in which a carbon black is dispersed and forming convex portions serving as discharge points on the surface layer. An average particle diameter of the CB dispersed resin particles is 1 m to 30 m especially 2 m to 20 m. Here as the average particle diameter of the CB dispersed resin particles in the surface layer a volume average particle diameter measured by the following method is employed. The surface layer is cut out from arbitrarily selected points over a distance of 500 m on a 20 nm basis by a focused ion beam FB 2000C manufactured by Hitachi Ltd. and cross sectional images thereof are photographed by an electron microscope. Images taken for the same particle are then combined at 20 nm intervals and a stereoscopic particle shape is calculated. This work is carried out for arbitrarily selected 100 particles from resin particles and these 100 particles are intended to measure the volume average particle diameter. An equivalent diameter of a sphere having the same volume calculated from the individual stereoscopic particle shapes obtained is defined as a volume average particle diameter. An average value of volume average particle diameters of all the target particles is defined as an average particle diameter.

In a particle size distribution of the CB dispersed resin particles 90 or more of the particles preferably have a particle diameter of from A 5 m to 5A m more preferably from A 3 m to 3A m provided that an average particle diameter of the CB dispersed resin particles is represented by A m. When the resin particles have a particle size distribution in the above range the intensity of discharge generated from the convex portions derived from the resin particles can be made more uniform. A particle size distribution of such resin particles is a distribution where an average particle diameter A m is in the above range of volume average particle diameter.

As the particle size distribution of the CB dispersed resin particles values calculated for the 100 measurement target particles which have been determined for their stereoscopic particle shapes by the above mentioned method can be employed.

The closer to a sphere the shape of the CB dispersed resin particles the smoother the surface of convex portions formed on a surface of the surface layer the more difficult extraneous matter accumulates and thus the more preferred. The ratio of the number of particles having a degree of circularity as an indicator representing a spherical shape of 0.9 or higher to the total number of resin particles dispersed in the surface layer is 80 or more. With the ratio of the particles having a degree of circularity 0.9 or higher being 80 or more it is possible to prevent the occurrence of image nonuniformity like spotted stains resulting from smear of a surface of a charging roller. As the degree of circularity of resin particles dispersed in the surface layer a value calculated from the following equation can be employed using the measurement results of the 100 particles that have been determined for their stereoscopic particle shapes by the above method. Degree of circularity Circumferential length of a circle having an area identical to that of a projected particle image Circumferential length of the projected particle image 

When the particle has a completely spherical shape the degree of circularity is 1.000. The more complicated the surface shape the lower the circularity.

Note that the above mentioned average particle diameter particle size distribution and degree of circularity of the CB dispersed resin particles are values obtained by measuring resin particles which have been dispersed in the surface layer. It is however also possible to employ a value obtained by using resin particles before being dispersed in the surface layer. First 100 resin particles in which secondarily aggregated particles have been removed so as to be primary particles alone are observed by a microscope such as a transmission electron microscope TEM . The resulting image is analyzed in a computer using image analysis software Image Pro Plus manufactured by Planetron Inc. to automatically calculate the degree of circularity through a count size function.

The volume resistivity of the CB dispersed resin particles is preferably selected in view of the relationship with the volume resistivity of the graphitized particles. A volume resistivity of the CB dispersed resin particles is 1.0 10 cm to 1.0 10 cm especially 1.0 10 cm to 1.0 10 cm. This is because with the volume resistivity being in the above range it is possible to form discharge points with which a surface of an electrophotographic photosensitive member can be favorably contact charged. As the volume resistivity of the CB dispersed resin particles it is possible to employ a value measured when a voltage of 10V being applied to a sample under an environment of a temperature of 23 C. and a relative humidity of 50 using a resistance meter trade name LORESTA GP manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Co. Ltd. . As target samples for measuring the volume resistivity those compressed by applying a pressure of 10.1 MPa 102 kgf cm can be used.

As a resin constituting the CB dispersed resin particles there may be exemplified acrylic resins polybutadiene resins polystyrene resins phenol resins polyamide resins nylon resins fluororesins silicone resins epoxy resins and polyester resins. As a carbon black to be dispersed in the resin there may be exemplified furnace black thermal black acetylene black and KETJEN BLACK trade name . As to the average particle diameter these carbon blacks desirably have a primary particle diameter of 10 nm to 300 nm because such carbon blacks can be uniformly dispersed in the resin. As the average particle diameter of the carbon black a value measured according to the following method can be employed. From a cross sectional image of resin particles photographed 100 carbon black particles are arbitrarily selected. A projected area of each carbon black particle is determined and a diameter equivalent to a circle having an area identical to that of the projected particle image is determined and the result can be regarded as the average particle diameter of the carbon black. On this occasion only particles having a circle equivalent diameter in the range of from 5 nm to 500 nm are used for the measurement.

The amount of the carbon black contained in the CB dispersed resin particles is an amount required to give the above mentioned volume resistivity to the CB dispersed resin particles. Generally it is desired that the amount of the carbon black be suitably adjusted to be in the range of 1 part by mass to 15 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of resin components of the resin particles. With the amount of the carbon black being in this range it is possible to give the above mentioned conductivity as well as a suitable hardness to the CB dispersed resin particles.

As an example of the method of producing CB dispersed resin particles the following methods can be exemplified. There are for example a method in which a resin and a carbon black are kneaded so that the carbon black is dispersed in the resin the dispersed product is cooled to be solidified pulverized to form particles the particles are mechanically processed and thermally treated so as to have a spherical shape and then classified and a method in which a polymerization initiator a carbon black and other additives are added to a polymerizable monomer the monomer composition is suspended for polymerization in an aqueous phase containing a dispersion stabilizer by a stirrer so as to have a predetermined particle diameter.

As the graphitized particles preferred is a substance which contains carbon atoms forming a laminar structure through SPcovalent bond and which has a half value width of a peak derived from graphite at 1 580 cmin a Raman spectrum of 80 cmor lower. The half value width is an indicator of the degree of graphitization and an indicator of broadening of graphite surface in its SPorbit resulting in an indicator of the conductivity of graphitized particles. The lower the half value width is the higher the degree of graphitization will be the wider the graphite distribution will be and the higher the conductivity will be. More preferred range of the half value width is 30 cmto 60 cm. With the half value width being in this range the intensity of local electric fields at the photographic photosensitive member can be reduced as small as possible. As for a value measured under the conditions shown in Table 2 below can be employed.

As the graphitized particles both natural graphite and artificial graphite can be used. In order to produce artificial graphite it is possible to use a method of calcining particles of graphite precursor graphitized particle precursor . The shape and conductivity of resultant graphitized particles can be controlled by selecting the type of graphitized particle precursor and calcination conditions. The shape of the resultant graphitized particles is more or less determined by the shape of the graphitized particle precursor. Specific examples of usable graphitized particle precursor include bulk mesophase pitch mesocarbon microbeads phenol resins phenol resin coated with mesophase and coke coated with a pitch. The conductivity of resultant graphitized particles varies depending on the calcination conditions. Generally graphitized particles obtained by calcination of graphitized particle precursor at higher temperature for a longer period of time will have higher conductivity. Further the conductivity also varies depending on the chemical bond structure of the graphitized particle precursor used. Since the ease of change in crystallinity such as hard graphitization and easy graphitization differs depending on the graphitized particle precursor used the same conductivity could not be obtained even under the same calcination conditions. Specific production methods of the graphitized particles will be described below however the graphitized particles used in the present invention are not limited to those obtained by these production methods.

Graphitized particles obtained by calcination of coke coated with a pitch can be produced by adding a pitch to coke molding the resulting product and then calcining the molded product. As the cokes an oil residue in petroleum distillation and a crude coke obtained by heating a coal tar pitch at a temperature of about 500 C. and the crude coke further heated at a temperature of 1 200 C. or higher and 1 400 C. or lower can be used. As the pitch a pitch obtained as a distillation residue of tar can be used.

As a method for obtaining graphitized particles using these raw materials first a coke is finely pulverized and mixed with a pitch to prepare a mixture the mixture is kneaded under application of heat at a temperature of about 150 C. and the kneaded product is molded using a molding machine. The molded product is subjected to heat treatment at a temperature of 700 C. or higher and 1 000 C. or lower to impart thermal stability to the molded product. Next the molded product is subjected to heat treatment at a temperature of 2 600 C. or higher and 3 000 C. or lower to thereby obtain desired graphitized particles. In the heat treatment it is desired to cover the molded product with packing coke in order to avoid the molded product from being oxidized.

A bulk mesophase pitch can be obtained by extracting resin from coal tar pitch by solvent fractionation and hydrogenating the resin to carry out heavy duty treatment. Also usable is mesophase pitch obtained by finely pulverizing the resin after its heavy duty treatment and then removing the solvent soluble matter using benzene or toluene. The bulk mesophase pitch preferably contains 95 by weight or more of quinoline soluble matter. If a bulk mesophase pitch containing less than 95 by weight of the same is used the interiors of particles can not easily be liquid phase carbonized and hence may come solid phase carbonized to form carbonized particles whose shape is kept in a crushed state. In order to make the particles have a shape close to a spherical shape it is more preferred to control the amount of the quinoline soluble matter.

As a method for obtaining graphitized particles using the mesophase pitch the bulk mesophase pitch is finely pulverized to obtain particles and the particles obtained are subjected to heat treatment in air at 200 C. or higher and 350 C. or lower to carry out oxidation treatment lightly. This oxidation treatment makes the bulk mesophase pitch particles infusible only at their surfaces and the particles are prevented from melting or fusing at the time of heat treatment for graphitization in the subsequent step. The bulk mesophase pitch particles having been subjected to oxidation treatment may preferably have an oxygen content of from 5 by mass or more and 15 by mass or less. If the oxidized bulk mesophase pitch particles have an oxygen content of 5 by mass or more they can be prevented from fusing one another at the time of heat treatment. If the oxidized bulk mesophase pitch particles have an oxygen content of 15 by mass or less they can be prevented from being oxidized up to their interiors and may be graphitized with their shape being in a crushed state making it possible to obtain spherical particles. Next the bulk mesophase pitch particles having been subjected to oxidation treatment are subjected to heat treatment at 1 000 C. or higher and 3 500 C. or lower in an inert atmosphere of nitrogen or argon thereby obtaining the desired graphitized particles.

As a method for obtaining mesocarbon microbeads for example there is for example a method in which coal type heavy oil or petroleum type heavy oil is subjected to heat treatment at a temperature of from 300 C. or higher and 500 C. or lower to effect polycondensation to form crude mesocarbon microbeads then the reaction product is subjected to treatment such as filtration sedimentation by leaving at rest or centrifugation to separate mesocarbon microbeads and thereafter the mesocarbon microbeads are washed with a solvent such as benzene toluene or xylene and further dried to obtain mesocarbon microbeads.

As a method for obtaining graphitized particles using the mesocarbon microbeads the mesocarbon microbeads having been dried are kept mechanically primarily dispersed by a force mild enough not to break them. This is preferred in order to prevent particles from coalescing after graphitization and to obtain uniform particles. The mesocarbon microbeads having been thus kept primarily dispersed are subjected to primary heat treatment at a temperature of from 200 C. or higher and 1 500 C. or lower in an inert atmosphere to produce a carbonized product. The particles of the carbonized product thus obtained are mechanically dispersed by a force mild enough not to break them. This is preferred in order to prevent particles from coalescing after graphitization and to obtain uniform particles. The carbonized particles having been subjected to secondary dispersion treatment are subjected to secondary heat treatment at a temperature of from 1 000 C. or higher and 3 500 C. or lower in an inert atmosphere thereby obtaining desired graphitized particles.

In the surface layer of the present invention it is important to control the height of the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions and graphitized particle derived convex portions. A first element for controlling the height of each of the convex portions is the particle diameters of the CB dispersed resin particles and the graphitized particles. That is it is necessary for the CB dispersed resin particles to select an average particle diameter greater than that of the graphitized particle diameter. More specifically as the CB dispersed resin particles it is desired to use their particles having an average particle diameter of 0.5 m or more especially 3 m or more greater than the average particle diameter of the graphitized particles. The upper limit of the difference in average particle diameter between the CB dispersed resin particles and the graphitized particles is not particularly limited. The difference is however practically 25 m or less especially 15 m or less.

A second element for controlling the height of each of the convex portions is the preparation method of a surface layer forming coating for use in formation of the surface layer. More specifically in the preparation of a surface layer forming coating CB dispersed resin particles and graphitized particles are dispersed in the binder resin. It is important before after this dispersion process to secure the above mentioned relationship of average particle diameters between the CB dispersed resin particles and the graphitized particles. Under ordinary conditions for dispersing a filler in a binder for the purpose of effecting uniform dispersion graphitized particles and CB dispersed resin particles may undesirably crushed. In particular graphitized particles are inherently brittle and easily crushed. There are possibilities that the average particle diameter of graphitized particles could be significantly smaller than the original average particle diameter or on the contrary excessively crushed particles could aggregate to each other to exist as aggregates having a greater average particle diameter in the surface layer forming coating. In light of the above the dispersion conditions are relaxed such as shortening the dispersion time to eliminate the possibility as much as possible that the graphitized particles and CB dispersed resin particles could be crushed in the process of dispersing the graphitized particles and CB dispersed resin particles in the binder resin to prepare the surface layer forming coating. More specifically first components other than the CB dispersed resin particles and the graphitized particles for example conductive fine particles are mixed along with glass beads in the binder resin and dispersed over 24 hours to 36 hours using a paint shaker dispersion machine. Next CB dispersed resin particles and graphitized particles are added to the dispersion and further dispersed. The dispersion time at this stage is one minute to 60 minutes preferably 5 minutes to 10 minutes. With this it is possible to prevent the graphitized particles and CB dispersed resin particles from being crushed and to virtually secure the original relationship of average particle diameters between the CB dispersed resin particles and the graphitized particles in the surface layer forming coating.

A third element for controlling the height of each of the convex portions is the thickness of the surface layer. The surface layer can be formed by applying in a predetermined thickness a surface layer forming coating in which a binder resin CB dispersed resin particles and graphitized particles are dispersed onto a support or an elastic layer formed on the support by a known method. On this occasion it is desired that the film thickness of the surface layer to the average particle diameter A m of the CB dispersed resin particles be A 3 to 10A especially A 2 to 5A. When the surface layer is made excessively thick the CB dispersed resin particles and graphitized particles are embedded in the surface layer and undesirably convex portions having desired heights may not be formed on the surface layer. With the thickness of the surface layer being in the above range each of the particle diameters of the CB dispersed resin particles and the graphitized particles can affect the height of the CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions and the height of the graphitized particle derived convex portions. Here the amount of the CB dispersed resin particles added to the surface layer coating is preferably 2 parts by mass to 80 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the binder resin particularly preferably 5 parts by mass to 40 parts by mass. The amount of the graphitized particles added to the surface layer coating is preferably 0.5 parts by mass to 40 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the binder resin particularly preferably 1 part by mass to 20 parts by mass. Then a ratio of the addition amount of the CB dispersed resin particles to the addition amount of the graphitized particles is in terms of mass ratio from 0.1 to 10 more preferably from 0.5 to 2. With this The CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions can be allowed to exist around almost all the graphitized particle derived convex portions. As a result for almost all the graphitized particle derived convex portions the distance of the graphitized particle derived convex portions is positive from a plane surface including each vertex of three CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions adjacent to the graphitized particle derived convex portions. The thickness of the surface layer can be controlled by suitably controlling the solid content viscosity and coating speed of the after mentioned surface layer coating. The higher the solid content the viscosity and the coating speed of the surface layer coating are the thicker the film thickness can be. As the values of the film thickness cross sections of the surface layer are measured at three points in an axial direction and three points in a circumferential direction i.e. nine points in total. The cross sections are observed by an optical microscope an electron microscope or the like and an average value of the measured values can be employed.

As a coating method of the surface layer forming coating there are for example slit coating roll coating ring coating spray coating and dip coating. Particularly when dip coating is employed the CB dispersed resin particles and graphitized particles are less likely to be crushed in coating process. For this reason the original relationship of average diameters between the CB dispersed resin particle and the graphitized particles is easily secured and thus dip coating is favorably employed.

The surface layer may contain an ion conductive agent and an electron conductive agent without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Further for the purpose of uniformly improving the electric resistance of the surface layer controlling the dielectric constant and the coefficient of elasticity thereof insulating inorganic fine particles may be added to the surface layer. As the inorganic fine particles particles of silica and titanium oxide are preferred.

A coating film after applying the surface layer coating is preferably heated and exposed to ultraviolet ray or an electron beam or subjected to moisture to accelerate crosslinking because thereby it is possible to prevent resin particles and graphitized particles contained in the surface layer from falling off.

The charging roller of the present invention may include layers having other functions within the range not impairing the functions of the conductive support and the surface layer. By way of example as illustrated in there may be exemplified a configuration in which a conductive elastic layer is provided between the conductive support and the surface layer .

As a rubber constituting the conductive elastic layer epichlorohydrin rubber nitrile rubber NBR chloroprene rubber urethane rubber and silicone rubber are exemplified. As thermoplastic elastomers styrene butadiene styrene block copolymer SBS and styrene ethylenebutylene styrene block copolymer SEBS are exemplified. Among these epichlorohydrin rubber is preferably used because the rubber itself have conductivity of about 1 10 cm to about 1 10 cm in intermediately resistive regions and can prevent a variation in electric resistance of the conductive elastic layer. Specific examples of the epichlorohydrin rubber include epichlorohydrin EP monopolymers EP ethylene oxide EO copolymers EP acryl glycidyl ether AGE copolymers and EP EO AGE terpolymers. Among these particularly preferred are EP EO AGE terpolymers because the conductivity and processability of the conductive elastic layer can be controlled by controlling the polymerization degree and composition ratio of EP EO AGE terpolymers and by using EP EO AGE terpolymers an elastic layer having high mechanical strength and high conductivity can be obtained. In the conductive elastic layer typical compounding agents can be used within the range not impairing the properties such as conductivity and mechanical strength required for the charging roller of the present invention.

As a method of forming an elastic layer a method can be exemplified in which raw materials of these rubber and elastomer and compounding agents to be compounded as required are kneaded and then molded. As a method of kneading the raw materials a method of using a sealed kneader such as a Banbury mixer intermix mixer and pressurizing kneader and a method of using an open kneader such as an open roll can be used. As a method of forming a kneaded product on the conductive support a molding method such as an extrusion molding injection molding and compression molding can be used. In consideration of working efficiency cross head extrusion molding is preferred in which a kneaded product to be formed into an elastic layer is extruded together with the conductive support. As the conductive support a conductive support coated with an adhesive intended for adhesion with the elastic layer can also be used as required within the range not losing high conductivity of the conductive support. As the adhesive thermosetting resins and thermoplastic resins containing conductive agent are exemplified. Specifically a urethane resin adhesive acrylic resin adhesive polyester resin adhesive polyether resin adhesive and epoxy resins adhesive can be used. Afterward when it is necessary to carry out crosslinking of the elastic layer it is desired that the elastic layer undergo a crosslinking process such as crosslinking during molding crosslinking using a vulcanizer continuous crosslinking crosslinking by far far near infrared radiation and crosslinking by induction heating. A molded elastic layer may be ground to smooth the surface thereof and to precisely finish the shape thereof. As the grinding method traverse grinding mode and wide width grinding mode can be employed. In the traverse grinding mode a roller surface is ground by moving a short grindstone along the surface thereof. In contrast in the wide width grinding mode a surface of the elastic layer is ground using a wide width grindstone i.e. a grindstone having a width longer than the length of the elastic layer in a short period of time. In terms of the working efficiency the wide width grinding mode is preferred.

As the hardness of the elastic layer it is appropriate for the elastic layer to have a microhardness of from 30 to 80 more preferably from 45 to 65 . With the hardness of the elastic layer being within the above range when the charging roller is contacted with a photographic photosensitive member a distance between a vertex of the resin particle derived convex portion and a vertex of the graphitized particle derived convex portion can be maintained at a distance therebetween in a state where the charging roller is not contacted with the photographic photosensitive member. With this it is possible to prevent the occurrence of discharge nonuniformity due to the narrow nip width. Here as the microhardness a value measured by the following method can be employed. A charging roller which is left standing in an environment of normal temperature and normal relative humidity 23 C. 55 RH for 12 hours or longer. The charging roller is intended to measure the microhardness by using a micro area rubber hardness meter ASKER MD 1 manufactured by Kobunshi Keiki Co. Ltd. in a 10 N peak hold mode.

The surface of the charging roller of the present invention preferably has such a ten point average roughness Rzjis that a common charging roller has. Specifically the charging roller has a Rzjis of about 2 m to about 30 m and a Sm of about 15 m to about 150 m. Concerning the ten point average roughness Rzjis and the average irregularity interval Sm of the surface of the charging roller values determined by a measurement method according to the surface roughness defined in JIS B0601 2001 can be employed. In the surface roughness measurement a surface roughness meter SE 3400 manufactured by Kosaka K.K. can be used. Here Sm is an average interval measured between 10 point irregularities 10 point concavo convexes in the measurement length. As values of Rzjis and Sm the charging roller is randomly measured at six portions thereof and an average value obtained from the measured results can be employed. As the measurement length a standard measurement length defined in JIS B0601 2001 is used. The electric resistance of the charging roller may be a typical value of a contact type charging roller. More specifically it is about 1 10 to about 1 10 in an environment of a temperature of 23 C. and a relative humidity RH of 50 .

Hereinafter the present invention will be further described in detail with reference to specific examples.

A resin that had been extracted from a coal tar pitch by solvent fractionation was hydrogenated. Next solvent soluble matter was removed from the hydrogenated product thus obtained using toluene to yield a bulk mesophase pitch. The bulk mesophase pitch was mechanically pulverized so as to have a volume average particle diameter of approximately 3 m. Afterward the pulverized product was oxidized by heating to a temperature of 270 C. in the open air at a temperature increase rate of 300 C. h. Subsequently the product was heated to 3 000 C. in a nitrogen atmosphere at a temperature increase rate of 1 500 C. h and subjected to calcination at a temperature of 3 000 C. for 15 minutes and then subjected to classification thereby obtaining Graphitized particle 1.

Phenol resin particles having a volume average particle diameter of 10.0 m was subjected to air classification to obtain phenol resin particles having a volume average particle diameter of 10.0 m and a sharp particle size distribution. The phenol resin particles were thermally stabilized in the presence of an oxidizing atmosphere at 300 C. for 1 hour and then calcined at 2 200 C. The resulting particles were subjected to air classification thereby obtaining Graphitized particle 2.

Average particle diameters of Graphitized particles 1 to 3 measured by the method described above are shown in Table 3.

A 2 L volumetric autoclave with the atmosphere therein sufficiently replaced with nitrogen gas and dried was charged with the following materials and further sufficiently replaced with nitrogen gas from above. Then the materials were sealed off and mixed with stirring at a temperature of 120 C. for 20 hours to react with each other. Thereafter unreacted HDI was removed from the reaction product under reduced pressure and toluene was added to the reaction product to obtain a polyisocyanate prepolymer having a nonvolatile content of 90 by mass.

polyol ADEKA POLYETHER G 700 produced by Asahi Denka Kogyo K.K. hydroxyl value 225 mg KOHg 75 parts by mass

The resulting polyisocyanate prepolymer was found to have an isocyanate content of 8.73 and a viscosity of 1 500 cps 25 C. . Next the resulting polyisocyanate prepolymer and a carbon black 3350B produced by Mitsubishi Chemical Co. Ltd. average particle diameter 24 nm were placed in water containing a suspension stabilizer calcium phosphate and were then mixed and stirred to obtain a suspension. Subsequently the suspension was heated to initiate a reaction so as to be sufficiently reacted to produce CB dispersed resin particles. Afterwards the CB dispersed resin particles were separated into a liquid phase and a solid phase and the solid phase was washed to remove the suspension stabilizer adhering on the CB dispersed resin particles and was dried thereby obtaining Resin Particle 1. Resin Particle 1 was found to have an average particle diameter of 5.8 m.

CB Dispersed Resin Particles 2 to 8 each having an average particle diameter shown in Table 4 were produced in the same manner as in Production Example 3 except that the mixed amount of the carbon black was changed as shown in the following Table 4 and the concentration of the suspension stabilizer and the number of stirring revolutions were arbitrarily adjusted. Note that the mixed amount of carbon black shown in Table 4 is an amount expressed by part s by mass to 100 parts by mass of the polyisocyanate prepolymer.

The following materials were mixed and dispersed by a viscomill type dispersing machine to obtain Mixture 1. The dispersion was carried out by using as a dispersion medium zirconia beads of 0.5 mm in diameter and setting a circumferential speed to 10 m s for 60 hours.

Next Mixture 1 and Mixture 2 were charged into a 2 litter four necked flask equipped with a high speed stirring device TK type homomixer manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation and dispersed at 13 000 rpm to obtain a dispersion liquid. Then this dispersion liquid was poured into a polymerization vessel equipped with a stirrer and a thermometer the atmosphere in the polymerization vessel was replaced with nitrogen gas and then the dispersion liquid was stirred at 55 rpm at a reaction temperature of 60 C. for 12 hours to complete suspension polymerization. The resulting reaction product was cooled and then subjected to filtration washing drying and classification thereby obtaining Resin Particle 9.

CB Dispersed Resin Particles 10 and 11 each having an average particle diameter shown in Table 4 were produced in the same manner as in Production Example 4 except that the mixed amount of the carbon black was changed as shown in the following Table 4 and the number of stirring revolutions was arbitrarily adjusted.

styrene dimethylaminoethylmethacrylate divinylbenzene copolymer copolymerization ratio 90 10 0.05 100 parts by mass

The resulting kneaded product was cooled and coarsely crushed by a hammer mill so as to have a particle diameter of 1 mm or smaller. Subsequently the crushed particles were finely pulverized by a turbo mill trade name T 250 manufactured by Turbo Kogyo Co. Ltd. . The circumferential speed of the rotator was set to 115 m s. Subsequently the particles were made to have a substantially spherical shape for 30 minutes using a hybridizer manufactured by Nara Machinery Co. Ltd. . Further the particles were subjected to air classification thereby obtaining CB Dispersed Resin Particle 12.

CB Dispersed Resin Particles 13 and 14 each having an average particle diameter shown in Table 4 were produced in the same manner as in Production Example 5 except that the mixed amount of the carbon black was changed as shown in the following Table 4 and the number of revolutions of the rotator was adjusted.

In 7.0 kg of silica particles average particle diameter 15 nm volume resistivity 1.8 10 cm 140 g of methylhydrogenpolysiloxane was added while operating an edge runner. The components were stirred and mixed for 30 minutes under a linear load of 588N cm 60 kg cm . The stirring speed was adjusted to 22 rpm. In the resulting mixture 7.0 kg of carbon black particles average particle diameter 28 nm volume resistivity 1.0 10 cm were added over 10 minutes while operating an edge runner and further stirred and mixed for 60 minutes under a linear load of 588N cm 60 kg cm to make the carbon black particles adhered on surfaces of silica particles coated with methylhydrogenpolysiloxane. Afterward the resulting particles were dried at 80 C. for 60 minutes using a dryer to obtain a composite electronically conductive agent. The stirring speed was adjusted to 22 rpm. The resulting composite electronically conductive agent was found to have an average particle diameter of 47 nm and a volume resistivity of 2.3 10 cm.

In 1 000 g of acicular rutile type titanium oxide particles average particle diameter 15 nm volume resistivity 5.2 10 cm 110 g of isobutyltrimethoxysilane as a surface treatment agent and 3 000 g of toluene as a solvent were mixed to prepare a slurry. The slurry was mixed for 30 minutes by a stirrer and then supplied to a visco mill filled with glass beads having an average particle diameter of 0.8 mm in an amount of 80 of the effective internal volume of the visco mill. The slurry was wet pulverized at a temperature of 35 C. 5 C. The slurry obtained by the wet pulverization was subjected to distillation under reduced pressure to remove the toluene therefrom and the surface treatment agent was baked at 120 C. for 2 hours. The baked particles were cooled to room temperature and pulverized by a pin mill thereby obtaining surface treated titanium oxide fine particles having an average particle diameter of 17 nm.

An iron cylindrical body having a diameter of 6 mm and a length of 252.5 mm was coated with a thermosetting adhesive trade name METALOCK U 20 produced by Toyo Kagaku Kenkyusho Co. Ltd. and dried and the cylindrical body was used as a conductive support.

The following materials were kneaded for 10 minutes by a sealed mixer whose inside temperature was set to 50 C. to prepare a raw material compound.

The following materials were added to the resulting raw material compound and kneaded for 10 minutes by an open roll which had been cooled to 20 C. to obtain a conductive elastic layer compound.

The conductive elastic layer compound was extruded together with the conductive support through a cross head extruder so as to be molded in the form of a roller having an external diameter of about 9 mm. Next the molded conductive support was heated in an electric oven the temperature thereof being maintained at 160 C. for 1 hour to vulcanize the rubber and make the adhesive crosslinked. Both ends of the rubber were cut off so that the conductive support was exposed out of the rubber and the length of the conductive elastic layer was 228 mm. Subsequently the surface of the conductive support was ground so as to be formed in a roller having an external diameter of 8.5 mm thereby obtaining an elastic layer.

The following materials were placed together with glass beads having an average particle diameter of 0.8 mm in a glass bottle and dispersed for 60 hours using a paint shaker dispersing device to prepare Coating material 1.

caprolactone modified acrylic polyol solution trade name PLACCEL DC2016 produced by Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd. solid content 70 by mass 100 parts by mass

block isocyanate HDI trade name DURANATE TPA B80E produced by Asahi Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. 33.6 parts by mass

modified dimethylsilicone oil trade name SH28PA TORAY Dow Corning Silicone Co. Ltd. 0.16 parts by mass

The following materials were placed together with glass beads having an average particle diameter of 0.8 mm in a glass bottle and dispersed for 60 hours using a paint shaker dispersing device to prepare Coating material 2.

The following materials were placed together with glass beads having an average particle diameter of 0.8 mm in a glass bottle and dispersed for 60 hours using a paint shaker dispersing device to prepare Coating material 3.

fluorine resin dispersion tetrafluoroethylene perfluoroalkyl vinyl ether copolymer PFA trade name AD 2CR aqueous dispersion produced by Daikin Industries Ltd. concentration of solid content 45 by mass to 50 by mass specific gravity 1.4 viscosity 25 C. 250 mPa s to 500 mPa s 200 parts by mass

Coating material 4 was produced in the same manner as in Production Example 9 except that in the preparation of Coating material 1 in Production Example 9 the amount of the composite electronically conductive agent was changed to 14 parts by mass.

Coating material 5 was produced in the same manner as in Production Example 9 except that in the preparation of Coating material 1 in Production Example 9 the amount of the composite electronically conductive agent was changed to 49 parts by mass.

Coating material 6 was produced in the same manner as in Production Example 9 except that in the preparation of Coating material 1 in Production Example 9 the amount of the MIBK was changed to 220 parts by mass.

Coating material 7 was produced in the same manner as in Production Example 9 except that in the preparation of Coating material 1 in Production Example 9 the amount of the MIBK was changed to 616 parts by mass.

After the following materials were added in Coating material 1 the materials were dispersed for 5 minutes by a paint shaker dispersing device and the glass beads were filtered out therefrom to obtain Surface Layer Coating material A.

Surface Layer Coating material A was applied to a surface of the elastic layer formed in Production Example 8 by dip coating. Afterward the coating was air dried at normal temperature for 30 minutes or more heated in an electric oven at a temperature of 80 C. for 1 hour and further heated at 160 C. for 1 hour to make a film of Surface Layer Coating material A crosslinked thereby forming a surface layer of 11.6 m in thickness. By the above described procedure a charging roller having an elastic layer and a surface layer on a conductive support was obtained. As to the resulting charging roller electric current values of I A I B and I C were measured by AFM. Also a ratio of the number of graphitized particle derived convex portions having a distance as a positive value from a plane surface including each vertex of convex portions derived from three CB dispersed resin particle derived convex portions adjacent to graphitized particle derived convex portions to the total number of graphitized particle derived convex portions was determined. The measurement results are shown in Table 6.

Image formation was carried out using the resulting charging roller in the following manner to evaluate the image formed. Specifically an electrophotographic apparatus LBP5400 manufactured by Canon Inc. was remodeled so that the output speed of a recording medium was 200 mm sec and the charging roller thus produced was attached to a black cartridge in the remodeled machine. An entire blank image was output after setting V a voltage obtained by subtracting a voltage applied to a developing roller from a surface potential of the electrophotographic photosensitive member to 20V and 70V. Since the toner placed in the electrophotographic apparatus is a negatively chargeable toner the value of Vis usually set to about 70V to about 150V. With the voltage of Vbeing set to 20V and 70V the toner is not developed on a surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member under normal circumstances. Setting of Vto 20V was employed because this voltage setting correlates to the image density of non latent image portions at from about 70V to about 150V and a difference of image density in non latent image portions can be clearly discriminated. It is presumed that a toner developed under this condition is developed because the toner is trapped by local electric fields across the surface of the electrophotographic photosensitive member due to nonuniformity of potential on the electrophotographic photosensitive member which is produced by nonuniform discharge of a charging roller. The image was output by the remodeled machine thus configured under an environment of a temperature of 15 C. and a relative humidity of 10 . The degree of whiteness of the image output when setting the Vto 20V was measured using a whiteness photometer trade name TC 6DS A produced by Tokyo Denshoku Co. Ltd. according to the method defined in JIS P8148. A difference in degree of whiteness indicating a degree of increased image density in non latent image portions was calculated by subtracting the average value of five points of degree of whiteness of paper sheets after the image output from the average value of five points of degree of whiteness of paper sheets before the image output.

Meanwhile as to the degree of whiteness of the image output when setting the Vto 70V a difference in image density before after image output was visually observed and evaluated according to the following criteria. The results are shown in Table 6.

A lower than 2.0 A difference in image density before and after image output cannot be distinguished. 

B equal to or higher than 2.0 and lower than 5.0 It can be distinguished that the image density after image output is very slightly higher than the image density before image output. 

C equal to or higher than 5.0 and lower than 7.0 It can be distinguished that the image density after image output is slightly higher than the image density before image output. 

D 7.0 or higher It can be clearly distinguished that the image density after image output is higher than the image density before image output. 

Image output was carried out in the same manner as in the measurement of the degree of increased image density in non latent image portions except that the image output conditions were changed to the following conditions. A sheet of image was output using an image randomly printed at 1 area of an image formation area of A4 size paper the operation of the electrophotographic apparatus was stopped and 10 seconds later the image forming operation was restarted. This operation was repeated and 30 000 sheets of electrophotographic images were formed. Thereafter electrophotographic images for evaluation were formed. The electrophotographic images for evaluation were halftone images an image with an intermediate image density which is a one dot width horizontal line in two dot intervals was drawn in a direction perpendicular to the rotational direction of the electrophotographic photosensitive member . Printed images were evaluated according to the following criteria. The results are shown in Table 6.

B Image nonuniformity due to a streak running in the lateral direction in short length shorter than 1 mm is observed but no problem in practical use.

C Image nonuniformity due to a streak running in the lateral direction in long length from several mm to several cm is observed.

Surface layer forming coatings were prepared in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the Coating material Graphitized particle and CB dispersed resin particle were changed to those shown in Table 5 below. Charging rollers were produced using these surface layer forming coatings in the same manner as in Example 1. Each of the resulting charging rollers was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. The evaluation results are shown in Table 6 below.

After the following materials were added in Coating material 2 the materials were dispersed for 5 minutes by a paint shaker dispersing device and the glass beads were filtered out therefrom to obtain Surface Layer Coating material B.

Surface Layer Coating material B was applied to a surface of the elastic layer formed in Production Example 8 by ring coating. Afterward the Surface Layer Coating material B was crosslinked using an electron beam irradiating device ELECTOROBEAM C EC150 45 40 mA manufactured by Iwasaki Denki K.K. thereby obtaining a charging roller. More specifically an electron beam was irradiated at an acceleration voltage of 150 kV a radiation dose of 1 200 kGy and an oxygen concentration of 300 ppm or lower. The resulting charging roller was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. The evaluation results are shown in Table 8.

Surface layer forming coatings were prepared in the same manner as in Example 17 except that the Coating material Graphitized particle and CB dispersed resin particle were changed to those shown in Table 7 below. Charging rollers were produced using these surface layer forming coatings in the same manner as in Example 17. Each of the resulting charging rollers was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 17. The evaluation results are shown in Table 8 below.

After the following materials were added relative to 200 parts by mass of the fluorine resin dispersion in Coating material 3 the materials were dispersed for 5 minutes by a paint shaker dispersing device and the glass beads were filtered out therefrom to obtain Surface Layer Coating material C.

Surface Layer Coating material C was applied to a surface of the elastic layer by spray coating. Afterward the Surface Layer Coating material C was heated at 320 C. for 40 minutes thereby obtaining a charging roller. The resulting charging roller was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. The evaluation results are shown in Table 8.

Surface layer forming coatings were prepared in the same manner as in Example 20 except that the Coating material Graphitized particle and CB dispersed resin particle were changed to those shown in Table 7 below. Charging rollers were produced using these surface layer forming coatings in the same manner as in Example 20. Each of the resulting charging rollers was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 20. The evaluation results are shown in Table 8 below.

Surface layer forming coatings were prepared in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the Graphitized particle and CB dispersed resin particle were changed to those shown in Table 9 below. Charging rollers were produced using these surface layer forming coatings in the same manner as in Example 1. Each of the resulting charging rollers was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. The evaluation results are shown in Table 10 below.

The comparison results of degree of whiteness between Examples and Comparative Examples shown in Tables 6 8 and 10 above demonstrated that with use of the charging roller of the present invention an effect of preventing the occurrence of fogging of electrophotographic images can be improved about 50 or more.

While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

This patent application claims a priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2008 281599 filed on Oct. 31 2008 the disclosure of which are incorporated herein by reference.

