---

title: Monitoring federation for cloud based services and applications
abstract: Technologies are described herein for cloud monitoring federations that can include cloud monitoring services (CMS) that collect monitoring information from point of presence (POP) agents. The cloud monitoring POPs may be located in the cloud, on client machines, embedded within cloud applications, or wherever they can obtain visibility into managed entities associated with the cloud. Management systems, acting as cloud monitoring clients (CMC), may interface with the CMS to obtain a complete view of services and application used by their enterprise including those that operate outside of the enterprise premises as part of a cloud or outside network. The publishing by POPs and consumption by CMCs of management information across components within the enterprise and out in the cloud may be supported by managing roles, responsibilities, scopes, security boundaries, authenticity of information, service level agreements, and other aspects of cloud monitoring operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745397&OS=08745397&RS=08745397
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08745397
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100104
---
Management systems such as those used in information technology IT operations can track various services and applications. Traditionally these services and applications are located and operated within the physical premises of the enterprise. With the increasing deployment of cloud based services web based applications software as a service service oriented architectures and so forth the locations of services and applications are crossing physical jurisdictional and security boundaries.

Traditional IT management systems are generally not equipped to provide visibility into or control of services and applications that reside outside the jurisdiction of the enterprise IT operation. Traditional applications and services do not adapt to the health of other cloud components even though such information could support decision making to improve customer experiences or reduce costs. Also traditional IT management systems cannot provide a complete view of service quality from inside and from outside an organization. This limitation is particularly present where related applications or services are hosted in a cloud or are hosted internally and in a cloud simultaneously.

Technologies are described herein for cloud monitoring federations that can include cloud monitoring services CMS that collect monitoring information from point of presence POP agents. The cloud monitoring POPs may be located in the cloud on client machines embedded within cloud applications or wherever they can obtain visibility into managed entities associated with the cloud. As used herein the cloud may refer to a network environment for providing abstracted access to services applications and data located within the network. Through the utilization of the technologies and concepts presented herein management systems acting as cloud monitoring clients CMC may interface with the CMS to obtain a complete view of services and applications used by their enterprise including those that operate outside of the enterprise premises as part of a cloud or outside network. The publishing by POPs and consumption by CMCs of management information across components within the enterprise and out in the cloud may be supported by managing roles responsibilities scopes security boundaries authenticity of information service level agreements and other aspects of cloud monitoring operations.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to technologies for cloud based service and application monitoring. Through the utilization of the technologies and concepts presented herein cloud monitoring clients can interface with a cloud monitoring service to obtain a complete view of services and applications used within an enterprise including those that operate outside of the enterprise premises as part of a cloud or outside network. As mentioned briefly above a cloud a network environment for providing abstracted access to services applications and data located within the network.

Examples of cloud based services may include service oriented architectures SOA where entire service components may be owned and operated by outside organizations. Other examples may include hosted cloud services where a complete or partial service may be hosted on an enterprise or third party hosting service. The hosting service may host a virtual machine or application components. Other examples may provide a platform of cloud services for enterprise service use. For example a passport authentication service a credit card validation system or a cloud database system may be used as cloud services by other enterprise services. Other examples may include software as a service SaaS such as applications that enterprise end users may access via a network or the World Wide Web.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements through the several figures concepts and technologies for cloud based service and application monitoring will be described.

Turning now to a block diagram illustrates a cloud monitoring federation CMF according to one or more embodiments presented herein. The CMF is a federation formed between various networked entities to support cloud based service and application monitoring. The CMF may include a cloud monitoring service CMS . The CMS can serve as a central subscription and publication service. The CMS can collect information monitored by a cloud monitoring point of presence POP . The POP can monitor and aggregate information published from one or more managed entities MEs within a cloud . A cloud monitoring client CMC can subscribe to the CMS to consume published management information related to the MEs .

The CMS is a cloud based distributed service that acts as a centralized and dynamic repository of management information related to MEs . The MEs may be services or applications distributed within the cloud . The management information may include health metrics performance metrics and various other statistics associated with the MEs .

The CMS can register customers as CMCs POPs or both. Registration can unite the CMS CMCs and POPs to form the CMF . Publication and subscription protocols may support the POP to publish monitored information to the CMS . Similarly the protocols may support subscribing by the CMC to the CMS to receive the monitored information. Negotiation protocols may be used to determine which POPs may publish what pieces of information into the CMS and also which CMCs may access which pieces of information from the CMS . These protocols may also support the discovery of other actors present on a network such as CMSs CMCs and POPs . The registration processes can provide security within the CMF to protect against unauthorized or invalid publishing of information by POPs or undesired access to information by CMCs .

The CMS may provide the POP with role and scope based update rights. Such rights may define roles and scopes for the POP as to which MEs it may report on. The roles and scopes may also include details such as how frequently the reporting should occur at what level of detail and to where it should be published. The CMS may also provide role and scope based access rights to the CMC to define which ME related information may be accessed or subscribed to.

Elements within the CMF such as POPs MEs CMSs and CMCs may be uniquely identified from one another using any type of unique identification tokens. Unique identification of each element may be useful in defining roles scopes or other parameters associated with the elements. According to some embodiments a representational state transfer REST model may be used. For example actors within the CMF may be identified by uniform resource identifiers URIs .

The POP and the CMS can each maintain models for the MEs that the POP utilizes to report information on to the CMS . These models may include relationships between the MEs and may be classified by types of instances. For example a specific desktop computer may be an instance of the type computer. Using common models of a format understood by multiple actors in the CMF can support simplified transfer and aggregation of monitored information. The CMS can receive aggregate and update metrics statistics health and other information related to MEs as published by the associated POPs . The CMS can manage redundancy of information that may accrue due to multiple points of view on a ME . For example the CMS can monitor and manage the scopes provided to POPs to reduce the redundant points of view.

The CMS can respond to queries or subscription requests from CMCs seeking to access monitored information at the CMS . The CMS may support a query language for receiving queries from CMCs . For example a query language based on an extensible markup language XML such as object constraint language OCL may be used. The CMS can manage the throttling of information published from the POPs . For example the CMS may request a POP to slow down or halt publication. Also the CMS may gate individual POP functionality on and off based on the interest levels of subscribing CMCs .

A CMCs can negotiate a monitoring policy with a CMS . The monitoring policy may include one or more of a monitoring frequency a number of POPs to monitor a location of a POP to monitor and a filtering specification.

An ME may be any service or a component of a service under management. According to some embodiments the ME may not be an active participant in the CMF . Instead the ME may be an instance within the managed world that can be discovered and related to other instances or MEs . Metrics statistics health status and other information about the MEs may be posted to or queried from the CMS . According to some other embodiments the ME may participate as a POP and publish information related to internal or dependent components. It should be appreciated that the aggregation and caching of monitored information may occur at a POP a CMS a CMC or any combination thereof.

Turning now to a block diagram illustrates additional detail regarding a cloud monitoring federation CMF according to one or more embodiments presented herein. The CMF may include a cloud monitoring service CMS serving as a central subscription and publication service. The CMS can collect information on MEs within a cloud that are monitored by a POP A. The CMS can also collect information on a virtual machine VM within a virtual cloud that is monitored by a POP B.

A CMC A may be associated with a management server to support subscription and querying activities from the management server into the CMS . The management server may also manage internal services to support simultaneous monitoring of instances within internal services within a cloud and within a virtual cloud . According to some embodiments a CMC B may be associated with an ME . Such an ME may used the CMC B to subscribe to the CMS in order to obtain management information about itself. Such information at the ME about itself may support determining health or status as part of a self test. The information may also support failover or various scheduling decisions.

The POPs A and B may be referred to collectively or in general as POPs . The POPs may be web service endpoints that monitor MEs on a continuous or periodic basis and posts the monitored information to the CMS . A POP may be implemented as any entity that can collect management information and publish it to the CMS . According to some examples the POP may be an agent executing in association with one or more clients a watcher service executing in association with a cloud service a component executing in the context of a managed cloud application an agent executing on a VM within a virtual cloud any other such entity or any combination thereof.

A POP may claim an identity to a CMS as part of a registration process. The POP may receive authorization based on those claims once authenticated. The POP may also as part of registration declare its location capabilities and monitoring scope. The POP may then be provided by the CMS with roles and scopes as to which specific MEs the POP should monitor and to what level and at what frequency. For example the roles and scopes may specify monitoring frequency aggregation filtering and publishing frequency for the POP . The POP may publish to more than one CMS at a time and under different roles and scopes.

The various clients discussed such as CMC CMC A and CMC B may be referred to collectively or in general as CMCs . A CMC may claim an identity to a CMS as part of a registration process. The CMC may receive authorization based on those claims once authenticated. The CMC may also as part of registration declare a desired monitoring scope. The CMC may periodically negotiate its subscription to monitoring information from the CMS . For example the CMC may negotiate to alter monitoring frequency identity of POPs or MEs location of POPs and other parameters of the monitoring information to which it subscribes.

The management server may be a CMC A which can register with the CMS subscribe to delivery of management information negotiate the quality of service QOS of the subscriptions and also specify regular periodic or on demand delivery of monitored information. The management server may combine the monitored information from the CMF with monitored information from internal services to provide a full inside out and outside in view into services and applications of interest to the enterprise.

An example of an outside in monitoring function may apply to a web site or web service hosted within the enterprise. A POP located outside of the enterprise may be tasked with monitoring the web site or web service to determine the health or status of outside links connecting into the service. The information once collected at the external POP may be published to the management server back inside the enterprise. An example of an inside out monitoring function may apply to determining the health of services hosted outside the enterprise from a POP located within the enterprise. For example if a cloud based service for validating credit card transactions for a specific type of credit card is not accessible the published health status may allow a web server located within the enterprise to depopulate that specific type of credit card as a purchase option for online commerce. Once the validation service is restored the respective payment option may be returned to the online commerce site.

It should be appreciated that the management server may also be a CMC and or a POP . Operations associated with a CMC a CMS and a POP may be distributed onto various and multiple entities or assembled together in any combinations and multiplicities as may be meaningful to publish consume or centralize cloud monitoring activities. The functionality associated with a POP or a CMC may be provided as libraries or software development kits SDK . These libraries or SDKs may support integrating the CMF elements together or integrating them into other modules according to these various embodiments.

Referring now to additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein for cloud based service and application monitoring. In particular is a flow diagram illustrating a method for a CMS according to embodiments presented herein. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may be performed sequentially in parallel or in a different order than as described herein.

The method begins at operation where the CMS interfaces with a POP . The CMS may register the POP using a claims based security policy. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMS may interface with a CMC . The CMS may register the CMC using a claims based security policy. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMS manages rights associated with the POP to provide information about an ME . According to the claims based security policy established for the POP at operation the CMS may specify which MEs the POP may publish monitoring information on. The CMS may also specify various parameters related to the publishing. For example monitoring frequency publishing frequency aggregation processing filtering level of detail and so forth. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMS receives information about the ME from the POP . As the POP collects management information related to the ME that information may be published by the POP to the CMS . The management information related to the ME may include health status performance metrics operating statistics and various other parameters. The CMS may manage the throttling of published information from the POP . The CMS may also manage the redundancy of published information from the POP by monitoring and adjusting the scope of the POP . From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMS aggregates the information about the ME . Aggregation of monitored management information may occur at the CMS the POP the CMC or any combination thereof. The monitored management information related to the ME may be stored in a cache buffer database file system any other data storage device mechanism or system or any combination thereof. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMS manages the rights of the CMC to request information about the ME . According to the claims based security policy established for the CMC at operation the CMC may be able to access information related to specified MEs a specified rates and specified levels of detail. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMS receives a query from the CMC . The CMC may query or subscribe to monitored management information from the CMS . This information may relate to the MEs as the information is published to the CMS from the POP . From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMS provides the information about the ME to the CMC in response to the received query of operation being related to the ME . From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMS provides publication and subscription services with the POPs and the CMCs . The method may terminate after operation or the method may be repeated continuously or periodically.

Referring now to additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein for cloud based service and application monitoring. In particular is a flow diagram illustrating a method for a cloud monitoring point of presence POP according to embodiments presented herein. The method begins at operation where the POP interfaces with an ME . For example a network connection may be established between the POP and the ME . Establishing this connection may include a discovery process to identify MEs available for monitoring within access to the POP .

It should be appreciated that the POP may not have direct network connectivity with the ME as the POP may obtain information about the ME indirectly. Also the ME may not actively participate in the CMF . The CMF may merely observe the ME . From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the POP registers with a CMS . The POP may register with the CMS using a claims based security policy. According to such a policy the POP may make claims as to the identity capabilities or affiliations of the POP . The CMS may attempt to authenticate the claims of the POP . The POP may establish subscription and publication relationships with the CMS as part of the registration process. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the POP receives monitoring roles scopes or policies from the CMS . For example a scope may indicate to the POP which MEs it should monitor. Similarly a policy may specify to the POP various parameters such as monitoring frequency processing publishing frequency aggregation filtering and so forth. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the POP aggregates information related to the ME in a local cache. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the POP transmits or publishes to the CMS any monitored management information related to the ME . The method may terminate after operation or the method may be repeated continuously or periodically.

Referring now to additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein for cloud based service and application monitoring. In particular is a flow diagram illustrating a method for a cloud monitoring client according to embodiments presented herein. The method begins at operation where the CMC registers with a CMS . The CMC may register with the CMS using a claims based security policy. According to such a policy the CMC may make claims as to the identity capabilities or affiliations of the CMC . The CMS may attempt to authenticate the claims of the CMC . The CMC may establish subscription and publication relationships with the CMS as part of the registration process. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMC negotiates rights to access information regarding MEs from the CMS . The CMC may also negotiate subscription policies such as monitoring frequency number of POPs monitored location of POPs monitored and so forth. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMC transmits a query to the CMS . The CMC may also provide a query scope specifying which MEs the CMC wishes to monitor. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMC receives information about an ME from the CMS in response to the query transmitted in operation . The CMC can locally aggregate the received. The CMC may also share the received information with the management server or other associated consumer of the received information. From operation the method proceeds to operation .

At operation the CMC provides subscription services for requesting information delivery from the CMS . The method may terminate after operation or the method may be repeated continuously or periodically.

Turning now to an illustrative computer architecture can execute software components described herein for cloud based service and application monitoring. The computer architecture shown in illustrates a conventional desktop laptop or server computer and may be utilized to execute any aspects of the software components presented herein. It should be appreciated however that the described software components can also be executed on other example computing environments such as mobile devices television set top boxes kiosks vehicular information systems mobile telephones embedded systems or otherwise. The computer architecture may apply to the computer serving as a cloud monitoring POP a CMS a CMC or a management server . The computer architecture may execute the program modules associated with cloud based service and application monitoring such as cloud monitoring POP modules cloud monitoring service CMS modules cloud monitoring client CMC modules or any combination thereof.

The computer architecture illustrated in can include a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that can couple the system memory to the CPU . The system memory may provide memory used for cloud based service and application monitoring. A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup can be stored in the ROM . The computer may further include a mass storage device for storing an operating system software data and various program modules such as those associated with cloud based service and application monitoring. The program modules may include cloud monitoring POP modules cloud monitoring service CMS modules or cloud monitoring client CMC modules .

The mass storage device can be connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not illustrated connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media can provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available computer storage media that can be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer readable media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer .

According to various embodiments the computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the network . The network may overlap in whole or in part with the cloud or the virtual cloud . The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not illustrated . Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a printer or other type of output device also not illustrated . A display device may be used for providing output from the computer in the form of text graphics video graphical user interface any other user interface elements or any combination thereof.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked desktop laptop server computer or other computing environment. The mass storage device ROM and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device the ROM and the RAM may store the program modules associated with cloud based service and application monitoring for execution by the CPU . The mass storage device the ROM and the RAM may also store other types of program modules.

In general software applications or modules such as cloud monitoring POP modules cloud monitoring service CMS modules or cloud monitoring client CMC modules may when loaded into the CPU and executed transform the CPU and the overall computer from general purpose computing systems into special purpose computing systems customized to perform cloud based service and application monitoring. The CPU may be constructed from any number of transistors or other discrete circuit elements which may individually or collectively assume any number of states. More specifically the CPU may operate as one or more finite state machines in response to executable instructions contained within the software or modules. These computer executable instructions may transform the CPU by specifying how the CPU transitions between states thereby physically transforming the transistors or other discrete hardware elements constituting the CPU .

Encoding the software or modules onto the mass storage device may also transform the physical structure of the mass storage device or associated computer readable storage media. The specific transformation of physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the computer readable storage media whether the computer readable storage media are characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like. For example if the computer readable storage media is implemented as semiconductor based memory the software or modules may transform the physical state of the semiconductor memory when the software is encoded therein. For example the software may transform the states of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory.

As another example the computer readable storage media may be implemented using magnetic or optical technology. In such implementations the software or modules may transform the physical state of magnetic or optical media when the software is encoded therein. These transformations may include altering the magnetic characteristics of particular locations within given magnetic media. These transformations may also include altering the physical features or characteristics of particular locations within given optical media to change the optical characteristics of those locations. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for cloud based service and application monitoring are provided herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

