---

title: Information portal based on partner information
abstract: Systems, methods, and interfaces are provided for sharing information. Specifically, the present application is directed toward an environment for facilitating the exchange of information between users associated with specific partner network components. Users are granted access to such specific partner networks through a content management system in accordance with each user's affiliation with one or more organizations. The content management system can generate specific information portals accessible by individual users based their organizational associations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898237&OS=08898237&RS=08898237
owner: BMC Software Acquisition, L.L.C.
number: 08898237
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100107
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 143 068 entitled INFORMATION PORTAL BASED ON PARTNER INFORMATION filed on Jan. 7 2009 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Generally described computing devices and communication networks facilitate the collection and exchange of information. In a common application computing devices such as personal computing devices can utilize a wide area communication network generally referred to as the Internet to access content or other data from other computing devices associated with content providing entities. The type of content exchanged between the computing devices can vary according to the specific design function of the computing device and the type of content provided by the content providing entity.

Users can request data from a content providing entity that is delivered to one or more computing devices in a relatively real time basis. For example users can request content from a network resource e.g. a Web site for immediate rendering on a computing device display screen or they can request the immediate transfer of content such as a document or data file from a network resource or Web service for storage on the computing device. In another example users can transmit a request or initiate a transaction that results in the downloading or streaming of content to a computing device. Typically the content providing entity would initiate such a transfer upon receipt of the request from the computing device.

Individual users can identify appropriate content providing entities in a number of ways. In one aspect users can conduct searches via the communication network or other resources to identify appropriate content providing entities and initiate content requests. Depending on the type of content providing entity involved the results of such user initiated searches can vary. For example a user may have difficulty identifying content providers that can provide specific content or to select from a group of content providers that are known to provide specified content. Similarly content providers content publishers may have difficulty identifying users interested in consuming content or otherwise making the content known to potential consumers.

Even if content providing entities and content consumers are known to one another individual users and content providing entities may be required to establish some form of relationship in order to exchange information. With regard to information exchanged between two individuals the individuals may be establish an online relationship or confirm a relationship prior to exchanging information. An example of such embodiment corresponds to social network Web sites in which individual users are often required to establish or confirm a relationship in order to access information. With regard to information exchanged between organizations each organization may wish to exchange different levels of information according to organizational affiliations or according to hierarchies status within an identified organization. Accordingly such approaches can become inefficient for facilitating the exchange of information between a user and a content providing entity based on the user s affiliation with an organization such as a corporation.

Generally described the present application is directed to an environment for sharing information. Specifically the present application is directed toward an environment for facilitating the exchange of information between users associated with specific partner networks. Illustratively users are granted access to such specific partner networks in accordance with each user s affiliation with one or more organizations. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment the content management system facilitates information exchange by the generation of user interfaces accessible by a user generally referred to as information portals. Thus the content management system can generate specific information portals accessible by individual users based their organizational associations.

Illustratively the information portals display information generated by members of a provider partner network for users associated with consumer partner networks. As described above access to the information in information portals is made available to individual users according to their affiliation with one or more specific partner networks. Specifically individual provider partner networks can establish information relationships within an information portal. The information relationships allow the provider partner networks to grant access to at least a subset of information available via the information portal. In one aspect access to the information can be limited to at least a subsegment of users affiliated with an authorized consumer partner network. The subsets of information made available to such subsegment of users can be generally referred to as a partner program.

Users affiliated with the authorized consumer partner network can then gain access to the partner program by virtue of their affiliation. Specifically individual user access rights or other permissions are managed at least in part in accordance with the access rights other permissions attributed to the identified affiliated partner network. Although the present application will be described with regard to specific system configurations system components illustrative interaction and illustrative user interfaces one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the embodiments disclosed are illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting.

With continued reference to the content management environment includes a content management system for processing information between partner network components . The content management system includes an interface component for obtaining information from users in each of the partner network components . The content management system also includes a data processing component for processing information request from users and generating specific information portals corresponding to the configuration associated with the user by nature of an affiliation to a specific partner network component .

The content management system can utilize a user profile data store for maintaining individual user profiles. The content management system can also include a partner profile data store for maintaining partner profiles that will be applied to each user at least in part based on their affiliation with the partner network component . The content management system can further include a partner program data store for maintaining information generated by specific partner network components and to be shared with other partner network component . Still further the content management system includes a collaboration data store for maintaining information related to collaborations between users within a single partner network component or between users of different partner network components .

One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the data stores illustrated in may be maintained in a single data store or distributed among several data stores. Additionally one or more of the data stores may be implemented as Web services accessible via the communication network such as via an Application Programming Interface API . Still further as will be explained in greater detail below the data stores can be implemented in accordance with multi tenant embodiments. In such embodiments partner program data may be collectively stored maintained in the data stores for a particular user or partner program component . At the same time different selections of the partner program data may be made available depending on the particular affiliations environments utilized by the user to access the partner program data. Additionally although the content management system is illustrated as a grouping of components and data stores one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

With reference now to block diagrams of interactions or relationships between illustrative partner network components for utilization within the content management system will be described. As illustrated in individual users may be associated either physically or through a network connection with a computing device . The computing devices utilized by the individual users of each partner network can correspond to a wide variety of devices or components that are capable of initiating receiving or facilitating communications over a communication network including but not limited to personal computing devices electronic book readers hand held computing devices integrated components for inclusion in computing devices consumer electronics appliances electronic devices for inclusion in vehicles or machinery mobile telephones modems personal digital assistants laptop computers gaming devices and the like.

Based on organizational criteria the users are eventually associated with one or more partner network components illustratively partner network components A and B. The organizational criteria can be based on employment criteria subscriptions inferential criteria and the like. To determine the partner network component affiliations and as illustrated in each computing device is affiliated at a first level with one or more organizations . In turn each organization can further correspond to additional levels of organizational criteria such as organizations . Accordingly individual users can be affiliated with a number of organizational entities according to vertical hierarchies. Although partner network components A and B are illustrated with regard to a three tiered organizational hierarchy one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that a partner network component may have one or more hierarchies and that each partner network component may have different organization structures or utilize different organizational criteria to define organizational hierarchies.

Turning now to in addition to classification or affiliation of users to one or more organizations in an illustrative embodiment provider partner network component information may be provided to users affiliated with one or more organizations with varying scope. Specifically in an illustrative embodiment partner network information may be characterized into one or more logical networks based on classifications of users. For example a public network may be defined for the general population of users associated with a particular partner network component or all users of the content management system . In another example a private network may be defined that limits users according to their affiliated partner network component . Additionally the private networks can further subdivide users within a partner network component e.g. employees vs. executives vs. top management .

As illustrated in a particular provider partner network component has defined three logical networks . Similar to each computing device is affiliated with one or more organizations . The first level organizations can further be affiliated in accordance with a hierarchical structure. With regard to logical network the public network all users affiliated with a partner network component may have access. With regard to logical networks and a more limited subset of users would have access to the partner information. In one embodiment each user may be forced into a single user characterization e.g. either employee executive or top management . In another embodiment users may have multiple characterizations e.g. all top management are executives and employees all executives are also employees and everyone is an employee . Thus a specific user may access partner information in different ways or access different partner information depending on the user characterization.

With reference now to a block diagram of the content management environment of illustrating the sharing of content between devices associated with the partner network component will be described. As illustrated in a user associated with a partner network component generates a new client portal request which is transmitted over the communication network to the content management system . Illustratively the new client portal request can be facilitated by access to a network resource such as a Web site provided by the content management system . An illustrative network resource will be described below. The content management system processes the new client portal requires by associating the client with at least one partner network component .

Based on the association of at least one partner network component the content management system then associates partner program identifiers with the particular client request. Specifically the content management system determines the program identifiers authorized for the partner network s associated with the user. Based on this association the content management system then provides the user through a client computing device with an information portal that provides the user access to each of the programs that have been associated with the user. For example the content management system can cause the generation of user interfaces on a client computing device associated with the requesting user.

In an illustrative embodiment the content management system can filter the identified program information according to the partner network profile of the associated partner network components . In one aspect the content management system can filter identified program information according to organizational affiliation information associated with a user. For example assume a partner network component generates a partner program that includes first and second portions of content e.g. data . The partner network can specify criteria such as business rules such that a specific partner network component may be limited in the amount of information they can access from a particular partner program. For example if the criteria specify that a particular partner network component may only have access to the first portion of information all users associated with that specific partner network component would also be limited in the amount of information they can access e.g. the first portion of the data . Accordingly the content management system would filter or otherwise prevent the second portion of the data from the information portals generated to user s affiliated with the specific partner network.

In another aspect the content management system can further filter the identified program information according to a second type of organizational affiliation information associated with a user or a partner network component affiliated with a user. With reference to the previous example regarding the partner program having first and second portions of content assume that users associated with the partner network component can be characterized as public users a first level of users and a second level of users. Depending on the characterization of the user or the user s affiliation with the partner network component the user would be further limited as to the amount of accessible information. Accordingly the content management system would filter or prevent the display of content in accordance according to the user characterization. Still further in some embodiments the partner network component may allow one or more users to have multiple user characterizations e.g. a public user and an executive . In this embodiment the content management system would filter or otherwise prevent the display of the content according to the specific user characterization identified by the content management system. For example an information portal associated with a public user would include different or less content that an information portal associated with an executive user even if it was the same user and even in the content management system maintains the entire information portal information for that user in the partner program data store .

With reference now to a block diagram of the content management environment of illustrating the creation of partner network programs for inclusion in information portals will be described. As illustrated in a user associated with a partner network component generates a new partner program request that is transmitted over the communication network to the content management system . Illustratively the new partner program generation request can be facilitated by access to a network resource such as a Web site provided by the content management system . The content management system processes the new partner program request by obtaining information that will be included in the partner network program. Examples of the type of information that will be included in a new partner program can include but are not limited to contact information descriptive information and attached documents and files.

After obtaining the information to be included in the program information the content management system then obtains from the user authorization information. Illustratively the authorization information relates to the specification of which partner network components may have access to the program information. Additionally the authorization information can also establish that specific authorized partner network components will only be able to access a subset of the program information. Still further the authorization information can also establish different subsets of program information according to characterization of users affiliated with the specified partner network component . As discussed above with regard to users associated with such partner networks will then be limited as to how much of the program information will be provided via the information portal. Once all the authorization information is gathered the content management system can then send confirmation or notifications to the user of the partner network component via the communication network . Illustratively the notification can correspond to any one of a variety of notification methods and communication media including but not limited to electronic mail short message service multi media message service micro blogs blogs and the like.

Turning now to a client portal request processing routine implemented by a content management system will be described. The client information portal request processing routine begins at block with the content management system obtaining a client portal request. Illustratively a user associated with the partner network can access a user interface provided by the content management system via the communication network . Illustratively the client information portal request can include user identification information such as login information cookies etc. Such information may be submitted upon approval specification by the specific user or through the utilization of software application programs such as a browser software application. At block based on the user identification information the content management system obtains client partner affiliations associated with the client portal request. In one embodiment the content management system can maintain the partner network affiliations in the user profile data store . Accordingly the content management system can obtain affiliation information based on the user identification information included in the client portal request.

If the partner network affiliation is not readily available in an illustrative embodiment the content management system can parse information associated with a particular user to obtain identification information. For example the content management system can parse a domain name or host name from user contact information such as an email address to obtain affiliation information. Specifically in one embodiment the content management system can maintain a data store such as a database of domain names that have been associated with partner network components e.g. partner.com partner1.com partner.net etc. . Each specific partner network component can register domain names with the content management system . Additionally the content management system can also associate specific domains based on interactions with users known to be affiliated with the partner network component such as through learned behaviors. For example the content management system can add or remove domains based on interactions with users known to be affiliated with specific partner network components .

In another embodiment the content management system can parse email addresses associated with user either submitted in the information portal request or obtained otherwise to identify keywords such as partial domain names or hostnames. Using the parsed keywords the content management system can then search a data store of known partner network names or identifiers to match the user with a partner network.

In another embodiment the content management system utilizes the email address provided or otherwise associated with the user to verify the affiliation information. In such an embodiment upon associating the user with a partner network the content management system can forward a secure email to the user at the email address having the domain associated with the partner network component . The secure email can include a special resource identifier such as a hyperlink that accesses a domain provided by the content management system. The resource identifier can include embedded information such as confirmation codes expiration codes etc. to prevent fraud. Additionally the content management system can require additional confirmation information or other steps via the domain accessed by the resource identifier. Based on accessing the resource identifier in the manner specified the content management system verifies the association of the user to the partner network component . Such secure links can allow the content management system to associate a user to a partner network without require additional activity by the user. Further the content management system can leverage security procedures or protocols utilized by the partner network components in managing the use of authorized email accounts.

With continued reference to based on the client partner affiliations obtained from the user profile data store or otherwise obtained by the client management system at block the content management system then obtains the program information available to the user based on the partner affiliations. Illustratively the content management system may obtain all program information available to all users affiliated with the identified partner program component . As previously described the content management system can then filter applicable program information that is presented to a user via an information portal. At block the content management system processes the program information such that a user can only access the program information via the information portal as allowed by any user of the particular partner network. Additionally the content management system can also filter the program information based on individual user criteria or based on the identity of the individual user. For example the content management system can further filter program information depending on a characterization of a user or a user s selection of a particular characterization.

At block the content management system can then transmit responsive client portal information via the communication network. As will be described below the client information portal can be provided to the user via user interface generated on the user computer. For example the information portal may be generated via a browser software application. At block the routine terminates.

With reference now to a partner program generation routine implemented by the content management system will be described. At block the content management system obtains the partner program creation request from my user associated with a particular partner network component via the communication network . Illustratively the request may be transmitted by accessing and an interface to be generated on the user client computer.

At block based on the request the content management system determines or otherwise identifies the information associated with the partner program that is to be included in the information portal. As previously described the program information can include information associated with the partner network e.g. descriptive information confidential information etc. . Additionally the program information can include additional link information such as documents files multimedia information and the like.

At block the content management system then determines program permissions for the particular program. In one embodiment the content management system may utilize preconfigured permission information defined according to the partner network component e.g. default permissions attributed to the partner network component associated with a requesting user . The preconfigured permission information may be stored in a partner network program data store . Additionally the content management system may also obtain specific or additional program permissions from the user via a user interface. As previously described the permission information can define a limited set of information for specific partner network components such that users associated with that specific partner network component can only access a subset of the program information. Additionally as described above the user can specify filtering criteria based on individual users such as criteria based on the characterization of user. At block the content management system stores the program information. Additionally at block the content management system can optionally transmit a confirmation to the requesting user or according to specified contact information e.g. a system administrator identified for the partner network component . The store program will then be made available for access by requesting users as described above with regard to . At block the routine terminates.

Turning now to an illustrative screen interface generated by a client computing device for the selection of partner network components will be described. The screen interface is generated on a client machine to facilitate the selection or identification of partner networks by a user. As illustrated in the screen interface includes a search component for allowing search functionality such that users can enter keyword searches of potential partner network names identifiers. The screen interface also includes a partner category selection component that facilitates the selection of specific categories of partner network components .

By utilizing the screen interface a user associated with one or more partner network can conduct queries to identify other partner networks in which the user may be interested. If so the user can initiate a relationship between the user s particular partner network components and other partner networks. If accepted the user and other individual users affiliated with the same organization can access partner program information provided by the partner network component via an information portal.

With reference now to an illustrative screen interface generated by client computing device for presenting an information portal will be described. The screen interface includes a first portion that identifies to the user partner network affiliation information attributed to the user by the content management system . For example the first portion may include the specific identification of the partner network component utilized to determine a user s permissions. The screen interface can include a second portion that identifies the partner network programs provided by other partner networks and available to the user by virtue of their affiliation. The screen interface can also include a third portion that identifies which other members of the partner network have access that program information. For example in an organization corresponding to a company the screen interface can identify which employees of the company have accessed or are currently accessing the program information available to the user. The screen interface can further include additional information provided by the selected partner network such as contact information for the particular program partner networks or for the company associated with the information portal.

In an illustrative embodiment the content management system can also facilitate collaborative efforts by the users of partner network components . In this embodiment users may generate content to be shared amongst other users of partner network components or within a particular partner network component. The collaborative information often referred to as a wiki can be accessible via the information portal or another interface provided by the content management system. The collaborative information may be stored in the collaborative data store maintained by the content management system . Additionally the content management system can further process the collaborative information such that access may be limited to a specific subset of users or such as content generated by particular users is processed and potentially filtered by the content management system . As previously described the collaborative information may be integrated as part of the information portal present to particular user. Alternatively the collaborative information may be made available to a larger subset of users.

While illustrative embodiments have been disclosed and discussed one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that additional or alternative embodiments may be implemented within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Additionally although many embodiments have been indicated as illustrative one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the illustrative embodiments do not need to be combined or implemented together. As such some illustrative embodiments do not need to be utilized or implemented in accordance with the scope of variations to the present disclosure.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art. It will further be appreciated that the data and or components described above may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into memory of the computing device using a drive mechanism associated with a computer readable medium storing the computer executable components such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or network interface. Further the component and or data can be included in a single device or distributed in any manner. Accordingly general purpose computing devices may be configured to implement the processes algorithms and methodology of the present disclosure with the processing and or execution of the various data and or components described above. Alternatively some or all of the methods described herein may alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware. In addition the components referred to herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

