---

title: Filtering of custom attributes of computer objects for display
abstract: A computer-readable medium, computer-implemented method, and system are provided for filtering of custom attributes. A custom attribute is an attribute of an object defined by a user. Once a user has defined one or more custom attributes, the user can filter a set of objects based on a criteria that includes a value for one or more custom attributes. The filtering can be dynamic so that when the set of objects is modified (such as creating a new object, deleting an existing object, or modifying an existing object), the filter is automatically updated. Furthermore, a filtering criteria can be based on the set of objects present in the system, so that any filter that is defined returns at least one object. In addition, once a filter is applied, any additional filter applied to the original filter can have a filtering criteria based on the subset of objects returned by the original filter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08725747&OS=08725747&RS=08725747
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08725747
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101027
---
One embodiment is directed generally to a computer system and in particular to a financial computer system configured to run business processes.

Companies can have business processes where each business process requires that a set of tasks be completed before the business process can be deemed to be completed. An example of a business process is a financial close process which is a process to complete an accounting reporting cycle of a company. The financial close process can include one or more tasks that need to be performed in order to complete the accounting reporting cycle. Such tasks can include ledger and sub ledger close data loading and mapping financial consolidation reconciliation tax treasury and internal external reporting tasks.

A computer system can be configured to manage one or more business processes such as a financial close process for a company. However there are many challenges in configuring a computer system to manage business processes. One challenge is the wide diversity of business processes. For example in the context of a financial close process a financial close can mean different things to different employees of a company. To a divisional controller a financial close may mean closing out the sub ledgers and general ledger at month end or quarter end and submitting the results to a corporate branch of the company. To a headquarters accountant the financial close may mean collecting the details from the respective divisions of the company making final adjustments and performing the corporate financial consolidation and reporting. To a Chief Financial Officer and other financial executives the financial close may mean finalizing results announcing earnings and creating 10Q 10K s and other regulatory filings for the SEC and other stakeholders. Thus it is desirable to a company that the computer system configured to manage such diverse business processes and the diverse tasks associated with a business process provide a flexible and robust mechanism for creating grouping and managing tasks of one or more business processes.

Furthermore a computer system configured to manage one or more business processes may need to interact with one or more external computer systems. For example a computer system configured to manage a financial close process may need to interact with external computer systems such as enterprise resource planning ERP systems and financial consolidation systems. An ERP system is a computer system configured to manage internal and external resources such as tangible assets financial resources materials and human resources. A financial consolidation system is a computer system configured to streamline the internal financial reporting of a company. However the ERP and financial consolidation systems may be independent systems that are separate from the computer system configured to manage the financial close process. The independent nature of the systems may make integration and coordination of the systems difficult.

One approach for overcoming these difficulties is to use several ad hoc and disconnected tools to interconnect the ERP systems and financial consolidation systems with the computer system configured to manage the financial close process in order to complete associated tasks such as creating external facing financial statements. One problem with this approach is that there is no visibility into the activities necessary to create the financial statements. Activities performed outside the ERP systems or financial consolidation systems often do not have a system of record. Thus the tasks performed are difficult to audit and as a result a risk is associated with the goal of achieving accurate financial statements.

A computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor cause the processor to filter objects based on a custom attribute. The instructions include defining a custom attribute where the custom attribute is an attribute defined by a user of a system and includes a name a value and a value type. The instructions further include associating the custom attribute with the object in the system. The instructions further include defining a filter where the filter defines a subset of objects based on a filtering criteria when applied to a set of objects in the system and displays the subset of objects using a user interface of the system. The instructions further include filtering the set of objects using the filter where the custom attribute is used as the filtering criteria.

One embodiment of the invention is directed towards to a financial close management system. According to the embodiment a financial close management system can help define execute and report on the interdependent processes of a financial close period. The financial close management system can provide centralized monitoring of all financial close processes tasks and can provide a visible automated repeatable system of record for running financial close processes.

According to an embodiment of the invention the financial close management system can provide the following functionality defining financial close tasks for a financial close process defining a schedule of financial close tasks to ensure the correct flow of tasks automating the management of the financial close process to track the status of financial close tasks providing notification and alerts relating to the financial close process integrating the financial close tasks with products tasks generating end user notifications monitoring an overall status of a financial close process from a central dashboard acting on errors or delays with financial close tasks and analyzing the effectiveness of the financial close process.

In accordance with an embodiment the financial close management system can visualize all the tasks required to complete a specific process. More specifically the financial close management system can show all the tasks within a specific process and also show their expected sequencing and interrelationships. In an example where the specific process is a company s financial close process the financial close management system can summarize all the required tasks needed to complete an accounting reporting cycle.

According to an embodiment the financial close management system includes an extensible workflow engine and an integration framework that in part allows the financial close management system to monitor and orchestrate tasks into all applications necessary for the completion of a specific process. The extensible workflow engine and integration framework can utilize a process manager that uses an orchestration language such as Business Process Execution Language BPEL to create business processes. The extensible workflow engine and integration framework can also utilize web services and a service oriented architecture SOA .

An orchestration language such as BPEL is a language for specifying business process behavior based on web services. Using an orchestration language a business process can be modeled by a computer system. Models for business processes generally involve sequences of peer to peer message exchanges both request response and one way within stateful long running interactions involving two or more parties. An orchestration language provides a formal description of the message exchange protocols used by business processes in their interactions. In other words an orchestration language defines a model and grammar for describing the behavior of a business process based on interactions between the process and its partner processes. The interaction with each partner process can occur through web service interfaces and the structure of the relationship at the interface level can be encapsulated. Thus an orchestration process such as a BPEL process can define how multiple service interactions with partner processes are coordinated to achieve a business goal.

A web service is a software application designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network. A web service can have an interface described in a machine processable format. A computer system can interact with a web service by sending messages over a sequential stream oriented protocol such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . Examples of web services are Big Web services and RESTful web services. Big Web services are web services that follow a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP standard and use Extensible Markup Language XML messages. RESTful web services are services that utilize a Representational State Transfer REST style of software architecture where clients are separate from servers by a uniform interface. A SOA is a flexible set of design principles used during the phases of systems development and integration. A deployed SOA based architecture will provide a loosely integrated suite of services that can be used within multiple business domains.

A user is a user of the financial close management system that has the capabilities of viewing a schedule owning a task viewing a dashboard modifying statuses and creating and managing filters. A power user is a user of the financial close management system that has all the capabilities of a user and has the additional capabilities of creating and importing tasks and creating and managing templates and schedules. An administrator is a user of the financial close management system that has all the capabilities of a power user and has the additional capabilities of having full access to all tasks templates and schedules defining years and periods creating and managing task types and creating and managing custom attributes.

Task type can also define one or more attributes. An attribute is a value associated with an object such as task type task template or schedule . Task type can also define a value for each defined attribute of task type . Thus according to an embodiment of the invention task type can define attribute values and parameter values that can be inherited by any task that is created from task type .

Task is a core unit of action and is a component of a financial close process. In other words a financial close process can include one or more tasks. Task can be implemented as an orchestration process such as a BPEL process which can be a sub process of a larger orchestration process that corresponds to the financial close process. Task can be inserted into either a template or a schedule. Task inherits from task type . In other words task is based on task type and can include all attributes and parameters and any defined value for each inherited attribute and parameter defined by task type . Task can also define a value for each parameter where task type has not already defined a value. A parameter value defined by task is only associated with task rather than task type . Also task can define one or more attributes in addition to any attributes inherited from task type . In addition task can also define a value for each defined attribute of task type . Thus based on the definitions inherited from task type and based on its own definitions task can define one or more parameters and attributes and define a value for each parameter and attribute.

Template is a repeatable set of tasks such as task . Template has a one to many relationship with task . Tasks within template are organized in an ordinal hierarchy. For example in an embodiment tasks within template can be organized by offset days. An offset day is not a calendar date but a numeric identifier used to order the tasks that make up template . According to the embodiment one or more tasks of template can be assigned an offset day of 0. Furthermore all tasks that precede the one or more tasks assigned an offset day of 0 can be assigned offset days that are negative numbers and all tasks that succeed the one or more tasks assigned an offset day of 0 can be assigned offset days that are positive numbers. More than one task can be assigned to an offset day. For example five tasks can be assigned to offset day 1 three tasks can be assigned to offset day 0 and twelve tasks can be assigned to offset day 5. Template can be used as a basis to create one or more schedules. In addition template can define one or more attributes and can define a value for each defined attribute.

Schedule is an expression of template . In other words schedule inherits from template including all the tasks of template and assigns each task to a particular point in time on a calendar such as date . The order of tasks in template is maintained in schedule and template can be expressed in more than one schedule. For example a first schedule can be created from template where a first task of the first schedule starts on January 1 of a calendar year and a second schedule can be created from template where a first task of the second schedule starts on April 1 of the calendar year. Both schedules include the same tasks as template but the first schedule begins before the second schedule. In an alternate embodiment a schedule can be created manually rather than inheriting from a template.

According to the illustrated embodiment two task types task types and can be defined for a financial close management framework. As previously described task types and can each define a specific type of task. Two tasks tasks and can also be defined for the financial close management framework within a template template . While in the illustrated embodiment the two tasks are defined within a template in an alternate embodiment tasks can be defined for the financial close management framework within a schedule rather than a template. Tasks and each inherit from task type . A third task task can also be defined for the financial close management framework within template . Rather than inheriting from task type task inherits from task type . As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate any number of tasks and task types can be defined for the financial close management framework with any number of tasks inheriting from a given task type. Furthermore any number of tasks can be defined within a schedule or within a template.

According to the embodiment a template template can be defined for the financial close management framework. As previously described a template is a set of tasks. In the illustrated embodiment template can include tasks and . As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate any number of templates can be defined for the financial close management framework and a template can include any number of tasks.

As previously described a template can be expressed in one or more schedules. According to the illustrated embodiment template can be expressed in two schedules schedules and . Schedules and are each an expression of template . Thus schedules and each inherit tasks and from template and schedules and each assign tasks and to a particular point in time on a calendar such as date . For example for schedule task can be assigned to run on January 1 of a calendar year task can be assigned to run on February 1 of the calendar year and task can be assigned to run on March 1 of the calendar year. In contrast for schedule task can be assigned to run on April 1 of the calendar year task can be assigned to run on May 1 of the calendar year and task can be assigned to run on June 1 of the calendar year. As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate any number of schedules can be defined for the financial close management framework and a template can be expressed in any number of schedules.

According to the illustrated embodiment server layer includes web server application server . Web server application server is a combination of a web server and an application server. A web server is a computer program that can deliver content such as a web page using a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP over a network such as the Internet. An application server is a computer program that can execute procedures such as programs routines and scripts that can support one or more applications. In one embodiment of the invention the web server and application server of web server application server each operate on a separate machine. In an alternate embodiment the web server and application server of web server application server operate on the same machine.

In the embodiment web server application server includes financial close management server and SOA suite server . Financial close management server can provide functionality for managing a financial close process as will be described in more detail below. SOA suite server can provide a suite of services where a service comprises an unassociated loosely coupled unit of functionality and where one or more services can be orchestrated into a non hierarchical arrangement in order to construct a software application such as a business process. SOA suite server can also communicate with database over a set of database protocols such as Open Database Connectivity ODBC and Java Database Connectivity JDBC that utilize a Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP .

According to the embodiment client layer can operate on any type of machine utilizing a browser that is configured to access the Internet. In the illustrated embodiment client layer includes an email client and a workspace client . Email client can be a web application configured to provide message management composition and reception functionality. Email client can be configured to run in a browser configured to access the Internet. Email client can also be configured to communicate with server layer over a Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP connection. Workspace client can be a software application configured to enter and administer tasks created in server layer configured to display a dashboard reporting information on tasks created in server layer and configured to analyze tasks created in server layer . Workspace client like email client can also be configured to run in a browser that is configured to access the Internet. Workspace client can also be configured to communicate with server layer over a HTTP connection.

Applications tier includes Machine according to the embodiment. Machine includes an application server a web server an SOA server and a financial close management server not shown .

According to the embodiment data tier includes Machine . Machine includes a relational database RDMS.

According to the embodiment in contrast to the embodiment illustrated in applications tier includes Machine and Machine . Applications tier includes a second machine in order to handle the extra number of users. According to the embodiment machine includes an application server a web server and a financial close management server not shown . Furthermore according to the embodiment machine includes a SOA server.

According to the embodiment data tier includes Machine . Machine includes a relational database RDMS.

One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that illustrate example deployments of a financial close management system and that there are other example deployments within the scope of the invention. For example one of ordinary skill would readily appreciate that an application tier can include any number of machines and can include any distribution of the application server web server SOA server and financial close management server among the machines and still be within the scope of the invention.

A computer readable medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by processor . A computer readable medium may include both a volatile and nonvolatile medium a removable and non removable medium a communication medium and a storage medium. A communication medium may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any other form of information delivery medium known in the art. A storage medium may include RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

Processor can also be operatively coupled via bus to a display such as a Cathode Ray Tube CRT . Display can display information to the user. A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse can also be operatively coupled to bus to enable the user to interface with financial close management server .

According to one embodiment memory can store software modules that may provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules can include an operating system a financial close management module as well as other functional modules . Operating system can provide an operating system functionality for financial close management server . Financial close management module can provide functionality for managing a financial close process as will be described in more detail below. Financial close management server can also be part of a larger system. Thus financial close management server can include one or more additional functional modules to include the additional functionality. For example functional modules may include modules that are part of the Fusion products from Oracle Corporation.

Processor can also be operatively coupled via bus to a database . Database can store data in an integrated collection of logically related records or files. Database can be an operational database an analytical database a data warehouse a distributed database an end user database an external database a navigational database an in memory database a document oriented database a real time database a relational database an object oriented database or any other database known in the art.

According to the embodiment the financial close management system illustrated in includes client layer . According to the embodiment client layer can operate utilizing a browser configured to access the Internet and configured to run on any type of machine. In accordance with the embodiment client layer can provide task entry and submission functionality. More specifically client layer can allow a user to create one or more tasks for the financial close management system and submit the one or more tasks for processing. Client layer can also provide functionality for a configurable user dashboard. The configurable user dashboard can provide a portal style interface into the financial close management system providing views into running schedules and task lists as well as high level summary representations into which a user can drill down for greater detail. According to the embodiment the configurable user dashboard can be used for real time management of current schedules and task lists. Client layer can also provide functionality for multiple views of a financial calendar. More specifically client layer can provide a day view a week view or a month view where each view displays the tasks that are scheduled for that specific day week or month. In addition client layer can also provide functionality for viewing report binders. A report binder is a history of all activities that occurred as part of an process such as all tasks associated with a financial close process. A report binder can be stored in a format such as a compressed file. By selecting the format using a user interface of a financial close management system a user can view the report binder using the user interface.

In accordance with the embodiment the financial close management system also includes server layer . According to the embodiment server layer can operate on one or more machines to provide fail over and load balancing. In accordance with the embodiment server layer can provide financial close schedule and financial close template functionality. More specifically server layer can create and processes schedules and templates for a financial close process as previously described above. Server layer can also provide e mail notification and vacation scheduling functionality. More specifically server layer can e mail a user to notify the user that a task requires the user s attention and can coordinate a vacation schedule for the users of a system to determine when a user will not be available to perform a task due to vacation. Server layer can also provide work flow management and product integration functionality. Workflow management refers to processing one or more tasks associated with a template or schedule. Product integration is described in more detail in the Integration section. In addition server layer can also provide role based security and task access control functionality. Role based security refers to determining whether a user has access to a module of the financial close management system such as viewing or editing a template or schedule or viewing a dashboard based on an associated role. Task access control refers to controlling access to a task such as who can view and approve a task .

In accordance with the embodiment the financial close management system also includes data layer . According to the embodiment data layer can provide task definition functionality and schedule and template repository functionality. More specifically data layer can store one or more defined tasks schedules and templates. Data layer can provide document attachment and commentary functionality. More specifically data layer can store one or more document attachments or comments associated with a task. In addition data layer can provide auditing and logging functionality and security functionality. More specifically data layer can store actions performed in the financial close management system and can store security roles that can be assigned to one or more users of the financial close management system.

One embodiment of the invention is directed towards an integration framework of a financial close management system that allows an end user to leverage services or interfaces from external applications as part of a business process such as a financial close process of a financial close management system. According to an embodiment the integration framework can integrate a task that requires the user to interact with a user interface of an external application identified as an end user task with the financial close management system. According to another embodiment the integration framework can integrate a task that runs without any user interaction required and that interacts with a web service of an external application identified as a system automated task with the financial close management system.

According to the embodiment integration type can include the following attributes execution type task parameters execution detail and response detail. An execution type defines the type of integration either end user or system automated. Task parameters define a set of parameters needed to invoke the end user or system automated task. For example if the integrated service will run a report a parameter allows for a user to specify which report to run. The values for these parameters may be set in a task type associated with integration type such as task type or may be set at run time when a task associated with integration type such as task is initiated. An execution detail defines execution information used to invoke a task. For an end user task the execution detail can include a Uniform Resource Locator URL needed to invoke an external application interface. For a system automated task the execution detail can include a web service endpoint needed to invoke the web service. A response detail includes information necessary to process information from a web service indicating success or failure and detail on the execution.

According to an alternate embodiment integration type can include the following additional attributes name description unique code identifier and external application. A name indicates a display name of integration type . A description indicates a general description associated with integration type . A unique code identifier uniquely identifies integration type and distinguishes integration type from other integration types defined in an integration framework. An external application identifies an external application that integration type is identified with such as external application .

As illustrated in task type can be based on integration type . In other words task type inherits from integration type including inheriting a set of parameters defined by integration type . According to an embodiment task type can provide one or more default values for the set of parameters defined by integration type .

According to an embodiment to integrate an external application service or interface within a financial close management system the service or interface is first defined as an integration type within the financial close management system. Subsequently a task type is created that wraps the integration for usage in the financial close management system. Lastly a task is added within the financial close management system that is based on the created task type. According to the embodiment an integration type is the only object that contains knowledge of the external application service or interface. Thus the task type and task are not directly related to the external application service definition or external application interface definition and each object does not require knowledge of the external application service or interface.

According to the illustrated embodiment two integration types integration types and can be defined for an integration framework which is a component of a financial close management framework. As previously described an integration type is a reusable definition that describes an action and a set of parameters that can be used to call either a service or an interface of an external application. In the illustrated embodiment integration type describes an action and a set of parameters used to call either a service or an interface of external application and integration type describes an action and a set of parameters used to call either a service or an interface of external application . As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate any number of integration types can be defined for the integration framework.

According to the illustrated embodiment two task types task types and can be defined for the financial close management framework where task type inherits from integration type and task type inherits from integration type . As previously described task types and can each define a specific type of task. Two tasks tasks and can also be defined for the financial close management framework within a template template . While in the illustrated embodiment the two tasks are defined within a template in an alternate embodiment tasks can be defined for the financial close management framework within a schedule rather than a template. Task inherits from task type and can call either a service or an interface of external application . Task inherits from task type and can call either a service or an interface of external application . As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate any number of tasks and task types can be defined for the financial close management framework with any number of tasks inheriting from a given task type. Furthermore any number of tasks can be defined within a schedule or within a template.

According to the embodiment template can be defined for the financial close management framework. As previously described a template is a set of tasks. In the illustrated embodiment template can include tasks and . As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate any number of templates can be defined for the financial close management framework and a template can include any number of tasks.

According to the embodiment template is expressed in schedule . Thus schedule inherits tasks and which can call either a service or an interface of external applications and respectively. As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate any number of schedules can be defined for the financial close management framework and a template can be expressed in any number of schedules.

One integration type is an end user task integration type that integrates a task that requires the user to interact with a user interface of an external application with the financial close management system. An example of a user interaction with a user interface of an external application is entering data into a data grid in Hyperion Financial Management. Another example of a user interaction with a user interface of an external application is executing a report in Hyperion Financial Reporting. According to an embodiment of the invention in order to integrate an end user task with the financial close management system the task can be exposed as a directly callable web application URL endpoint. From the perspective of a user of the financial close management system the end user task integration type can provide a button to bring the user to a page to perform the task. In one embodiment the financial close management system can launch the page as a new tab in a workspace. In another embodiment the financial close management system can launch a new browser window where the browser window is configured to access the Internet. According to the embodiment the task is completed when a user submits the work in the financial close management system and optionally the work is approved.

Another integration type is a system automated task integration type that integrates a task that runs without any user interaction required and that automatically interacts with a web service of an external application with the financial close management system. An example of automatic interaction with a web service of an external application is a consolidate process in Hyperion Financial Management. Another example of automatic interaction with a web service of an external application is a load data process in Hyperion Financial Management. According to an embodiment in order to integrate a system automated task with the financial close management system the task can be exposed as an asynchronous web service. In other words the web service is configured to be called asynchronously so that the financial close management system is not required to wait for the task to be completed. The system automated task is completed according to an embodiment when an external application returns an indication that the task is completed.

According to the illustrated embodiment task also includes parameters and but also includes values and . Thus according to the embodiment parameters can be defined for an integration type which are inherited by a corresponding task and parameter values can be defined for the parameters at the corresponding task.

According to an embodiment each parameter defined for an integration type can have the following attributes parameter name parameter code required flag parameter order tooltip and parameter dependencies. A parameter name is a display name of the parameter. The parameter name can be displayed next to the parameter when a task is created based on an integration type. A parameter code is an internal name used for the parameter. The parameter code can be used to generate a service request or URL when the task is processed. The value for a parameter code can be alpha numeric. The required flag indicates whether or not a parameter value is required to execute the tasks. The parameter order is a number value indicating an order to display the parameters in a user interface of the financial close management system. A tooltip is descriptive text about the parameter and its usage. The tooltip value can be displayed if a user hovers over the parameter displayed at the user interface of the financial close management system. The parameter dependencies are a list of parameters that this parameter is dependent on. For example if a parameter is dependent on another parameter its parent the parameter can be disabled in the user interface of the financial close management system until the parent parameter has a value.

In addition to the above attributes a parameter can be of a specific parameter type. Such parameter types include the following text number date checkbox static list dynamic list options group document navigator and dimension selector. A text type is used for a text value. When creating a parameter of this type a maximum field length and maximum number of text rows can be specified. A number type is used for a numeric value. When creating a parameter of this type a lower and upper bound of the numeric value can be specified. A date type is used for a date value. When creating a parameter of this type a lower and upper bound can be specified. When a parameter of this type is displayed in a user interface of the financial close management system the user can have the ability to use a date picker control. A checkbox type is used for a Boolean value. In the user interface of the financial close management system a parameter of this type can be displayed as a checkbox control. A static list type is used for a pre defined set of text values. A user can choose from the set of values using the user interface of the financial close management system. A dynamic list type is used for a dynamic set of text values which can be determined at runtime and is described below in more detail. An options group type is used for a pre defined set of values where a user can chose multiple values from the set. A document navigator type is used for a hierarchical set of values e.g. folders and documents which can be determined at runtime and is described below in more detail. A dimension selector type is used for a pre determined set of dimension values and is described below in more detail.

According to an embodiment a dynamic list parameter type represents a flat set of values that has an associated web service of an external application to provide a valid list of values. Thus a dynamic list parameter has values that can be determined at run time. As an example a task can require a name of a report and the list of valid reports can be retrieved from an external application by calling a web service. If the report name parameter is defined as a dynamic list parameter the financial close management system can use an external application s web service to retrieve a list of values for a user to select from. Thus instead of having to manually enter the name of a report the end user will have a valid list of reports to select from.

According to the embodiment to provide this functionality the financial close management system needs to know how to call the appropriate web service. Thus the following attributes can be defined for each dynamic list parameter type Web Service Description Language WDSL location namespace port name SOAP action response element and response transform. The WSDL location is a URL for a web service s WDSL. The namespace is the namespace of the web service. The port is the web service port type as defined in the WSDL. The name is the web service name as defined in the WSDL. The SOAP action is the SOAP action for the web service. The response element is the name of the SOAP response Extensible Markup Language XML element that contains the parameter value. The response transform is an Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformation XLST string to transform a response XML into a valid form.

According to an embodiment a document navigator parameter type is similar to the dynamic list parameter type in that the valid set of values can be retrieved from an external application at runtime. However the document navigator parameter type represents a hierarchical set of values instead of a flat list. Thus as an example a document navigator parameter type can be used to represent documents and their folders.

A document navigator parameter type can have the same attributes as the dynamic list parameter type to define an associated web service. In addition to those attributes the document navigator parameter type can also include the following attributes parameter path code one time query flag parent folder parameter item type web service and item type filter parameter. A parameter path code is a path to a value of a hierarchical set of values. A one time query flag used to determine whether the web service returns an entire hierarchy in a single call. If a web service returns the entire hierarchy in a single call the one time query flag can be set to a value of Y. Likewise if the web service returns the hierarchy one level at a time the one time query flag can be set to a value of N. A parent folder parameter is a web service parameter that indicates where a financial close management system should place a parent folder name. If the web service is not a one time query service i.e. if the one time query flag is set to Y then the financial close management system will send a parent folder to the web service to provide the hierarchical context on each call. An item type web service is an additional web service that can be used to list out valid item types when the items returned by an associated web service are segregated into types. An item type filter parameter is the item type to filter on if the item types can be filtered.

According to an embodiment a dimension selector parameter type allows a user to select dimension values such as a year or a period . The dimension selector parameter type can include a dimension selector URL and a dimension selector selection. The dimension selector URL is a URL of an external application s dimension selector user interface. The dimension selector selection is an XML string stating which dimensions are selectable and whether the parameter type allows multiple selections.

An execution of an integrated task such as an end user task and a system automated task will now be described in more detail.

For an end user task a financial close management system uses a directly callable external web application URL to execute the end user task. The URL can display the external user interface associated with the end user task. An example format of the URL according to an embodiment of the invention is 

According to the embodiment the values for PARAM1 PARAM2 etc. can be filled in by the financial close management system with parameter codes that match based on the integration type definition. An example URL utilizing the above format is as follows 

In the above example a reportName parameter code can be defined in the integration type. The financial close management system can use the value for the reportName parameter in place of PARAM1 .

For a system automated task a financial close management system uses endpoint information for an external web service. The web service endpoint information can be specified in an integration type s WSDL location element. An example format of the web service endpoint information according to an embodiment of the invention is 

In addition to the WSDL location the integration type can describe the web service detail using the following information service name service namespace service operation and service port type. The service name is the name of the service being called. In other words the service name is the name of the web service defined in the WSDL i.e. . The service namespace is the namespace associated with the web service. The namespace is defined in the WSDL i.e. . The service operation is the name of the method to call on the web service. The service operation is also defined in the WSDL i.e. . The service port type is the port definition for the web service. The port type is also defined in the WSDL i.e. .

An integrated task such as a system automated task and an end user task can also handle security for the task to prevent unauthorized users from accessing an external application. Security involves authentication and authorization. Authentication is the process of verifying an identity of a user and verifying that the user is a trusted user. Authorization is the process of verifying that an authenticated user has the authority to perform a certain operation.

For a system automated task a financial close management system can rely on a Web Services Security WS Security standard to establish an identity of a user when making web service calls. WS Security is an extension to SOAP that can apply security to web services through the use of various security token formats such as Security Assertion Markup Language SAML Kerberos and X.509. An external web service that is integrated with the financial close management server can support WS Security and SAML based tokens for authentication. According to an embodiment with SAML tokens a trust relationship is established between the financial close management system and an external application through an exchange of certificates. This allows the financial close management system to invoke a system automated task using credentials such as a user s credentials or an assignee s credentials. According to the embodiment a public key of the financial close management system can be imported into an external application s keystore and a public key of the external application can be imported into a keystore of the financial close management system. Also according to the embodiment while the financial close management system can handle authentication of a user the financial close management system can let the external application handle authorization of a user.

For an end user task a financial close management system can support single sign on SSO with an external application if that application is integrated with a SSO framework utilized by the financial close management system. According to an embodiment when invoking an end user task the financial close management system can include a SSO token in the URL if the task includes a SSO token replacement parameter. The external application can receive the SSO token and use it to launch the end user task. In an alternate embodiment if the external application does not support the integration described above the financial close management system can invoke the end user task URL without providing any user credentials. In this embodiment the external application can prompt the user for credentials before displaying the end user task.

According to an embodiment a system automated task supports asynchronous invocation. Asynchronous invocation as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art is a type of web service invocation that allows other processing to continue before the invoked service returns a response. Also according to the embodiment a web service can have two port types where each port type performs a one way operation. One port responds to the web service request and the second port calls back into a financial close management system with a response. In addition to the two port types according to the embodiment the web service can accept Web Security Addressing WS Addressing based reply information. The WS Addressing headers can be used by the web service to direct responses to the correct callback service.

A handling of a web service response by an integrated task such as an end user task and a system automated task will now be described in more detail.

According to an embodiment there are three types of web services that a financial close management system can receive a response from. These three types of web services include a web service that executes a system automated task a web service that provides a list of values for a dynamic list parameter type and a web service that provides a hierarchical list of values for a document navigator parameter type. When invoked each of the services described above responds with an XML based SOAP message. The data types returned may be different based on the external application. A financial close management system can provide a mechanism to translate the response XML into a format understandable by the financial close management system. More specifically for a web service defined in an integration type an XLST string can be specified to take the actual web service response and translate it into a response expected by a financial close management system.

For a system automated task according to an embodiment of the invention a schema for a response XML or XML schema document XSD that is transmitted by the web service is as follows 

For a dynamic list parameter type according to an embodiment of the invention an XSD that is transmitted by the web service is as follows 

For a document navigator parameter type according to an embodiment of the invention an XSD that is transmitted by the web service is as follows 

According to an embodiment an example response XML for a document navigator parameter type is as follows 

A process of creating integration types will now be described in more detail. According to an embodiment a user can create one or more integration types within a financial close management system by adding and editing the integration types directly in a user interface of the financial close management system.

According to another embodiment of the invention a user can create one or more integration types within a financial close management system by creating an integration XML document. The XML document can contain all of the integration types associated with an external application being integrated. According to the embodiment the following XML schema can represent a structure and content for an integration XML document 

According to the embodiment the example XML schema includes the following elements integrationType name description parameter selectItem and dependency. The integrationType parameter is a root element of an XML tree and describes one integration type in a financial close management system. The name element can be used to store a translated name of each integration type. There can be a localized name element for each language supported by the financial close management system. The description element can be used to store a translated description of each integration type. There can be a localized description element for each language supported by the financial close management system. The parameter element describes one parameter of an integration type. The selectItem element describes one element in a selectable list for a list of values type parameter or a radio type parameter. The dependency element indicates that one parameter is dependent on another parameter. Each element may have one or more attributes that further define the element.

In accordance with an embodiment the integration XML document can also describe an external application that each integration type is associated with. Attributes of the external application include name and internal parameters.

According to the embodiment after an integration XML document has been created the XML document can be loaded into a financial close management system to create or update integration types in the system.

According to an embodiment of the invention an example integration XML document is provided as follows 

According to the above example the first integration type RUNREPORT points to an external web service for running an automated report on the http rptsvr 80 reportingService ReportingService web service. The web service method runReport takes a single parameter reportName that identifies the report to run. The available reports can be listed by a user interface by calling the http rptsvr 80 reportingService ReportingService web service method getReports as defined in the integration type.

Also according to the above example the second integration type VIEWREPORT points to an end user user interface module at the URL http rptsvr1 80 reportingApp ViewReport.jsp. When called in a browser configured to access the Internet the URL display the report for the end user. The ViewReport URL also takes a single parameter REPORTNAME via the URL. The actual REPORTNAME value is replaced when the URL is launched. The available reports will be listed by the user interface by calling the getReports web service method as defined in the integration type.

According to the example if the results from the runReport and getReports methods are in a format expected by the financial close management system associated XSL templates can be included in the integration type definition as shown above.

At an integration type is created in a financial close management system. According to the embodiment an integration type includes a reusable definition that describes an action and a set of parameters that can be used to interface with an external application. At a task type is created based on the integration type in the financial close management system. According to the embodiment a task type defines a type of task that can be performed in the financial close management system. At a task is created based on the task type in the financial close management system. According to the embodiment a task is a component of a financial close process. At the task is executed in the financial close management system. According to the embodiment the task interfaces with the external application using the integration type.

Thus according to an embodiment of the invention tasks of a financial management system can be associated with an external application through an integration framework that utilizes integration types. In accordance with the embodiment the integration framework can allow a user to leverage services from external applications as part of a process flow and thus provides a single application to manage all the activities of the process flow.

One embodiment of the invention is directed towards managing schedules. As previously described a schedule is a core object of a financial close management system and is an expression of a template. According to the embodiment managing a schedule can include creating a new schedule modifying an existing schedule deleting an existing schedule duplicating an existing schedule validating an existing schedule creating a template from an existing schedule setting a status of an existing schedule and importing and exporting an existing schedule. In addition according to the embodiment managing a schedule can include defining task type parameters that can be set during scheduling and setting task parameters of a schedule at a schedule level rather than a task level.

As described above a schedule is an expression of a template which is an ordered set of tasks. A schedule can inherit from a template including all the tasks of the template and assigns each task to a particular point in time on a calendar such as date . A schedule can have one of four statuses Pending Open Closed and Locked. The status of Pending indicates that the schedule has been created but is not yet active. The status of Open indicates that the schedule is active that the schedule is open for work to be performed and that tasks in the schedule can be run. The status of Closed indicates that the schedule is no longer active but follow up work may be required. In this status tasks in the schedule continue to proceed based on their definitions but tasks cannot be added to the schedule. The status of Locked indicates that the schedule is locked that tasks in the schedule are forced to complete and that only an administrator can modify the schedule or its tasks. In this status a user cannot modify the schedule or its tasks but can only view and delete the schedule.

According to an embodiment when a schedule is created in a financial close management system the schedule can have a default status of Pending. The default status of Pending allows adjustments to be made to the schedule. To run a schedule the status of the schedule can be changed from Pending to Open. When the schedule has a status of Open tasks can execute according to their definition. The status of the schedule can be changed to Closed after all tasks of the schedule are completed or after it is determined that no new tasks should be added to the schedule.

According to an embodiment of the invention a status of a schedule can determine in part how a schedule can be managed. Specifically the status of the schedule can determine in part what type of modifications can be made to an existing schedule. Specific types of modifications that can be made to an existing schedule will be discussed below in more detail. illustrates different statuses of a schedule according to an embodiment of the invention. Specifically illustrates four instances of a schedule schedule where each instance of schedule has one of the following statuses Pending Open Closed and Locked. In the instance of schedule where the status is Pending schedule has been created but is not yet active which means that none of the tasks of schedule have started. Thus schedule can be modified in any way as no initiated tasks will be affected by the modifications to schedule . Thus as illustrated in the financial close management system can allow a user to make any type of modification to schedule . However in the instance of schedule where the status is Open schedule is active and one or more tasks of schedule have started to run. Thus schedule can only be modified in a way that does not affect the tasks of schedule that have started to run. Thus as illustrated in the financial close management system only allows a user to perform one of the following modifications create a new task for schedule modify any task of schedule that has not begun or delete any task of schedule that has not begun.

In the instance of schedule where the status is Closed schedule is in an administrative status where no modifications to schedule are permitted. Specifically no additional tasks can be added no existing tasks can be modified and existing tasks can complete. Any tasks that have not yet run continue to execute according to schedule . In the instance of schedule where the status is Locked no modifications to schedule are permitted and all tasks are forced to a completed status. Any tasks that have not yet run will not execute.

Thus according to the illustrated embodiment of the ability to modify an existing schedule is restricted as the schedule proceeds from a status of Pending to a status of Open to a status of Closed and to a status of Locked. Furthermore according to the embodiment as illustrated in through the use of arrows a schedule can move from a status of Pending to a status of Open can move from a status of Open to a status of Closed can move from a status of Closed to a status of Locked can move from a status of Pending to a status of Closed and can move from a status of Pending to a status of Locked where a user of a financial close management system can change the status of the schedule. According to the embodiment a schedule can also move from a status of Closed back to a status of Open or from a status of Locked back to a status of Open but only an administrator of a financial close management system can change the status of the schedule from Closed or Locked back to Open.

In an embodiment when the schedule is created from the template a rule can be enforced so that a task is not scheduled on a date that is a weekend day i.e. Saturday or Sunday . In this embodiment each task of the template is scheduled for the first available date based on the assigned offset day and taking into account the rule that a task cannot be scheduled on a date that is a weekend day. For example if a task of the template assigned an offset day of 0 is scheduled for a date that is a Friday in the schedule then a task of the template assigned an offset date of 1 is scheduled for a date that is the following Monday in the schedule. Likewise if a task of the template assigned an offset day of 0 is scheduled for a date that is a Monday in the schedule then a task of the template assigned an offset date of 1 is scheduled for a date that is the previous Friday in the schedule.

According to an embodiment a user can manually align an offset day for a task of the template to a calendar date for the corresponding task in the schedule. For example if a template includes a task with an offset day of 0 and a task with an offset day of 1 a user can manually align the task with an offset day of 1 so that the task in the template with an offset day of 1 is scheduled in the schedule on a calendar date that is a number of days for example three days after the task in the template with an offset day of 0.

In accordance with the embodiment if a task has predecessors in other templates a user can review a list of predecessor tasks and manually adjust any predecessor task that requires assignment.

According to the embodiment the creation of the schedule based on the template can further include setting attributes of the schedule. More specifically attributes of the schedule can be set by the user. In an example embodiment the attributes of the schedule can include a schedule name a schedule description a start date an end date a year a period and a schedule owner.

According to an embodiment of the invention a user can create a schedule from a template by selecting a button displayed on a user interface of the financial close management screen which displays a Manage Schedules screen on the user interface. An example of a Manage Schedules screen displayed by the user interface is described in relation to below.

Modifications to an existing schedule can include adding a task to an existing schedule modifying an existing task of an existing schedule and deleting an existing task of an existing schedule. These modifications are described in relation to .

Modifications to an existing schedule can also include deleting an existing schedule. illustrates a method of deleting a schedule according to an embodiment of the invention. At an existing schedule is selected in a financial close management system. At the schedule is deleted from the financial close management system. According to the embodiment of the invention deleting a schedule removes the schedule and all references to it from the financial close management system.

Modifications to an existing schedule can also include duplicating an existing schedule. illustrates a method of duplicating a schedule according to an embodiment of the invention. At an existing schedule is selected in a financial close management system. At a duplicate schedule is created from the selected schedule. According to an embodiment of the invention the existing schedule is copied into a duplicate schedule which is a separate object in the financial close management system. The copying of the existing schedule can include copying each task of the existing schedule. Optionally the financial close management system can allow a user to modify attributes of the duplicate schedule. At the task calendar dates of the duplicate schedule are aligned. In accordance with the embodiment of the invention the calendar dates of tasks of the duplicate schedule are set where the calendar dates of the duplicate schedule are different from the calendar dates of the existing schedule.

Modifications to an existing schedule can also include validating a schedule. illustrates a method of validating a schedule according to an embodiment of the invention. At a schedule is selected. At a schedule is validated. More specifically according to the embodiment the financial close management system determines that the schedule complies with a set of business rules defined within the financial close management system. At when the validation of the schedule does not result in any errors the financial close management system displays a success message in a user interface. At when the validation of the schedule does result in errors the financial close management system displays a list of errors in the user interface.

Modifications to an existing schedule can also include creating a template from a schedule. illustrates a method of creating a template from a schedule according to an embodiment of the invention. At a schedule is selected. At a template is created from the schedule. According to the embodiment creating a template from the schedule includes copying each task from the schedule into the template. At the offset days of the tasks of the template are aligned with the calendar dates of the tasks of the schedule. According to the embodiment aligning the offset days of the tasks of the template with the calendar dates of the tasks of the schedule includes organizing the tasks of the schedule by offset days. According to the embodiment one or more tasks of the schedule can be assigned an offset day of 0. Furthermore all tasks of the schedule that precede the one or more tasks assigned an offset day of 0 can be assigned offset days that are negative numbers in the template and all tasks of the schedule that succeed the one or more tasks assigned an offset day of 0 can be assigned offset days that are positive numbers in the template.

Modifications to an existing schedule can also include importing a schedule. illustrates a method of importing a schedule according to an embodiment of the invention. At a file is selected. According to the embodiment a file can be a flat file such as a common separated values CSV flat file. The CSV flat file can follow a tagged column format where each row includes data associated with a task. Such data can include a task name a task type a task assignee and a task approver. According to the embodiment the file can be stored in the financial close management system. At the contents of the file are loaded into a schedule of the financial close management system. According to the embodiment the financial close management system can create a new schedule or select an existing schedule convert each row of the CSV flat file into a task object within the financial close management system and insert the converted task into the schedule. As a result a schedule is created which includes the tasks of the CSV flat file.

Modifications to an existing schedule can also include exporting a schedule. illustrates a method of exporting a schedule according to an embodiment of the invention. At a schedule is selected. The schedule can be an existing schedule of the financial close management system. At the contents of the schedule are loaded into a file. According to the embodiment the financial close management system can create a file within the system. The file can be a flat file such as a CSV flat file. The CSV flat file can follow a tagged column format where each row includes data associated with a task. Such data can include a task name a task type a task assignee and a task approver. Subsequently the financial close management system can select each task of the schedule and convert the task into a row for the flat file and load the row into the flat file. At the file is saved in the financial close management system.

According to an embodiment of the invention a user can import or export an existing schedule by selecting a button displayed on a user interface of the financial close management screen which displays a Manage Schedules screen on the user interface. An example of a Manage Schedules screen displayed by the user interface is described in relation to below.

In the second flow at a user schedules an existing template within the financial close management system. At a user validates the template. At a user sets attributes of the schedule. At a user aligns task days of the template with calendar dates of the schedule. At a user creates an empty schedule with the financial close management system and copies the tasks of the template to the schedule. This flow describes the process of creating a schedule from a template also described in relation to .

After either manually creating a schedule or creating a schedule from a template a user of the financial close management system can navigate to a main menu of a user interface at and can further navigate to a Manage Schedules screen of the user interface at . An example of a Manage Schedules screen displayed by the user interface is described in relation to below. According to the embodiment from the Manage Schedules screen the user can modify an existing schedule as previously described in relation to . More specifically at the user can create a new schedule or edit an existing schedule as previously described in relation to . At the user can duplicate an existing schedule as previously described in relation to . At the user can import or export an existing schedule as described in relation to . At the user can validate an existing schedule as described in relation to . At the user can create a template from a schedule as described in relation to . At the user can delete a schedule as described in relation to .

When modifying a schedule some tasks have parameters that need to be changed every time they are put into a schedule. For example a task with a date driven parameter can require a different date each time the task is added to a schedule. According to an embodiment of the invention a task type which is later inherited by a task can be defined to include one or more parameters that can be set at a schedule rather than a task. Subsequently according to the embodiment when adding a task which inherits from the task type to a schedule a value for the parameter can be set at the schedule rather than the task. According to an embodiment if a system has multiple tasks with a same parameter by setting a value for the parameter at the schedule a value can be set for the parameter of each task of the schedule.

Thus according to an embodiment of the invention attributes of a schedule can be managed thus adding significant flexibility to the schedule. In accordance with the embodiment a schedule can be created manually or from a template. In addition a schedule can be modified to increase the efficiency of a schedule according to the embodiment. Finally task parameter values can be set at a schedule rather than at each individual task which increases the speed and efficiency of the scheduling process.

One embodiment of the invention is directed towards filtering of custom attributes. According to the embodiment a custom attribute is an attribute of an object defined by a user. Once a user has defined one or more custom attributes the user can filter a set of objects based on a filtering criteria that includes one or more custom attributes to produce a subset of objects. The filtering can be dynamic so that when the set of objects is modified such as creating a new object deleting an existing object or modifying an existing object the filter is automatically updated. In an embodiment a filtering criteria can be based on the set of objects present in the system so that any filter that is defined returns at least one object. Furthermore in an embodiment once a filter is applied any additional filter applied to the original filter can have a filtering criteria based on the subset of objects returned by the original filter.

In one embodiment of the invention a user can filter on one or more custom attributes in a financial close management system. However in other embodiments a user can filter on one or more custom attributes in any type of computer system where a user can define one or more custom attributes for an object of the computer system.

An alternate embodiment of the invention is directed toward filtering of attributes. In contrast to custom attributes an attribute is a system defined attribute that can be associated with an object.

A filter defines a subset of objects such as task type task template and schedule based on a filtering criteria when applied to a set of objects in a system and displays the subset of objects to a user using a user interface. A filter can use any attribute associated with an object as its filtering criteria. As will be discussed in more detail a filter can also use a custom attribute associated with the object as its filtering criteria.

According to an embodiment of the invention a filter can use any attribute of an object as its filtering criteria. Also according to the embodiment the filter can be a dynamic filter and can automatically update its subset of objects based on changes to the set of objects such as new objects deleted objects or modifications to existing objects . Furthermore according to an embodiment a filter can be applied to another filter so that multiple filters can filter a set of objects to a subset of objects. In an embodiment utilizing multiple filters the filters can be applied and removed in any order. For example a user can apply a first filter a second filter and a third filter where the three filters filter a set of objects to a subset of objects. More specifically the first filter filters a set of objects to a subset of objects the second filter filters the subset of objects into a second subset of objects and the third filter filters the second subset of objects into a third subset of objects. Subsequently a user can remove a second filter and the set of objects can be re filtered based on only the first filter and the third filter. In the re filtering the first filter filters the set of objects to a subset of objects and the third filter filters the subset of objects into a second subset of objects.

Also according to an embodiment a system can determine the attributes associated with a set of objects present in a system and base a filtering criteria of a filter on attributes that are associated with at least one object so that the filter will always return at least one object. More specifically the filtering criteria of the filter can be defined to only include values of attributes that are associated with at least one object from the set of objects. For example if a set of objects includes a first task with an attribute A with a value of A1 and a second task with the attribute A with a value of A2 then the filtering criteria of the filter can be defined to only include one of or both the values A1 and A2 of attribute A. Thus according to the embodiment a filter that is defined will return at least one task either the first task the second task or both tasks .

According to another embodiment once a filter is applied a filtering criteria for an additional filter applied to the original filter can be based on the subset of objects returned by the original filter. More specifically the filtering criteria for the additional filter can be defined to only include values of attributes that are associated with at least one object from the subset of objects returned by the original filter. As an example a set of objects includes three tasks a first task a second task and a third task. The first task can include two attributes attribute A with a value of A1 and attribute B with a value of B1. The second task can also include two attributes attribute A with a value of A1 and attribute B with a value of B2. The third task can include three attributes attribute A with a value of A2 attribute B with a value of B3 and attribute C with a value of C1. Initially a filter can be defined where the filter defines a subset of objects using a filtering criteria. For example a filter can be defined that defines a subset of objects that includes the first task and a second task. In the embodiment a second filter can be defined where the second filter defines a second subset of objects using a second filtering criteria where the second filtering criteria be defined to only include values of attributes that are associated with at least one object from the subset of objects. According to the example the second filtering criteria can be defined to include one of or both the values B1 and B2 of attribute B. In this example the second filtering criteria does not include any values for attribute C because attribute C is not associated with any object in the subset of objects i.e. the first task and the second task .

While the illustrated embodiment of illustrates filtering of custom attributes in an alternate embodiment a filter can be configured to filter based on one or more attributes that are associated with at least one object. In this alternate embodiment custom attribute can be replaced with an attribute. As previously described an attribute is a system defined attribute as opposed to a user defined attribute. In this embodiment the functionality of the filter is the same as the functionality of filter illustrated in . Thus according to the alternate embodiment the only difference in functionality is that the attribute being filtered is an attribute rather than a custom attribute.

Thus according to an embodiment of the invention a custom attribute can be associated with an object and a set of objects can be filtered using a value of the custom attribute as filtering criteria. This allows a user to customize how a computer system filters its objects. According to an embodiment the filtering can be dynamic filtering. This allows the system to automatically update its displayed filters based on the custom attributes current defined for each object.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of an embodiment one embodiment some embodiments certain embodiment certain embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases an embodiment one embodiment some embodiments a certain embodiment certain embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

One having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the invention as discussed above may be practiced with steps in a different order and or with elements in configurations which are different than those which are disclosed. Therefore although the invention has been described based upon these preferred embodiments it would be apparent to those of skill in the art that certain modifications variations and alternative constructions would be apparent while remaining within the spirit and scope of the invention. In order to determine the metes and bounds of the invention therefore reference should be made to the appended claims.

