---

title: Mobile environment-controlled unit and method of operating a mobile environment-controlled unit
abstract: A mobile environment-controlled unit having a structure, a compartment supported by the structure, and an environmental-control system in environmental communication with the compartment. The environmental-control system is configured to control an environmental parameter of the compartment. The environmental-control system includes an internal combustion engine, having a starter, powering the environmental-control system; a battery powering the starter; and a controller. The controller monitors battery health status, predicts battery failure, and communicates the predicted battery failure. Also, described is a method of operating the mobile environment-controlled unit and a controller for controlling the mobile environment-controlled unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08536834&OS=08536834&RS=08536834
owner: Thermo King Corporation
number: 08536834
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101223
---
The invention relates to a mobile environment controlled unit such as an over the road compartment trailer having an environmental control system such as a refrigeration unit powered by an engine which is started by battery power.

Transport refrigeration systems having an engine for powering the refrigeration unit can be operated in at least two modes of operation continuous mode or cycle sentry mode. Continuous mode provides the benefit of a constant air flow through the compartment however consumes more fuel than cycle sentry mode. Cycle sentry mode typically runs the refrigeration unit when the temperature of the compartment is not within a specified range or when critical system conditions exits that limits or prevents a restart of the engine. Critical system conditions that may force the engine to start or force the engine to stay on can be a low battery voltage or a low engine temperature. An example of a mobile environment controlled unit having continuous and cycle sentry operation modes is a compartment trailer having a THERMO KING transport temperature control unit with CYCLE SENTRY protection.

To operate a mobile environment controlled unit in cycle sentry mode typically requires a reliable automatic engine start procedure which is dependent on the battery. The invention monitors battery health status and predicts battery failure. The prediction of battery failure reduces potential load loss or service calls for units that are out in the field. Further the invention can address the challenge of determining battery health status using data and information that are already available with some environmental control units.

In one embodiment the invention provides a mobile environment controlled unit having a structure a compartment supported by the structure and an environmental control system in environmental communication with the compartment.

The environmental control system is configured to control an environmental parameter of the compartment. The environmental control system includes an internal combustion engine having a starter powering the environmental control system a battery powering the starter and a controller. The environmental control system can also include an alternator for charging the battery after a successful engine start.

In one operation the controller monitors an electrical parameter of the battery monitors a non battery parameter of the mobile environment controlled unit and controls the engine in a cycle mode. The cycle mode includes starting the engine based on the monitoring of the electrical parameter of the battery stopping the engine based on the monitoring of the electrical parameter of the battery starting the engine based on the monitoring of the non battery parameter and stopping the engine based on the monitoring of the non battery parameter. The operation of the controller can further include monitoring a battery health status including counting a number of successive times the engine starts based on the monitoring of the electrical parameter of the battery without starting the engine based on the monitoring of the non battery parameter. The counting can be based further on monitoring a timer between either the stopping of the engine based on the monitoring of the electrical parameter of the battery or the stopping the engine based on the monitoring of the non battery parameter and the starting the engine based on the monitoring of the electrical parameter of the battery.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of operating a mobile environment controlled unit comprising a structure a compartment supported by the structure and an environmental control system in environmental communication with the compartment. The environmental control system includes an internal combustion engine having a starter and a battery powering the starter. The environmental control system can also include an alternator for charging the battery after a successful engine start. The method includes a monitoring an electrical parameter of the battery b monitoring a non battery parameter of the mobile environment controlled unit c starting the engine based on the monitoring the electrical parameter of the battery d stopping the engine based on the monitoring the electrical parameter of the battery e starting the engine based on the monitoring the non battery parameter of the mobile environment controlled unit f stopping the engine based on the monitoring the non battery parameter of the mobile environment controlled unit g repeatedly performing steps c d e and f h performing a repetitive timing function between the completion of either step d or step f and the starting of step c h incrementing a count based on a number of successive times the method repeats step c without sequentially performing step e the incrementing being further based on the repetitive timing function and i predicting the battery failing based on the count.

Other aspects of the invention will become apparent by consideration of the detailed description and accompanying drawings.

Before any embodiments of the invention are explained in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the following drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways.

In one implementation a refrigeration unit monitors battery health status by logging a number of consecutive engine restarts due to low battery voltage and a duration the engine is off before battery is discharged to a critical voltage level. The unit includes a restart counter to count the restarts due to low battery voltage and a restart timer which records the time between engine turning off and restart again due to low battery voltage. In one example if the unit has three consecutive engine restarts due to low battery voltage within a restart time limit an alarm triggers. The alarm predicts to the operator that the battery is at the end of its useful life and should be exchanged.

In a more specific implementation the unit operation includes one or more of the following 1 a restart counter for low battery engine starts 2 a restart timer for time between engine restarts resulting from low battery voltage 3 an end of battery life indication after a defined number e.g. three consecutive low battery restarts within the restart time limit 4 a reset of the counter if any other engine restart event occurs and 5 a reset counter if the engine has not restart for more than a duration e.g. 10 minutes .

The invention relates to a mobile environment controlled unit having an environmental control system and a compartment. Exemplary mobile environment controlled units include an over the road trailer over the road truck body bus transport container and railway car. The compartment can take the form of multiple compartments or have multiple zones. An exemplary environmental control system includes a refrigeration system heating system humidity system and air quality system. In the specific example discussed below the environment controlled unit is an over the road refrigerated semi trailer having a structure supporting or forming a single compartment cooled by a refrigeration unit . The structure also supports the refrigeration unit .

The refrigeration unit includes conventional refrigeration elements such as a compressor condenser expansion valve and evaporator . The compressor is powered directly or indirectly from an internal combustion engine . For example the compressor can be driven by an electronically controlled motor powered by any one of a belt driven alternator shore power or other power source. In the construction shown in the compressor includes a motor directly driven by a governed alternator having an internal combustion engine .

For the describe construction the refrigeration unit is controlled in a cycle mode which starts the engine when a parameter is out of range and stops the engine when the parameter is within range. The parameter may be for example battery voltage compartment temperature compartment humidity compartment air quality or engine temperature. In one specific example now discussed the engine starts after the battery voltage drops below a first voltage value and stops after the battery voltage rises above a second voltage value which may be the same as the first voltage value. In another specific example now discussed the engine starts after the compartment temperature rises above a first temperature value and stops after the compartment temperature falls below a second temperature value which may be the same as the first temperature value.

Referring again to a starter is powered by a battery and is controlled in response to a signal from a control module . The control module also receives a signal from a sensor . The signal has a value having a relation to the parameter. For example the sensor A can be a voltage sensor and the signal has a relation to the voltage of the battery. As another example the sensor B can be a temperature sensor and the signal has a relation to the temperature of the compartment . In another example the sensor C may sense a first parameter and the control of the engine starter is based on a second parameter having a relation to the first parameter.

Before proceeding further it should be understood that while the control module is discussed herein as a module and specifically a user interface module the control module can comprise multiple modules.

The control module includes among other things a controller a power supply module a user interface and a communications module . The controller includes combinations of software and hardware that are operable to among other things control the operation of the refrigeration unit . In one construction the controller includes a printed circuit board PCB that is populated with a plurality of electrical and electronic components that provide power operational control and protection to the control module . In some constructions the PCB includes for example a processing unit e.g. a microprocessor a microcontroller or another suitable programmable device a memory and a bus. The bus connects various components of the PCB including the memory to the processing unit . The memory includes for example a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a flash memory a hard disk or another suitable magnetic optical physical or electronic memory device. The processing unit is connected to the memory and executes software that is capable of being stored in the RAM e.g. during execution the ROM e.g. on a generally permanent basis or another non transitory computer readable medium such as another memory or a disc. Additionally or alternatively the memory is included in the processing unit . The controller also includes an input output I O system that includes routines for transferring information between components within the controller and other components of the control module . For example the communications module is configured to provide communication between the control module and one or more additional devices within the trailer or tractor or external to the trailer or tractor.

Software included in the implementation of the control module is stored in the memory of the controller . The software includes for example firmware one or more applications program data one or more program modules and other executable instructions. The controller is configured to retrieve from memory and execute among other things instructions related to the control processes and methods described below. For example the controller is configured to execute instructions retrieved from the memory for monitoring battery health status predicting battery failure and communicating the predicted battery failure. In other constructions the controller or external device includes additional fewer or different components.

The PCB also includes among other things a plurality of additional passive and active components such as resistors capacitors inductors integrated circuits and amplifiers. These components are arranged and connected to provide a plurality of electrical functions to the PCB including among other things filtering signal conditioning or voltage regulation. For descriptive purposes the PCB and the electrical components populated on the PCB are collectively referred to as the controller .

The user interface is included to control the control module or the operation of the refrigeration unit as a whole. The user interface is operably coupled to the controller to control for example setting the operation of the refrigeration unit and communicating faults of the refrigeration unit . The user interface can include any combination of digital and analog input output devices required to achieve a desired level of interfacing with an operator. For example the user interface can include a computing device having a display and input devices a touch screen display a plurality of knobs dials switches buttons faders or the like.

At step the control module determines whether an alarm had been triggered. The alarm can be a previous indication of a predicted battery failure. If an alarm was triggered then the control module determines whether the alarm is manually cleared by an operator step . If the alarm is cleared then the control module clears step a counter referred to herein as the RESTART COUNTER and resets step a timer referred to herein as the RESTART TIMER. If the alarm is not manually cleared then the control module with respect to process continuously repeats steps and . If no alarm has been triggered step then the operation proceeds to step .

At step the control module determines whether the refrigeration unit is in a mode referred to herein as the NULL MODE. The NULL MODE refers to a mode where the control module monitors the refrigeration unit and more broadly the mobile environment control unit and stays in a ready state in anticipation of returning to an active control mode such as a mode referred to herein as COOL MODE. If the control module is not in NULL MODE e.g. is in COOL MODE then the control module determines step whether a transition has occurred to the NULL MODE. For example the refrigeration unit can cease cooling i.e. can cease being in COOL MODE and proceed to the ready state i.e. enter NULL MODE. When the process transitions to NULL MODULE step the control module starts the RESTART TIMER step . The timer starts a count for a duration e.g. 10 minutes .

If the control module is in NULL MODE step then the control module determines whether a restart of the engine occurs because of a low battery voltage step . If a restart of the engine occurred not because of a low battery voltage but for some other reason step such to enter the COOL MODE then the control module clears the RESET COUNTER and the RESET TIMER step .

If the control module did restart the engine because of a low battery voltage step then the control module determines whether the RESTART TIMER had expired step e.g. the RESTART TIMER is at zero. If so then a sufficient time had elapsed since the previous restart due to low battery voltage and the control module clears the RESTART COUNTER and the RESTART TIMER.

If the RESTART TIMER has not expired step then a restart due to a low battery voltage has occurred too soon from the previous operation of the engine . The control module increments the RESTART COUNTER step and compares the RESTART COUNTER to a threshold step . Depending on the result of the comparison e.g. if the RESTART COUNTER equals the threshold such as three the control module triggers an alarm step which is communicated to an operator.

Accordingly the invention provides a new and useful mobile environment control unit method of operating the mobile environment control unit and related controller for monitoring battery health status predicting battery failure and communicating the predicted battery failure. Various features and advantages of the invention are set forth in the following claims.

