---

title: Directing payments to satisfy periodic financial obligations
abstract: Methods, computer program products, and systems, related to financial payments are provided. Data corresponding to payments made by a first financial institution is analyzed to identify periodic financial obligations and a specific biller associated with each obligation. A visual user interface including a mechanism through which a user can submit a make-payments notification is generated and provided to a client computer. A first make-payments notification identifying an obligation and a specific biller is received. A determination is made as to whether the specific biller is automatically requesting payments to satisfy the obligation identified in the make-payments notification, and if so, a cease-billing instruction is caused to be sent to the specific biller. A billing instruction, instructing the first specific biller to automatically request payments from a second financial institution to satisfy the obligation, is caused to be sent to the first specific biller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129268&OS=09129268&RS=09129268
owner: Yodlee, Inc.
number: 09129268
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100316
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 162 905 titled Directing Payments to Satisfy Periodic Financial Obligations filed Mar. 24 2009.

As the Internet has grown in popularity more users are turning to services provided over the Internet to help manage their finances.

These services can be provided by financial institutions such as banks or credit card companies or by account aggregators who aggregate and present user specific financial information from one or more financial institutions.

Users typically use a user name and password to log in to web page s maintained by a financial institution or an account aggregator. From the web page s the user can access online banking electronic bill payment account aggregation and other online financial services.

Online banking provides a user access to his or her financial information and also offers a number of services to a user. Users can for example view their statements online including transaction details and cancelled checks transfer balances online and apply for loans online.

Users can also use electronic bill payment to pay bills online by transferring money from an account to a creditor through the Internet. Many financial institutions and account aggregators allow a user to pay all of his or her bills from their web page s . Users can also schedule payments to creditors from some financial institution and account aggregator web pages. Users can also authorize automatic payments to satisfy periodic financial obligations. A payment is made automatically when for example a biller charges a user account or debits a user account without direct user input.

Account aggregation involves presenting financial information related to one or more accounts of a user in one place. Each account can be with a different financial institution. Account aggregation makes it easy for a user to quickly get a picture of his or her overall finances.

This specification relates to identifying payments made to satisfy periodic financial obligations and in response to user input instructing specific billers to request payment from a different source.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of collecting in a computer system data corresponding to one or more user transactions. Each transaction is a payment made by a first financial institution. One or more periodic financial obligations of a first user are identified from the data. A specific biller is associated with each periodic financial obligation in the computer system. A visual user interface is generated with the computer system and provided to a client computer of the first user. The visual user interface identifies one or more specific billers. Each specific biller is associated with at least one of the periodic financial obligations of the first user. The visual user interface provides a mechanism through which the first user can submit a make payments notification identifying one of the one or more specific billers. A first make payments notification is received in the computer system. The first make payments notification identifies a first specific biller associated with a first periodic financial obligation. It is determined in the computer system whether the first specific biller is automatically requesting payments to satisfy the first periodic financial obligation from the first financial institution. If so a first cease billing instruction is caused to be sent to the first specific biller. The first cease billing instruction instructs the second biller to stop requesting payments to satisfy the first periodic financial obligation from the first financial institution. A first billing instruction is caused to be sent to the first specific biller. The first billing instruction instructs the first specific biller to automatically request payments from a second financial institution to satisfy the first periodic financial obligation. Other implementations include corresponding systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

These and other implementations can optionally include one or more of the following features. The first specific biller can be automatically requesting payments to satisfy the first periodic financial obligation from the first financial institution. The data corresponding to one or more user transactions can include a description of each user transaction and identifying a periodic financial obligation can include using the descriptions of one or more user transactions to identify automatic payments. The data corresponding to one or more user transactions can include a description of each user transaction and identifying a periodic financial obligation can include using the descriptions of one or more user transactions to identify periodic payments.

One or more user transactions can be categorized into a respective transaction category and a periodic financial obligation can be identified using the transaction categories of one or more user transactions. Identifying a periodic financial obligation can include using the identity of a second specific biller with whom the transaction is conducted.

The first specific biller can be further associated with a second periodic financial obligation of the first user. It can be determined whether the first specific biller is automatically requesting payments to satisfy the second periodic financial obligation from a third financial institution and if so a second cease billing instruction can be caused to be sent to the first specific biller. The second cease billing instruction can instruct the first specific biller to stop requesting payments to satisfy the second periodic financial obligation from the third financial institution. A second billing instruction can be caused to be sent to the first specific biller. The second billing instruction can instruct the second biller to automatically request payments from a second financial institution to satisfy the second periodic financial obligation.

An enrollment notification can be received in the computer system. The enrollment notification can indicate that the first user authorizes the collection of the data corresponding to the one or more automatic user transactions.

Additional data corresponding to one or more additional user transactions can be collected in the computer system. The additional data can be examined in the computer system to determine if the first financial institution has stopped making payments to the first specific biller to meet the first periodic financial obligation. For each identified periodic financial obligation the future value of revenue for the second financial institution associated with making payments to a specific biller to meet the periodic financial obligation can be predicted in the computer system. An incentive associated with each identified specific biller can be calculated. The incentive is a benefit the first user will receive for requesting that the second financial institution make payments to the specific biller to meet one or more periodic financial obligations. The incentive can be calculated based on the predicted future value of revenue for the second financial institution associated with making payments to the specific biller to meet the one or more periodic financial obligations. The visual user interface can further display the incentive associated with each identified specific biller. A fee amount can be calculated. A payment request can be caused to be sent to the second financial institution. The payment request can specify a payment equal to the fee amount. A notification that a payment equal to the fee amount has been received from the second financial institution can be received in the computer system.

Data corresponding to one or more user transactions through a first financial institution can be collected in the computer system. The data can be analyzed to determine revenue received by the second financial institution as a result of the payments made to meet the first periodic financial obligation. A report of the received revenue can be generated in the computer system. The report can be caused to be sent to the second financial institution.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Users can view all of their payments in a consolidated dashboard of bills that makes it easier to understand their total bill payment obligations. Users can easily begin automatic payments to satisfy their periodic financial obligations. Users can easily change which financial institution is making automatic payments to satisfy their periodic financial obligations. A financial institution can increase its revenue by making more automatic payments on behalf of users.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Each financial institution is an institution that provides financial services deals in financial instruments or lends invests or stores money. Examples of financial institutions include banks brokerage firms credit card companies credit unions and savings and loans. Each financial institution has financial information about users who have an account with the financial institution stored on its server or respectively for example in a database. The financial information can also be stored on the facilitator s server . A user can have an account with the financial institution when for example the user deposits money at the institution or has a line of credit provided by the institution.

Financial information includes for example customer data account data financial institution data payee data and transaction data. Customer data can include the customer s name and contact information e.g. the customer s address telephone number and email address. Customer data can also include the customer s password or PIN. Account data can include the customer s account numbers financial institutions and account balances. The financial institution data can include the financial institution s name and address and the financial institution s ABA or routing number. Where the financial institution s server makes electronic payments to payees the payee data can include the payee s name contact information e.g. the customer s address telephone number and email address and can also identify the bank and account number which receive payments. The transaction data includes data for individual transactions e.g. the identity of customer the identity of payee date of the transaction the amount of payment the account from or to which payment will be made and a transaction identifier e.g. a check number. Transaction data can also include additional information about the payee such as the payee s address or the bank and account number where the payee received the payment. Transaction data can also include a summary of the transaction e.g. a short description of the transaction.

A user has an account with the first financial institution. The user also has an account with the second financial institution and uses a computer to access financial information related to the account with the second financial institution from the facilitator s server . The facilitator s server transmits data including the requested financial information to the user s computer . The user s computer then presents the requested financial information to the user. A user may access information about multiple accounts at once.

The specific biller s computer is used by the specific biller to receive payment instructions and send payment requests. A specific biller submits requests for payment to a financial institution or a user for for example goods or services rendered. Examples of specific billers include a cell phone company a utility company and a cable company.

The facilitator s server runs applications that provide three main services account aggregation presentation of financial information and automatic bill payments. The facilitator s server can provide these services directly to a user or the facilitator can act as a backend provider and provide software support and other tools to the second financial institution s server to allow the second financial institution s server to provide some or all these services to a user. In some implementations the facilitator and the second financial institution are the same entity and the facilitator s server and the financial institution are the same server.

When the facilitator s server provides these services directly to a user it can do so on behalf of the second financial institution. In this implementation the facilitator s server can optionally brand communications it sends to the user s computer with the second financial institution s logo colors or other information so that the user viewing the communication on his or her computer believes he or she is interacting with the second financial institution s server rather than the facilitator s server . In brief the facilitator s server can store data associating financial institutions with graphic images and color codes e.g. in a database. When the facilitator s server generates a user interface e.g. a web page branded as a financial institution the server inserts the graphic images and color codes associated with the financial institution into the user interface that is then sent to the user e.g. into a markup language document corresponding to a web page.

Account aggregation involves collecting financial information about a user. Data representing this information is optionally stored in a data repository e.g. a database on the facilitator s server on the first financial institution s server or on the second financial institution s server .

Financial information can be collected in different ways. For example in some implementations information is received directly from a financial institution s server or . In some implementations the facilitator s server runs one or more agents to extract user specific financial information from various web pages and other consumer accessible channels for example public OFX feeds. An agent is a computer program that extracts financial information by for example screen scraping by parsing the HTML code of web pages and identifying relevant information or by extracting financial information from data feeds.

A web page is a block of data identified by a URL that is available on the Internet. One example of a web page is a HyperText Markup Language HTML file. Web pages commonly contain content however web pages can also refer to content outside the web page that is presented when the web page loads in a user s web browser. Web pages can also generate content dynamically based on interactions with the user.

A public OFX feed is a stream of financial data sent to another computer for example over the Internet by a server of one or more financial institutions where the data is formatted in accordance with the Open Financial Exchange standard.

Financial information is presented to the user through one or more user interfaces generated by the facilitator s server and sent to the user s computer . The user interface can also provide traditional on line services associated with a financial institution. For example for banks credit unions and savings and loans these traditional on line services include paying bills transferring funds electronically and reviewing statements. For credit card companies the traditional on line services include paying bills reviewing transactions reviewing statements performing balance transfers between two credit cards and requesting a credit line increase. For brokerage firms the traditional on line services include providing account information providing information about a user s investments supporting on line trading and providing real time quotes.

The user interfaces can be generated directly by the facilitator s server or by the second financial institution s server with backend support from the facilitator. Backend support includes software support and other tools that allow the second financial institution s server to generate user interfaces to present financial information to the user through the user s computer . These tools can be software based hardware based or both. In some implementations the user interface is a webpage.

The facilitator s server also provides automatic bill payment services that allow a user to easily select transactions made through the first financial institution that are candidates for automatic bill payment and cause future payments to be automatically made through the second financial institution. Transaction data in the aggregated financial information is used to identify one or more periodic financial obligations of the user. Each periodic financial obligation is a regularly repeating obligation that a user owes to a specific biller. For example a cell phone user with a monthly cell phone plan needs to pay his or her cell phone bill every month. The cell phone owner is the user the specific biller is the cell phone company being paid and the periodic financial obligation is obligation to pay the cell phone bill each month. An obligation can still be a periodic financial obligation even when the amount owed varies from month to month for example a user may owe 20 on his or her cell phone bill one month and 30 the next month.

The facilitator s server associates each periodic financial obligation with a specific biller. For example the cell phone bill will be associated with the cell phone company. The facilitator s server generates a user interface e.g. a web page that identifies one or more specific billers where each specific biller is associated with at least one periodic financial obligation of the user . The user interface allows a user to use his or her computer to submit a make payments notification to facilitator s server . The make payments notification identifies a specific biller and one or more financial obligations to that specific biller that the user would like to have automatically paid by the second financial institution. When the facilitator s server receives the make payments notification it determines whether the specific biller is automatically requesting payment from the first financial institution to meet the identified period financial obligations and if so it sends data to the specific biller s computer instructing the specific biller to stop automatically requesting payments from the first financial institution to satisfy the periodic financial obligation s . The facilitator s server then sends data to the specific biller s computer instructing the specific biller to automatically request payments from the second financial institution to satisfy the periodic financial obligation s .

The facilitator has one or more servers . While only one server is shown in multiple servers can be used. In some implementations at least one of the facilitator s servers is a programmable general purpose computer. In some implementations at least one of the facilitator s servers is comprised of one or more computers in a server rack.

In various implementations the facilitator s server stores a transaction data repository such as a database. The transaction data repository stores data corresponding to one or more user transactions. In some implementations the transaction data repository is stored on the first financial institution s server . In some implementations the transaction data repository is stored on the second financial institution s server . The transaction data repository does not have to be solely on one machine but for example can be stored across one or more of the facilitator s server the first financial institution s server and the second financial institution s server . In some implementations the transaction data repository stores additional financial information of one or more users. In some implementations additional financial information of one or more users is stored in a separate repository e.g. a database on one or more of the facilitator s server the first financial institution s server or the second financial institution s server .

The facilitator s server runs a number of processes e.g. executable computer programs. In some implementations the facilitator s server runs a data engine a financial obligation identifier a financial obligation associator a user interface generator and an automatic payment determiner . Running a process includes for example calling a copy of the process providing system resources to the process and communicating with the process through a hardware or software interface. A hardware or software interface is an interface that allows processes to communicate with each other or with system hardware for example a system bus or commands specified in an application programming interface. In some implementations a copy of a process is called by instantiating a copy of the process. In some implementations a copy of a process is called by referencing an already running copy of the process.

The data engine extracts and gathers data corresponding to user transactions from the first financial institution s server and web pages. The data engine may also extract and gather transaction data from the second financial institution s server and web pages. In some implementations the data engine collects transaction data on the fly when it is needed. In another implementation the financial information is collected in advance and stored. In some implementations the data engine stores extracted financial information in a financial information repository on the facilitator s server . In some implementations the data engine stores extracted financial information in a transaction data repository on the first financial institution s server or the second financial institution s server .

The financial obligation identifier analyzes transaction data and identifies one or more periodic financial obligations of a user for example by examining descriptions of one or more transactions included in the data categorizing one or more transactions included the data or examining to whom one or more payments in the transaction data were made.

The financial obligation associator associates a periodic financial obligation with a specific biller.

The user interface generator generates user interfaces such as web pages and sends these through the communication interface through the network to the user s computer for presentation to the user. The user interfaces contain financial information relevant to the user. The user interfaces can also identify one or more specific billers that were associated with a periodic financial obligation by the financial obligation associator and provide a mechanism for a user to submit a make payments request requesting that the second financial institution make automatic payments to one of the specific billers to satisfy the periodic financial obligation.

The automatic payment determiner determines whether the first financial institution is already making automatic payments to the specific biller to satisfy a periodic financial obligation.

The facilitator s server also has one or more processors one or more additional devices a computer readable medium a communication interface and one or more user interface devices .

The facilitator sever communicates with the first financial institution s server the second financial institution s server the specific biller s computer and the user s computer through its communication interface . For example the facilitator s server receives notifications and sends instructions through its communication interface . The facilitator s server receives make payments notifications from the user s computer through the communication interface . The facilitator s server sends cease billing instructions and billing instructions to the specific biller s computer through the communication interface . The facilitator s server also sends generated user interfaces to the user interface presenter on the user s computer through the communication interface.

A user typically has a programmable general purpose computer . The user runs a user interface presenter on this computer that presents user interfaces generated by the facilitator s server to the user s computer . Presenting the user interfaces to the user can include displaying the user interfaces on a computer monitor or other display device. Presenting the user interfaces can also include any other method of conveying information to the user for example presenting sounds corresponding to the user interfaces or providing haptic feedback corresponding to the user interfaces.

In some implementations the user interface presenter is a computer program that presents data including for example text and pictures in a format specified by the facilitator s server . In some implementations the user interface presenter is a web browser for example Microsoft Internet Explorer available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. The web browser receives one or more web pages from the facilitator s server and presents the web pages to the user.

The first financial institution has one or more servers . While only one server is shown in multiple servers can be used. In some implementations at least one of the first financial institution s servers is a programmable general purpose computer. In some implementations at least one of the first financial institution s servers is comprised of one or more computers in a server rack.

In various implementations the first financial institution s server stores user financial information related to accounts a user has with the financial institution.

In some implementations the first financial institution s server also stores a transaction data repository such as a database that stores data corresponding to user transactions.

The second financial institution has one or more servers . While only one server is shown in multiple servers can be used. In some implementations at least one of the second financial institution s servers is a programmable general purpose computer. In some implementations at least one of the second financial institution s servers is comprised of one or more computers in a server rack.

In various implementations the second financial institution s server stores user financial information related to accounts a user has with the financial institution.

In some implementations the second financial institution s server also stores a transaction data repository such as a database that stores data corresponding to user transactions.

The specific biller has a computer through which it receives cease billing instructions and billing instructions. In some implementations the specific biller s computer also submits payment requests to the first financial institution s server and the second financial institution s server and receives notification of payments.

While illustrates one possible structure and format for the transaction data a number of other structures and formats are possible for example storing the specific biller as a separate part of the data or formatting the transaction data as a database.

The data in is arranged in a table. Each column in the table corresponds to a field. The transaction date is the date on which the transaction was conducted. The description is a brief description of the transaction. The description may include the specific biller the address of the specific biller a summary of why the transaction was made or other information relevant to the transaction. The amount is the amount of the transaction e.g. the amount of the payment. Each row in the table corresponds to a particular transaction. For example row is for a payment made to Verizon on Nov. 21 2005. Other fields and other arrangements of the data are also possible.

The transaction data can be used to identify periodic financial obligations in a number of ways. In some implementations the financial obligation identifier process on the facilitator s server parses the description and extracts words that indicate an automatic payment. For example in entry the description specifies autopay. This word can be used to identify the payment as an automatic payment and to identify an associated periodic financial obligation.

In some implementations the financial obligation identifier process on the facilitator s server parses the description and extracts words to identify the specific biller to whom a payment was made. For example the description of transaction is PG E Northern California. The financial obligation identifier process can parse this text and extract PG E Northern California as the specific biller. Once the specific biller is identified the financial obligation identifier process on the facilitator s server can use the specific biller s identity to decide whether the transaction should be used to identify a periodic financial obligation for example by comparing the specific biller to a database that identifies specific billers to which users owe periodic financial obligations. For example in entry Verizon is a company to which people can make automatic payments for example automatic payments of monthly cell phone bills . Therefore entry can be used to identify a periodic financial obligation.

In some implementations the financial obligation identifier process categorizes the payment and uses the category to determine whether a periodic financial transaction should be identified. For example in entry PG E Northern California is a utility company. People usually pay their utility bills once a month. Thus the financial obligation identifier process would identify a periodic financial obligation owed to the utility company. In contrast in entry a payment is made to McDonalds. McDonalds is a restaurant. People usually do not pay restaurants on a periodic basis but instead pay restaurants as services are rendered. Thus a payment to a restaurant would not be used to identify a periodic financial obligation.

In some implementations the financial obligation identifier process on the facilitator s server identifies a periodic financial obligation when payments of similar amounts to the same specific biller appear regularly in the data. For example entry is a payment to Verizon for 60.45. Entry is a payment made about a month later to Verizon for 60.50. These two similar payments of about 60 a piece made to the same biller made about a month apart can be used to identify a periodic financial obligation.

In some implementations the facilitator s server identifies a periodic financial obligation when payments made at regular dates appear in the transaction data regardless of the amount of the payments. For example entries and are entries made to the same biller Verizon about a month apart. Therefore they can be used to identify a periodic financial obligation regardless of the amount of payment.

Additional details on how transaction data can be used to identify periodic financial obligations are given below in the discussion of .

In step data corresponding to one or more user transactions involving a first financial institution is collected e.g. by a facilitator s server .

In various implementations a data engine computer program is used to collect the data corresponding to one or more user transactions conducted through a first financial institution. In some implementations one or more agents are also used. Agents are processes or computer programs run for example on a facilitator s server or a financial institution s server. Agents can use many techniques to collect transaction data. For example agents can navigate to relevant websites and parse the HTML code of the websites to extract transaction data based on a template. The template can be generated by humans sometimes with input from the user. If a user name or password is needed to access a web page the agent can use a stored user name and password of the user or can register the user with the web page to create an account for the user. Agents can also search the Internet including using private search engines available on individual websites. These techniques are explained in more detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 871 220 6 567 850 6 278 993 6 199 007 and 7 200 804 and U.S. Patent Publications 2002 0019810 2007 0180380 and 2007 0130347 all of which are incorporated by reference. In another implementation the facilitator receives transaction data in useable form directly from the first financial institution s server.

In some implementations data is only collected for transactions in a certain time period for example the last three months. In some implementations all available data is collected. In some implementations all available data is collected but only transaction data from a certain time period for example the last three months is used in step .

In some implementations before the facilitator s server collects data corresponding to one or more user transactions it receives an enrollment notification e.g. through the network from a user s computer . The enrollment notification is data indicating that that a user authorizes the collection of the data corresponding to one or more of the user transactions. The enrollment notification may include additional information such as a user name or password related to each user account from which data is to be collected. The facilitator s server optionally stores some or all of the enrollment notification data.

In step one or more periodic financial obligations of a first user are identified e.g. by a facilitator s server .

In various implementations periodic financial obligations are identified by the facilitator s server by examining the stored transaction data. In some implementations the transaction data is stored as one or more strings and examining the stored transaction data includes parsing one or more strings and extracting needed information. In some implementations the transaction data is stored as a relational database and examining the stored transaction data includes retrieving needed information from the relational database by for example performing one or more queries. Other techniques for examining the stored transaction data based on the form the data is stored in are also possible.

Various techniques for identifying periodic financial obligations can be used by the facilitator s server. In some implementations the data corresponding to each transaction includes a description of the transaction. In these implementations the facilitator s server can identify a periodic financial obligation by parsing the description of the one or more user transactions recognizing characters that identify a transaction as an automatic payment and identifying periodic financial obligations corresponding to the automatic payments. For example words and phrases like autopay e pay electronic payment internet service pay service instant transfer etc. may be used to identify an automatic payment. The facilitator s server can also identify a periodic financial obligation by parsing the description of the one or more user transactions recognizing characters that identify a transaction as a periodic payment and identifying periodic financial obligations corresponding to the periodic payments. For example words and phrases such as monthly service charge or payment for monthly service can identify a transaction as a periodic payment.

In some implementations the facilitator s server categorizes each user transaction into a transaction category. For example a transaction indicating a payment to Safeway a grocery store would be classified as a payment to a grocery store while a transaction indicating a payment to the Pacific Gas and Electric Company a utility company would be classified as a utility payment. Characterizing transactions into transaction categories can be done for example by extracting the identity of the specific biller to whom a payment was made from the transaction data looking the specific biller up in a database that associates specific billers with categories and selecting the category associated with the specific biller in the database. In some implementations the associations in the database are generated based on data received from one or more users computers where the data associates a given specific biller with a given category. In some implementations the database is generated based on data received from respective billers computers where the data identifies a category for a respective biller. Other sources for the data are also possible. The database is optionally stored on the facilitator s computer. Characterization techniques are explained in more detail in U.S. Patent Publication 2006 0101323 which is incorporated by reference.

Once each user transaction is categorized the facilitator s server can use the category to identify periodic obligations. In various implementations once the category for the transaction has been identified the category is looked up in a database that identifies categories that are likely to be associated with periodic financial obligations and transactions that are in categories likely to be periodic financial obligations are used to identify periodic financial obligations. Certain categories of transactions are more likely than others to indicate a periodic financial obligation. For example a payment to a cell phone company is likely to be part of a periodic financial obligation. Cell phone companies typically send a bill to a customer once each month for all expenses incurred since the last bill. Similarly a payment to a utility company is likely to be part of a periodic financial obligation. Utility companies typically bill customers once a month for utilities used since the last bill. In contrast a payment to a restaurant is not likely to be part of a periodic financial obligation. Restaurants charge customers as services are provided. Thus payments to a restaurant are unlikely to be on a periodic basis but instead are usually on an as rendered basis. In some implementations the database is stored on the facilitator s server. The facilitator can build the database by for example receiving data from one or more user s computers indicating that a particular category is likely to be associated with a periodic financial obligation or receiving data from one or more user s computers indicating that a given transaction is part of a periodic financial obligation analyzing the transaction to determine its category and adding an entry to the database indicating the category is likely to be associated with periodic financial obligations. Other methods of building the database are also possible.

In some implementations the facilitator s server identifies a specific biller associated with a transaction and uses that identification to identify a periodic financial obligation of the user. To identify the specific biller associated with a transaction the facilitator s server examines the transaction data for the transaction and extracts the specific biller. Extracting the specific biller can include for example parsing the data if it is stored as a string of text or looking up the specific biller in a database including the transaction. Much as some categories of transactions are more likely than other categories of transactions to correspond to periodic financial obligations payments to certain specific billers are more likely than payments to other specific biller to correspond to periodic financial obligations. For example a payment to Pacific Gas and Electric is more likely to be associated with a periodic financial obligation than a payment to McDonalds because Pacific Gas and Electric typically bills users monthly while McDonalds typically bills users as services are rendered. In some implementations once the specific biller is extracted from the data the specific biller is looked up in a database that identifies specific billers who are likely to be associated with periodic financial obligations. In some implementations the database is stored on the facilitator s server. The facilitator can build the database by for example receiving data from one or more specific billers computers indicating that the specific biller is likely to be associated with a periodic financial obligation or receiving input from one or more human beings indicating that a specific biller is likely to be associated with a periodic financial obligation. Other sources of data are also possible.

In some implementations the facilitator s server identifies a periodic financial obligation when payments of similar amounts to the same specific biller appear regularly in the data. For example if a user regularly paid 50 to the same specific biller each month the facilitator s server could identify the pattern of payments and identify a periodic financial obligation corresponding to the pattern of payments. In some implementations the amounts paid do not have to be the same for example the amounts could differ by a threshold e.g. 1 or 5 and still be used to identify a periodic financial obligation.

In some implementations the facilitator s server identifies a periodic financial obligation when payments made at regular dates appear in the transaction data. For example if a user made a payment to a specific biller every two weeks or the same time each month the facilitator s server can identify a periodic financial obligation corresponding to those payments. The payments do not have to be made on a completely regular schedule for example the payment date could differ by a threshold e.g. 2 days and still be used to identify a periodic financial obligation.

In step a specific biller is associated with each periodic financial obligation e.g. by a facilitator s server .

In various implementations the facilitator s server associates a periodic financial obligation with a specific biller by examining the transaction data for the one or more transactions used to identify the periodic financial obligation extracting the specific biller for the one or more transactions and associating the periodic financial obligation with the specific biller for the one or more transactions.

In step a visual user interface is generated and provided to a user s computer e.g. by a facilitator s server .

In various implementations the facilitator s server generates a visual user interface that identifies one or more specific billers each of whom was associated with a periodic financial obligation in step and provides it to a client computer of a user by for example transmitting data comprising the user interface to the user s computer. The visual user interface also provides a mechanism through which a user can submit a make payments notification identifying one or more of the specific billers. Additional information can be included in the visual user interface including for example additional financial information of the user the category of the periodic financial obligation additional information about the specific biller or an incentive associated with having a second financial institution automatically make payments to each specific biller. The mechanism can be anything that allows a user to make a selection and indicate his or her computer should transfer data identifying the selection to the user. For example the mechanism can be a button displayed in the user interface that the user can click on to instruct his or her computer to send data indicating which specific billers have been selected to the facilitator s server.

In some implementations the visual user interface is a web page. The facilitator s server generates the web page using for example a user interface generator program. The facilitator s server then transmits data comprising the web page to a user s computer for example through a network. The user s computer receives the data comprising the web page and presents the web page to the user e.g. in a web browser. The user s computer also receives selections and other input from the user and transmits a notification of the user s selection to the facilitator s server for example through a network.

Other visual user interfaces are possible for example data including text and pictures that are presented to a user by a program other than a web browser.

In some implementations before the user interface is transmitted to the user s computer the identity of the user can be verified e.g. by the facilitator s server . The facilitator s server receives data including login information from the user s computer for example through a network. Login information includes some user identifying information for example the MAC address of the user s computer or a username and password. The facilitator s server uses the login information to determine and verify the user s identity.

In some implementations a user s computer does not transmit data comprising login information to the facilitator s server but instead sends the data to a financial institution s server for example the first financial institution s server. The financial institution s server verifies the user s identity and sends data comprising an authentication message to the facilitator s server through for example the network. The facilitator s server uses the authentication message to determine and verify the user s identity.

In some implementations the user interface includes additional information such as a user incentive based on the predicted future value of revenue to the second financial information from making payments to a specific biller to meet a periodic financial obligation.

A financial institution receives revenue from making payments for example from interest a user pays on the amount of the payment from a fee paid by a user or from an interchange fee paid by the specific biller e.g. a percentage of the payment such as 1 2 .

In various implementations the facilitator s server uses one or more computer programs to predict the future value of revenue. These computer programs predict the future value of revenue by for example analyzing transaction data and other inputs.

The future value of revenue can be predicted in various ways. In some implementations the future value of revenue is based on a flat fee per transaction. In some implementations where a flat fee is charged per transaction the future value of revenue can be based on the frequency of the periodic financial obligation i.e. how frequently payments are made. In some implementations the future value of revenue is based on a fee specific to each category of transaction or each specific biller. In these implementations the future value of revenue can be predicted based on the categorization of the transaction or the identity of the specific biller.

In some implementations the future value of revenue depends on the amount of each payment for example because a fee charged by the financial institution depends on the amount of each payment or because the future value of revenue includes expected interest payments. In these implementations the future value of revenue can be predicted in various ways. In some implementations the future value of revenue is based on the category of the periodic financial obligation. Certain categories are more likely to lead to higher revenue. For example a mortgage payment is usually a consistently large payment. In contrast a cell phone bill is usually a smaller payment. Thus the predicted future value of revenue from paying a mortgage payments is higher than the predicted future value from paying a cell phone bill. In some implementations the future value of revenue is based on the amount of money paid to a specific biller in one or more of the prior transactions used to identify the periodic financial obligation. Some bills are fairly consistent from month to month and so the amount of past bills is indicative of the amount of future bills. For example a cable bill is usually the same from month to month while an electricity bill can vary dramatically depending on how much electricity is used during the month. Thus these implementations may also take into account the consistency of the periodic financial obligation when predicting future revenue based on past transactions. In some implementations seasonal trends can also be used to predict the future value of revenue. For example in Houston Tex. utility bills are usually higher in the summer than the winter because Houston has very hot summers and relatively mild winters. Thus more electricity is needed to keep a house cool in the summer than to keep a house warm in the winter. If a user lives in Houston Tex. the predicted future value of revenue from the utility bill could take this seasonal trend into account by for example discounting amounts the user paid in the summer and increasing amounts the user paid in the winter when predicting the future value of revenue to attempt to arrive at a representative estimate.

In some implementations the facilitator s server uses one or more computer programs to calculate an incentive for the user based on the predicted future value of revenue. The incentive is a benefit the user will receive in return for allowing the second financial institution to make payments to satisfy a given periodic financial obligation or obligations with a given specific biller. The incentive can be any type of incentive used by financial institutions including for example cash back or reward points. For example the incentive can be calculated by taking the predicted future value of revenue and dividing it by 100 thus rewarding the user with one cent for every predicted future dollar. In some implementations the incentive is included in the visual user interface generated by the facilitator s server.

In various implementations the first make payments notification is data sent from a user s computer to the facilitator s server for example through a network that identifies a specific biller and requests that one or more periodic financial obligations associated with the specific biller be paid by a second financial institution. The facilitator s server receives this data and optionally stores it.

In some implementations the first make payments notification includes data indicating that all periodic financial obligations associated with the specific biller should be paid by the second financial institution. In some implementations the first payments notification includes data indicating that a subset of all periodic financial obligations associated with the specific biller should be paid by the second financial institution.

In some implementations if the facilitator s server does not receive a make payments notification from a user s computer after generating a user interface and providing it to the first user it generates one or more user interfaces that include periodic reminders to encourage the user to submit a make payments notification and provides the user interfaces to the user s computer for example by sending data comprising the web pages through a network. In some implementations if the facilitator s server does not receive a make payments notification from a user s computer it generates and sends reminders to the user for example by sending a reminder e mail message to the user.

In step it is determined e.g. by a facilitator s server whether a specific biller is automatically requesting payments from a first financial institution to satisfy a first financial obligation.

In various implementations the facilitator s server determines if the specific biller is automatically requesting payments from a first financial institution to satisfy a given financial obligation by examining the transaction data. For example the facilitator s server can parse the description of a given transaction and extract words and phrases indicating an automatic payment e.g. autopay e pay electronic payment internet service pay service and instant transfer. If these words appear in descriptions for transactions associated with the periodic financial obligation e.g. used to identify the periodic financial obligation or from which the periodic financial obligation could have been identified then the facilitator s server can determine that the specific biller is automatically requesting payments from the first financial institution to satisfy the periodic financial obligation. Other methods of determining that the specific biller is automatically requesting payments to satisfy a periodic financial obligation are also possible.

If the specific biller is automatically requesting payments from a first financial institution to satisfy a first financial obligation in step a cease billing notification is sent to the specific biller e.g. by a facilitator s server .

In various implementations the facilitator s server sends data comprising a cease billing instruction to the specific biller s computer for example through a network. The data includes instructions to stop requesting payments from the first financial institution to satisfy the first financial obligation.

In some implementations a specific biller is automatically requesting payments from a first financial institution to satisfy more than one financial obligation of a user. In these implementations a cease billing instruction can be sent for each periodic financial obligation the user indicated the second financial institution should pay or a single cease billing instruction can be sent for all periodic financial obligations the user indicated the second financial institution should pay.

In some implementations once the cease billing instruction is sent to the specific biller the facilitator s server continues to collect and analyze transaction data for the user to determine if the first financial institution has stopped making payments to the specific biller to satisfy the periodic financial obligation. For example the facilitator s server can analyze data for transactions occurring after the cease billing instruction was sent much as the facilitator s server originally identified the periodic financial obligation from the transaction data. If the facilitator s server identifies the periodic financial obligation again then it can determine that the first financial institution has not stopped making payments to the first specific biller to meet the first periodic financial obligation. If the user requested that the second financial institution start making payments for multiple financial obligations all of the financial obligations can be monitored in the same way. In some implementations if the facilitator s server determines that the first financial institution is still making payments to satisfy the periodic financial obligation the facilitator s server can notify the user the specific biller the first financial institution or any combination of the three by for example sending data comprising a notification through a network to the relevant computer.

In various implementations the facilitator s server sends data comprising the billing instruction to the specific biller s computer for example through a network. The data includes instructions to automatically request payments from a second financial institution to satisfy the periodic financial obligation.

In some implementations the instructions to automatically request payments from a second financial institution include instructions to submit a credit card charge on the user s account with the financial institution. In other implementations the instructions to automatically request payments from a second financial institution include instructions to debit the user s account with the financial institution. Other instructions are also possible.

In some implementations a specific biller is associated with more than one periodic financial obligations of a user. In these implementations a separate billing instruction can be sent to the specific biller for each periodic financial obligation the user indicated should be paid by the second financial institution or a single billing instruction can be sent for each financial obligation the user indicated should be paid by the second financial institution.

In some implementations the facilitator s server generates a report of the revenue the second financial institution has received as a result of making the payments. The facilitator s server collects transaction data corresponding to one or more user transactions involving the second financial institution. The facilitator s server analyzes this data to determine how much revenue the second financial institution has received as a result of payments made to meet the first periodic financial obligation. For example the facilitator s server can run one or more computer programs that analyze the transaction data identify all payments made through the second financial institution to meet the first financial obligation determine the total amount of the payments or total number of payments and calculate the revenue the second financial institution can expect to receive from these payments. The calculated revenue is then included in a report generated by the facilitator s server. In some implementations the report further compares the actual revenue of the second financial institution with the predicted future value of revenue. In some implementations the report is stored for example in the facilitator s server. In some implementations the facilitator s server causes the report to be sent to the second financial institution. Causing the report to be sent to the second financial institution can include for example sending data comprising the report to the second financial institution s server generating a web page including the report and providing the web page to the second financial institution or instructing a computer program or a human being to send the report to the financial institution

In some implementations the facilitator s server requests payment from the second financial institution for its services. In these implementations the facilitator s server calculates a fee amount. The fee amount for example can be a flat amount based on an agreement with the second financial institution can be based on the predicted future revenue from the periodic financial obligation or can be based on the actual revenue received from making payments to meet the periodic financial obligation. The fee amount can be a one time payment made at the time the user switches to using the second financial institution to make payments and or the fee amount can be a recurring amount based on each automatic payment the user makes through the second financial institution e.g. 40 of the revenue earned from each payment . The fee amount is optionally stored e.g. in the facilitator s server. The facilitator s server causes a payment request specifying the fee amount to be sent to the financial institution. For example the facilitator s server can send data comprising the request to the second financial institution s server e.g. through a network the facilitator s server can generate a web page including the request and provide the web page to the second financial institution or the facilitator s server can instruct a computer program or a human being to send the request to the financial institution. Data indicating that a payment equal to the fee amount has been received from the second financial institution is then received in the facilitator s server.

Additional information can be displayed in the user interface. For example the user interface can identify the account from which the user was previously making payments here Citibank account . This account corresponds to the transaction data that the facilitator s server collected and used to identify the specific billers. The user interface can also specify the account to which the payments will be transferred here Chase Credit Card e.g. the financial institution that will be making future payments in response to the specific biller s request for payment once the payments are transferred.

The user interface can further provide the user with additional financial information. For example the user can click on Bills Overview to be shown an overview of his or her bills and the user can click on Payment Activity to see recent payment activity on one or more of his accounts.

In some implementations the user interface is branded for example at with a logo or other information from the financial institution to whom the payments are being switched or the logo or other information of the facilitator.

The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Instructions that implement operations associated with the methods described above can be stored in the memory or on the storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . In some implementations the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In some implementations the memory is a computer readable medium. In some implementations the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In some implementations the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In some implementations the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate physical components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices .

The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The term data processing apparatus encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some embodiments a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments of the invention have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

