---

title: Memristive device
abstract: A memristive device includes a first electrode and a second electrode crossing the first electrode at a non-zero angle. An active region is disposed between the first and second electrodes. The active region has defects therein. Graphene or graphite is disposed between the active region and the first electrode and/or between the active region and the second electrode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08546785&OS=08546785&RS=08546785
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08546785
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. 2008 0911510 002. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Nanometer scale crossed wire switching devices have previously been reported that can be reversibly switched. Such devices have been used to construct crossbar circuits and provide a promising route for the creation of ultra high density nonvolatile memory and systems with dynamic synaptic logic. A latch which is a component for logic circuits and for communication between logic and memory has been fabricated from a series connection of crossed wire switches. New logic families constructed entirely from crossbar arrays of switches or as hybrid structures composed of switches and transistors have also been described. These new logic families have the potential to dramatically increase the computing efficiency of CMOS circuits.

Memristor device operation is believed to rely on the motion of mobile charged species i.e. defects through an active region i.e. switching material between two electrodes. In a vertically oriented structure the active region is located between the edges of the top and bottom electrodes or other barrier layers positioned adjacent such top and bottom electrodes. It is believed that gas interaction occurs between the active region material and the external environment during electrical switching. More specifically when under bias and during switching between ON and OFF states material of the active region undergoes an electrochemical reaction and is released in the form of gas which causes the device to become more and more conductive. Such enhanced conductivity can lead to device failure. Additionally under zero bias the device resistance may drift towards a higher value due to the absorption of gas from the environment into the active region which can lead to volatility of the memory in the device. The addition of graphene or graphite to predetermined areas of the device can sufficiently isolate the active region from the environment thereby preventing or substantially reducing deleterious gas interactions. The graphene or graphite has a crystalline structure which is impermeable to a number of gases including oxygen nitrogen and sulfur gases and thus functions as a barrier to both gas release from and gas absorption into the active region. The memristive devices disclosed herein including graphene or graphite have improved endurance stability and non volatility.

As used herein the term graphene refers to a one atom thick planar layer of sp bonded carbon atoms that are configured in a two dimensional honeycomb crystal lattice. Also as used herein the term graphite refers to multiple layers of graphene where the number of graphene monolayers ranges from two to twenty. As such any device includes a maximum graphite thickness of about 8 nm. Since the graphite is composed of graphene the graphite also has a crystalline structure. The crystalline structures are ordered and thus the atoms are arranged in an orderly repeating pattern. Both the graphene and graphite are very thin and thus do not add bulk to the device. Still further the graphene and graphite used in the embodiments disclosed herein have few or no defects i.e. large cluster boundaries or pores therein. As such the crystalline structure enhances the gas blocking function of the graphene graphite. Unlike amorphous carbon graphene graphite does not have large cluster boundaries or pores and thus is able to block gas in spite of the thinness of such materials.

Furthermore the terms disposed on deposited on or the like are broadly defined herein to encompass a variety of divergent connected arrangements and assembly techniques. These arrangements and techniques include but are not limited to 1 the direct connection between one component and another component with no intervening components therebetween and 2 the connection of one component and another component with one or more components therebetween. In some instances one component disposed or deposited on the other component is somehow in operative communication with the other component notwithstanding the presence of one or more additional components therebetween .

Each of the memristive devices also referred to herein as a memristor disclosed herein includes two electrodes respectively labeled and in FIGS. and having a single cross point junction labeled J therebetween. It is to be understood that the devices shown in the figures are generally constructed vertically and thus the electrodes are bottom and top electrodes respectively.

As shown at reference numeral of the electrode is disposed on a gas blocking substrate i.e. one or more stiff inorganic solid layers of material . Non limiting examples of such gas blocking substrates include a silicon wafer having a silicon dioxide layer disposed thereon aluminum oxide strontium titanate magnesium oxide gallium nitride aluminum nitride gallium arsenide germanium other non oxide semiconductors or insulators and combinations thereof. A combination of substrates is shown in and includes two or more layers of such substrate materials. This particular substrate is capable of functioning as a suitable gas blocking layer i.e. prohibits gas from escaping from the active region through the bottom of the device . The substrate may also be used to provide mechanical support for the device .

The electrode may be formed of any suitable conductive material e.g. gold platinum tungsten copper titanium nitride tantalum nitride etc. and may have any suitable thickness e.g. ranging from about 5 nm to about 30 nm . The electrode may be fabricated using conventional techniques such as photolithography or electron beam lithography or by more advanced techniques such as imprint lithography.

Since the gas blocking substrate is used in this embodiment graphene or graphite may not be included between the electrode and the active region . As such the material making up the active region may be deposited directly on the surface S of the electrode as shown at reference numeral in .

The active region is made up of an oxide nitride or sulfide having defects e.g. oxygen vacancies nitride vacancies or sulfide vacancies respectively therein. Non limiting examples of such materials include TiOand TiO where 0

Suitable deposition techniques for the oxide nitride or sulfide material include conventional physical and chemical techniques including evaporation from a heated source such as a filament or a Knudsen cell electron beam i.e. e beam evaporation from a crucible sputtering from a target other forms of evaporation chemical vapor deposition CVD molecular beam deposition atomic layer deposition pulse laser deposition or various other forms of chemical vapor or beam growth from reactive precursors. Appropriate deposition or growth conditions such as speed and temperature may be selected to achieve the desirable chemical composition and local atomic structure desired for the material .

The defects may be introduced after the material has been deposited or during deposition of the oxide nitride or sulfide material. In one non limiting example dopant initiators may be diffused from a region or source into the oxide nitride or sulfide material where they react with a portion e.g. a few nanometers or less of the oxide nitride or sulfide material. This chemical reaction forms the defects at the interface between the remaining oxide nitride or sulfide material and the electrode or graphene or graphite depending at least in part from where the dopant initiators are diffused . Non limiting examples of dopants that result from the chemical reaction include interstitials vacancies or other charged impurities. Such mobile dopants are positively or negatively charged. In one non limiting example titanium e.g. a suitable dopant initiator may diffuse through a platinum electrode and react with the active region material e.g. titanium dioxide.

This chemical reaction causes the reduction of a portion of the metal oxide resulting in the formation of a TiOarea at the interface between the remaining titanium dioxide and the platinum electrode e.g. electrode . This TiOarea has a small deficit of oxygen atoms in the crystal structure and the sites where the missing oxygen atoms would be are positively charged vacancies or defects mobile dopants.

In another non limiting example the active region is made up of layers formed with a precise defect concentration so that the entire active region exhibits a desirable defect concentration profile when the device is in an OFF state. An example of the formation of such an active region is described in International Patent Application No. PCT US09 050 433 filed Jul. 13 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In this embodiment the layers of the active region are formed via atomic layer deposition ALD which involves sequential pulsing of different chemical precursor vapors both of which form about one atomic layer per pulse. By varying the temperature continuously from one cycle layer to the next one can achieve a desirable continuous defect gradient throughout the active region .

Using ALD all or a portion of the surface S of the electrode is exposed to the pulse of a metal precursor and then is exposed to the pulse of an oxygen precursor a nitrogen precursor or a sulfur precursor. The metal precursor is selected so that upon reacting with the oxygen nitrogen or sulfur precursor a metal oxide layer a metal nitride layer or a metal sulfide layer having a predetermined defect concentration is formed. In one embodiment the metal precursor is a titanium precursor and has the chemical formula of CHNTi tetrakis diethylamido titanium IV . It is believed that other titanium precursors such as tetrakis dimethylamido titanium IV and titanium IV isopropoxide may also be used. It is to be understood that precursors of nickel gallium zirconium or hafnium or precursors of strontium and titanium may also be used.

After the pulse of metal precursor at least the metal having some dangling groups attached thereto is deposited on the surface S of the electrode . It is to be understood that the oxygen precursor nitrogen precursor or sulfur precursor pulse that is pulsed into the reaction chamber after the metal precursor is selected based upon whether it is desirable to form a metal oxide a metal nitride or a metal sulfide. When a metal oxide layer is to be formed non limiting examples of suitable oxygen precursors include water oxygen plasma or ozone. When a metal nitride layer is to be formed non limiting examples of suitable nitrogen precursors include NHor N H. When a metal sulfide layer is formed one non limiting example of suitable sulfur precursors includes HS N. The oxygen precursor nitride precursor or sulfide precursor reacts with the dangling groups to form the metal oxide metal nitride or the metal sulfide respectively. It is to be understood that one metal precursor pulse and one oxygen nitrogen sulfur precursor pulse makes up a single cycle and forms a single layer of the active region . The pulse combinations may be repeated as many times as is desirable to achieve the desirable thickness of the active region . In one embodiment the thickness ranges from about 2 nm to about 200 nm.

As shown in the active region may be established on a portion of the surface S of electrode . This is accomplished using a selective deposition process. Generally when selective deposition is used to establish the materials on the portion of the electrode surface S the materials are positioned such that they are or will be located in the junction J between the electrodes . It is to be understood however that the materials may also be deposited along the entire surface S see e.g. . In such instances the portion of the materials at the junction J form the active region and the materials positioned adjacent to the junction J remain inactive as no voltage is applied therebetween.

Once the active region is formed graphene or graphite is deposited on at least a portion of the active region that is positioned in the junction J see reference numeral in . The graphene or graphite may be deposited via a growth process or via a transfer nanoimprinting process. A non limiting example of a suitable growth process is epitaxial growth. Such a growth process may be repeated to achieve several monolayers of graphene i.e. graphite . A non limiting example of a suitable transfer printing process is described in Liang et al. Graphene Transistors Fabricated via Transfer Printing in Device Active Areas on Large Wafer 2007. Such a process generally involves pressing a stamp into a graphite substrate. The stamp has protrusion s at least i the size of the active region or other surface to be covered with the graphene or graphite and ii a thickness so that either graphene a monolayer or graphite multiple layers is cut from the graphene substrate. In one example protrusions with a 50 micron thickness transfers graphite of about 4 monolayers. The protrusion s may be coated with a transferring layer e.g. a resin based material which functions to adhere the graphene or graphite during cutting and exfoliating but release the graphene or graphite during printing. The stamp cuts out and attached a piece of graphene or graphite via the protrusion edge and separating the stamp from the graphite substrate exfoliates the cut graphene or graphite. A microscope or other suitable device may be used to inspect the quality of the cut graphene or graphite. When the cut graphene or graphite is of suitable quality e.g. does not have large cluster boundaries or pores the cut portion may then be transferred to printed on the active region . The temperature during printing may be elevated to increase the bonding between the cut graphene or graphite and the active region .

It is to be understood that a fixing layer may be used to adhere the cut graphene or graphite to the active region during printing. The addition of such a layer will depend at least in part upon the material used for the active region . A fixing layer may be desirable when the cut graphene or graphite has a stronger bond with the stamp than with the selected active region material. Such a fixing layer will be selected so that it will form a stronger bond with the cut graphene or graphite than the bond between the graphene or graphite and the stamp. In one non limiting example the fixing layer is formed of silicon dioxide.

Transferring the cut graphene or graphite to the active region may also be accomplished by applying an electrical field between the graphene graphite stamp and the active region when the two are in contact. The electrical static force will help to peel one or a few layers i.e. graphene or graphite from the stamp to transfer such layer s to the active region material.

After the graphene or graphite is in place on the active region the top second electrode is positioned thereon at some desirable angle that is non parallel to the orientation of the bottom first electrode see e.g. reference numeral of . The second electrode may be the same material as or a different material than the first electrode and may be established via the same or a different technique than that used to establish the first electrode . In one example the second electrode is evaporated on the graphene or graphite with an electron beam evaporator. It is to be understood that both the material and the thickness of the electrodes may be varied as is desirable to achieve one or more particular device properties. Although individual electrodes in the figures are shown with square or rectangular cross sections wires may also have circular elliptical or more complex cross sections. The electrodes may also have many different widths or diameters and aspect ratios or eccentricities.

As shown at reference numeral of graphene or graphite is deposited on at least a portion of the electrode . Such selective deposition may be accomplished via the growth or transfer printing process previously discussed. Generally when selective deposition is used to establish the graphene or graphite on the portion of the electrode surface S the graphene or graphite is positioned such that it is or will be located in the junction J between the electrodes . It is to be understood however that the graphene or graphite may also be deposited along the entire surface S see e.g. .

Once the desired graphene or graphite is established on the electrode the active region may be formed via methods and using material previously discussed see reference numeral of . In the embodiments shown in the defects are generally introduced or formed at an interface near the graphene or graphite or at an interface near subsequently disposed graphene or graphite . The other of these interfaces e.g. near the graphene or graphite or near the graphene or graphite remains substantially void of defects. In the final devices upon application of a suitable voltage for ON switching the defects drift towards which ever interface is substantially void of defects thereby creating localized conductance channels across the active region . For OFF switching the opposite voltage polarity is applied and the defects retreat from that interface to switch the device to a high resistance state.

These embodiments of the device also include the graphene or graphite disposed on the formed active region see reference numeral of . This second or additional graphene or graphite may be deposited via methods previously described.

Once the graphene or graphite is established the electrode is positioned thereon at some desirable angle that is non parallel to the orientation of the bottom first electrode see e.g. reference numeral of .

As illustrated in any combination of graphene or graphite between the electrode and the active region and graphene or graphite between the active region and the electrode may be used. For example graphene and may be used at both interfaces see graphite and may be used at both interfaces see or graphene or may be used at one interface while graphite or is used at the other interface see .

Referring now to a crossbar array is depicted including a plurality of the memristive devices two of which are also labeled A and B . It is to be understood that the materials described herein may be used in the memristive devices of the crossbar array . It is to be understood that any of the embodiments of the device and may be included in a crossbar array.

Generally the crossbar is an array of switches wherein each member in one set of parallel electrodes connects to every member of a second set of parallel electrodes that intersects the first set . In many instances the two sets of electrodes are perpendicular to each other. However this is not a necessary condition and the two sets of electrodes may be offset at any non zero angle. It is to be understood that each of the junctions J i.e. cross points in the crossbar includes a respective active region having defects therein.

Each of the active regions is individually addressable after initial fabrication by virtue of the respective electrodes being in selective electrical contact with the respective active region . For example if electrodes and are addressed with an appropriate voltage and polarity memristive device A is activated and switched to either the ON state or the OFF state and if electrodes and are addressed with an appropriate voltage and polarity memristive device B is activated and switched to either the ON state or the OFF state. In the array it is to be understood that when one or more individual devices are addressed the materials e.g. additional active region material positioned adjacent to the junction J i.e. not in the junction J remain inactive as essentially no voltage is applied therebetween e.g. a voltage is not directly applied to such areas however some current may leak into such areas .

For any of the embodiments of the device disclosed herein the lack or substantial void of defects at an interface near one of the electrodes or near the graphene and or graphite generates a tunneling barrier or gap which blocks current flow between the electrodes . This constitutes an OFF state. When in the OFF state one interface in the device contains defects and is an ohmic like contact and the other interface contains no defects and is a non ohmic or Schottky contact. The tunneling barrier limits the electronic transport across the junction J until a voltage that exceeds the threshold field for the drift of the defects is applied to the device . In the OFF state the active region is essentially intrinsic i.e. there are a controlled small number of defects in the lattice. In such instances the interface contact governs the electrical transport of the junction J. In the OFF state a positive voltage may be applied which tends to release gas to the environment. As such during OFF switching the presence of the graphene and or graphite and in some instance the gas blocking substrate reduces the interaction of the active region material with the environment and thus reduces or eliminates the release of gas.

Upon application of a suitable voltage the defects drift towards the non ohmic interface thereby creating localized conductance channels across the active region . This shunts the electronic tunneling barrier at the non ohmic interface and turns the device ON. In the ON state a negative voltage may be applied which tends to absorb gas from the environment. As such during ON switching the presence of the graphene and or graphite and in some instance the gas blocking substrate reduces the interaction of the active region material with the environment and thus reduces or eliminates the absorption of gas.

The opposite electric field pushes the defects back toward the ohmic interface and restores the electronic tunneling barrier at the interface between the active region and one of the electrodes or between the active region and the graphene and or graphite . It is to be understood that the rectification orientation of the device in its initial state determines the switching polarity of the device .

In any of the embodiments disclosed herein it is to be understood that the electrode the active region and the graphene and or graphite layers may be blanket layers with the electrode being configured as a smaller layer which defines the location of the junction J.

It is to be understood that the ranges provided herein include the stated range and any value or sub range within the stated range. For example a length of about 1 nm to about 20 nm should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits of about 1 nm to about 20 nm but also to include individual lengths such as 2 nm 3 nm 4 nm etc. and sub ranges such as 5 nm to 10 nm 12 nm to 15 nm etc.

While several embodiments have been described in detail it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be modified. Therefore the foregoing description is to be considered exemplary rather than limiting.

