---

title: Benzthiazole inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase
abstract: Inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase having a structure of Formula (I), ways to make them and methods of treating patients using them are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08093396&OS=08093396&RS=08093396
owner: Abbott Laboratories
number: 08093396
owner_city: Abbott Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100119
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 145 640 filed Jan. 19 2009.

This invention relates to inhibitors of poly ADP ribose polymerase ways to make them and methods of treating patients using them.

Poly ADP ribose polymerase PARP is essential for facilitating DNA repair controlling RNA transcription mediating cell death and regulating immune response. This activity makes PARP inhibitors targets for a number of disorders. PARP inhibitors have shown utility for treating diseases such as ischemia reperfusion injury inflammatory disease retroviral infections ischemia reperfusion injury myocardial infarction stroke and other neural trauma organ transplantation reperfusion of the eye kidney gut and skeletal muscle arthritis gout inflammatory bowel disease CNS inflammation such as MS and allergic encephalitis sepsis septic shock hemmorhagic shock pulmonary fibrosis and uveitis diabetes and Parkinsons disease liver toxicity following acetominophen overdose cardiac and kidney toxicities from doxorubicin and platinum based antineoplastic agents and skin damage secondary to sulfur mustards. PARP inhibitors have also been shown to potentiate radiation and chemotherapy by increasing cell death of cancer cells limiting tumor growth decreasing metastasis and prolonging the survival of tumor bearing animals. WO 2002 051821 describes compounds having the general structure 

There is therefore a need in the therapeutic arts for PARP inhibitors. Such compounds can be used to treat subjects suffering from cancer and can further expand the range of treatment options available for such subjects.

The present invention has numerous embodiments. One embodiment of this invention therefore pertains to compounds that inhibit the activity of poly ADP ribose polymerase and have Formula I

Another embodiment pertains to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound having the structure of Formula I. This invention also is directed to a use of one or more compounds and or salts of the invention to prepare a medicament.

Another embodiment pertains to methods of treating a condition in a subject by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having the structure of Formula I to the subject.

Another embodiment comprises pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound having Formula I and an excipient.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of inhibiting PARP in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating cancer in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods for decreasing tumor volume in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I

Still another embodiment comprises the use of a compound of Formula I for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of cancer.

Still another embodiment comprises a method of treating leukemia colon cancer glioblastomas lymphomas melanomas carcinomas of the breast carcinomas of the prostate or cervical carcinomas in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises the use of a compound of Formula I for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of leukemia colon cancer glioblastomas lymphomas melanomas carcinomas of the breast carcinomas of the prostate or cervical carcinomas.

Still another embodiment comprises methods for potentiation of cytotoxic cancer therapy in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods for potentiation of radiation therapy in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating ischemia reperfusion injury associated with myocardial infarction stroke neural trauma or organ transplantation in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating reperfusion of the eye kidney gut or skeletal muscle in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating arthritis gout inflammatory bowel disease CNS inflammation multiple sclerosis allergic encephalitis sepsis septic shock hemmorhagic shock pulmonary fibrosis or uveitis in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises a method of treating rheumatoid arthritis or septic shock in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating diabetes or Parkinsons disease in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating hypoglycemia in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating retroviral infection in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating liver toxicity following acetominophen overdose in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises a method of treating cardiac or kidney toxicities from doxorubicin or platinum based antineoplastic agents in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating skin damage secondary to sulfur mustards in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound having formula I.

This detailed description is intended only to acquaint others skilled in the art with Applicants invention its principles and its practical application so that others skilled in the art may adapt and apply the invention in its numerous forms as they may be best suited to the requirements of a particular use. This description and its specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only. This invention therefore is not limited to the embodiments described in this patent application and may be variously modified.

Unless otherwise defined herein scientific and technical terms used in connection with the present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. The meaning and scope of the terms should be clear however in the event of any latent ambiguity definitions provided herein take precedent over any dictionary or extrinsic definition. In this application the use of or means and or unless stated otherwise. Furthermore the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included is not limiting. With reference to the use of the words comprise or comprises or comprising in this patent application including the claims Applicants note that unless the context requires otherwise those words are used on the basis and clear understanding that they are to be interpreted inclusively rather than exclusively and that Applicants intend each of those words to be so interpreted in construing this patent application including the claims below. For a variable that occurs more than one time in any substituent or in the compound of the invention or any other formulae herein its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Combinations of substituents are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. Stable compounds are compounds which can be isolated in a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture.

It is meant to be understood that proper valences are maintained for all combinations herein that monovalent moieties having more than one atom are attached through their left ends and that divalent moieties are drawn from left to right.

As used in the specification and the appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

The term alkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent typically containing from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl iso amyl and hexyl and the like. The term alkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more double bonds and typically from 2 to about 20 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethenyl vinyl 2 propenyl 3 propenyl 1 4 pentadienyl 1 4 butadienyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 butenyl and the like. The term alkynyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more triple bonds and typically from 2 to about 20 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethynyl 2 propynyl 3 propynyl 2 butynyl and 3 butynyl and the like. The term carbocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkyl partially saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. aryl hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms ring atoms are the atoms bound together to form the ring or rings of a cyclic substituent . A carbocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure. A carbocyclyl may be a single ring structure which typically contains from 3 to 7 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of such single ring carbocyclyls include cyclopropyl cyclopropanyl cyclobutyl cyclobutanyl cyclopentyl cyclopentanyl cyclopentenyl cyclopentadienyl cyclohexyl cyclohexanyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl and phenyl. A carbocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic carbocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls. In a spirocyclic carbocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. An example of a spirocyclic carbocyclyl is spiropentanyl. In a bridged carbocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. Examples of bridged carbocyclyls include bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 enyl and adamantanyl. In a fused ring carbocyclyl system two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of two or three fused ring carbocyclyls include naphthalenyl tetrahydronaphthalenyl tetralinyl indenyl indanyl dihydroindenyl anthracenyl phenanthrenyl and decalinyl. The term cycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms. A cycloalkyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 3 to 7 carbon ring atoms and more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. A cycloalkyl may alternatively be polycyclic or contain more than one ring. Examples of polycyclic cycloalkyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls. The term aryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic carbocyclyl containing from 6 to 14 carbon ring atoms. Examples of aryls include phenyl naphthalenyl and indenyl. In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent e.g. alkyl alkenyl alkynyl or cycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix C C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent. Thus for example C C alkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrating further C C cycloalkyl means a saturated hydrocarbyl ring containing from 3 to 6 carbon ring atoms. The term hydrogen alone or in combination with another term s means a hydrogen radical and may be depicted as H. The term hydroxy alone or in combination with another term s means OH. The term carboxy alone or in combination with another term s means C O OH. The term amino alone or in combination with another term s means NH. The term halogen or halo alone or in combination with another term s means a fluorine radical which may be depicted as F chlorine radical which may be depicted as Cl bromine radical which may be depicted as Br or iodine radical which may be depicted as I . A substituent is substitutable if it comprises at least one carbon or nitrogen atom that is bonded to one or more hydrogen atoms. Thus for example hydrogen halogen and cyano do not fall within this definition. In addition a sulfur atom in a heterocyclyl containing such atom is substitutable with one or two oxo substituents. If a substituent is described as being substituted a non hydrogen radical is in the place of hydrogen radical on a carbon or nitrogen of the substituent. Thus for example a substituted alkyl substituent is an alkyl substituent in which at least one non hydrogen radical is in the place of a hydrogen radical on the alkyl substituent. To illustrate monofluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with a fluoro radical and difluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with two fluoro radicals. It should be recognized that if there are more than one substitution on a substituent each non hydrogen radical may be identical or different unless otherwise stated . If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with up to a particular number of non hydrogen radicals that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to that particular number of non hydrogen radicals or by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent whichever is less. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with up to 3 non hydrogen radicals then any heteroaryl with less than 3 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by up to only as many non hydrogen radicals as the heteroaryl has substitutable positions. To illustrate tetrazolyl which has only one substitutable position would be optionally substituted with up to one non hydrogen radical. To illustrate further if an amino nitrogen is described as being optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals then a primary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals whereas a secondary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to only 1 non hydrogen radical. This patent application uses the terms substituent and radical interchangeably. The prefix halo indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more independently selected halogen radicals. For example haloalkyl means an alkyl substituent in which at least one hydrogen radical is replaced with a halogen radical. Examples of haloalkyls include chloromethyl 1 bromoethyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl and 1 1 1 trifluoroethyl. It should be recognized that if a substituent is substituted by more than one halogen radical those halogen radicals may be identical or different unless otherwise stated . The prefix perhalo indicates that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is replaced with independently selected halogen radicals i.e. each hydrogen radical on the substituent is replaced with a halogen radical. If all the halogen radicals are identical the prefix typically will identify the halogen radical. Thus for example the term perfluoro means that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with a fluorine radical. To illustrate the term perfluoroalkyl means an alkyl substituent wherein a fluorine radical is in the place of each hydrogen radical. The term carbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O . The term aminocarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O NH. The term oxy alone or in combination with another term s means an ether substituent and may be depicted as O . The term alkyloxy alone or in combination with another term s means an alkylether substituent i.e. O alkyl. Examples of such a substituent include methoxy O CH ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy iso butoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy. The term alkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl. The term aminoalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl NH. The term alkyloxycarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O O alkyl. The term carbocyclylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O carbocyclyl. Similarly the term heterocyclylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O heterocyclyl. The term carbocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl carbocyclyl. Similarly the term heterocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl heterocyclyl. The term carbocyclyloxycarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O O carbocyclyl. The term carbocyclylalkyloxycarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O O alkyl carbocyclyl. The term thio or thia alone or in combination with another term s means a thiaether substituent i.e. an ether substituent wherein a divalent sulfur atom is in the place of the ether oxygen atom. Such a substituent may be depicted as S . This for example alkyl thio alkyl means alkyl 5 alkyl alkyl sulfanyl alkyl . The term thiol or sulfhydryl alone or in combination with another term s means a sulfhydryl substituent and may be depicted as SH. The term thiocarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means a carbonyl wherein the oxygen atom has been replaced with a sulfur. Such a substituent may be depicted as C S . The term sulfonyl alone or in combination with another term s means S O . The term aminosulfonyl alone or in combination with another term s means S O NH. The term sulfinyl or sulfoxido alone or in combination with another term s means S O . The term heterocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated i.e. heterocycloalkyl partially saturated i.e. heterocycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. heteroaryl ring structure containing a total of 3 to 14 ring atoms. At least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. A heterocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure. A heterocyclyl may be a single ring which typically contains from 3 to 7 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring heterocyclyls include furanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiophenyl thiofuranyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl furazanyl or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxatriazolyl including 1 2 3 4 oxatriazolyl or 1 2 3 5 oxatriazolyl dioxazolyl including 1 2 3 dioxazolyl 1 2 4 dioxazolyl 1 3 2 dioxazolyl or 1 3 4 dioxazolyl oxathiazolyl oxathiolyl oxathiolanyl pyranyl dihydropyranyl thiopyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl pyridinyl azinyl piperidinyl diazinyl including pyridazinyl 1 2 diazinyl pyrimidinyl 1 3 diazinyl or pyrazinyl 1 4 diazinyl piperazinyl triazinyl including 1 3 5 triazinyl 1 2 4 triazinyl and 1 2 3 triazinyl oxazinyl including 1 2 oxazinyl 1 3 oxazinyl or 1 4 oxazinyl oxathiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxathiazinyl 1 2 4 oxathiazinyl 1 2 5 oxathiazinyl or 1 2 6 oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazinyl 1 2 4 oxadiazinyl 1 4 2 oxadiazinyl or 1 3 5 oxadiazinyl morpholinyl azepinyl oxepinyl thiepinyl and diazepinyl. A heterocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic heterocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic heterocyclyls. In a spirocyclic heterocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. In a bridged heterocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. In a fused ring heterocyclyl two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of fused ring heterocyclyls containing two or three rings include indolizinyl pyranopyrrolyl 4H quinolizinyl purinyl naphthyridinyl pyridopyridinyl including pyrido 3 4 b N pyridinyl pyrido 3 2 b N pyridinyl or pyrido 4 3 b N pyridinyl and pteridinyl. Other examples of fused ring heterocyclyls include benzo fused heterocyclyls such as indolyl isoindolyl isobenzazolyl pseudoisoindolyl indoleninyl pseudoindolyl isoindazolyl benzpyrazolyl benzazinyl including quinolinyl 1 benzazinyl or isoquinolinyl 2 benzazinyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzodiazinyl including cinnolinyl 1 2 benzodiazinyl or quinazolinyl 1 3 benzodiazinyl benzopyranyl including chromanyl or isochromanyl benzoxazinyl including 1 3 2 benzoxazinyl 1 4 2 benzoxazinyl 2 3 1 benzoxazinyl or 3 1 4 benzoxazinyl and benzisoxazinyl including 1 2 benzisoxazinyl or 1 4 benzisoxazinyl . The term heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic heterocyclyl containing from 5 to 14 ring atoms. A heteroaryl may be a single ring or 2 or 3 fused rings. Examples of heteroaryl substituents include 6 membered ring substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl and 1 3 5 1 2 4 or 1 2 3 triazinyl 5 membered ring substituents such as imidazyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl 6 5 membered fused ring substituents such as benzothiofuranyl benzisoxazolyl benzoxazolyl purinyl and anthranilyl and 6 6 membered fused rings such as benzopyranyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl cinnolinyl quinazolinyl and benzoxazinyl. A prefix attached to a multi component substituent only applies to the first component. To illustrate the term alkylcycloalkyl contains two components alkyl and cycloalkyl. Thus the C C prefix on C C alkylcycloalkyl means that the alkyl component of the alkylcycloalkyl contains from 1 to 6 carbon atoms the C C prefix does not describe the cycloalkyl component. To illustrate further the prefix halo on haloalkyloxyalkyl indicates that only the alkyloxy component of the alkyloxyalkyl substituent is substituted with one or more halogen radicals. If halogen substitution may alternatively or additionally occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as halogen substituted alkyloxyalkyl rather than haloalkyloxyalkyl. And finally if the halogen substitution may only occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as alkyloxyhaloalkyl. 

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of Formula I

R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen cyano nitro alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkoxy haloalkyl haloalkoxy hydroxyalkyl R O CO O R NRR and C O NRR wherein Rand Rare selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl 

Ris selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocyclyl and aryl wherein a the Ralkyl alkenyl alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R SOR OC O OR SRNRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF b wherein the Rcycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more R 

Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R OS O CF SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCFwherein the Ralkyl alkenyl and alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHRand C O NRR 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aminoalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo and

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo.

In one embodiment of Formula I R Rand Rare selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen and Cto Calkyl. In another embodiment of Formula I R Rand Rare selected from the group consisting of hydrogen fluoro chloro and methyl. In another embodiment of Formula I at least 1 of R Rand Rare hydrogen. In another embodiment of Formula I at least 2 of R Rand Rare hydrogen. In another embodiment each of R Rand Rare hydrogen as described in Formula II 

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of Formula II 

Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R OS O CF SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCFwherein the Ralkyl alkenyl and alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHRand C O NRR 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aminoalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRRis SR S O R SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo and

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo.

In one embodiment of Formula II Ris selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 membered ring heterocyclyl and aryl optionally substituted as described in Formula II. In another embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl 4 5 6 7 or 8 membered ring heterocyclyl and aryl optionally substituted as described in Formula II. In another embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl 4 5 6 or 7 membered ring heterocyclyl and aryl optionally substituted as described in Formula II. In another embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl 5 or 6 membered ring heterocyclyl and aryl optionally substituted as described in Formula II. In another embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of 5 to 6 membered ring heterocyclyl and aryl optionally substituted as described in Formula II. In another embodiment Ris 5 to 6 membered ring heterocyclyl optionally substituted as described in Formula II.

In one embodiment of Formula II Ris selected from the group consisting of alkyl heterocyclyl and aryl wherein a the Ralkyl substituent is optionally substituted with Rand further unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF b wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more R wherein Ris as described in Formula II. In one embodiment of Formula II Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperadinyl and piperazinyl.

In another embodiment Ris aryl optionally substituted as described in Formula II. In another embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and napthyl optionally substituted as described in Formula II. In another embodiment Ris phenyl optionally substituted as described in Formula III 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aminoalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo and

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of Formula III

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aminoalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo and

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo.

In one embodiment of Formula III at least 1 of R R R Rand Rare hydrogen. In another embodiment of Formula III at least 2 of R R Rand Rare hydrogen. In another embodiment of Formula III at least 3 of R R Rand Rare hydrogen. In another embodiment of Formula III R R Rand Rare each hydrogen. In another embodiment of Formula III at least 2 of R R Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R OS O CF SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aminoalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo and

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo.

In another embodiment of Formula III at least 2 of R R Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R OS O CF SOR OC O OR SONRR NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aminoalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo and

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo.

In another embodiment of Formula III at least 2 of R R Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R OS O CF SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF

Ris phenyl or 5 6 or 7 membered heterocyclyl wherein the Rphenyl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl aminoalkyl halogen oxo OR C O R C O OR NRR NRC O R C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRR CF and OCF 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo and

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed in part to a class of compounds having a structure of Formula IV 

Ris aryl or heterocyclyl wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aminoalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo and

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo.

In another embodiment of Formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl alkenyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R C O NRR SR S O R OS O CF SOR CFand OCF wherein the Ralkyl and alkenyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl oxo OR C O R C O ORand NRR 

Ris aryl or 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 membered ring heterocyclyl wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aminoalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo 

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo and

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl halogen cyano and oxo.

In another embodiment of Formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl alkenyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR SR S O R OS O CF SOR OC O OR SONRR N NO CF CFCF OCF and OCFCFwherein the Ralkyl alkenyl and alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHRand C O NRR 

Ris aryl or 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 membered ring heterocyclyl wherein the Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRR NRC O R C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRR CF CFCF and OCF 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl.

In another embodiment of Formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl OR and OS O CF 

In another embodiment of Formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl OR and OS O CF 

Ris selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted aryl and unsubstituted 6 membered ring heterocyclyl 

In another embodiment of Formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl OR and OS O CF 

In another embodiment of Formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl OR and OS O CF 

In another embodiment of Formula IV Ris selected from the group consisting of R alkyl OR and OS O CF 

This invention also is directed in part to all isomers of the compounds of formula I and their salts i.e. structural and stereoisomers . Structural isomers include chain and position isomers. Stereoisomers include E Z isomers i.e. isomers with regard to one or more double bonds enantiomers i.e. stereo isomers that have opposite configurations at all stereogenic centers and diastereoisomers i.e. stereo isomers that have the same configuration at one or more stereogenic centers but differ at other stereogenic centers .

This invention also is directed in part to all salts of the compounds of formula I. A salt of a compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s properties such as for example enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or other solvents. Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being in use in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable and or physiologically compatible. The term pharmaceutically acceptable is used adjectivally in this patent application to mean that the modified noun is appropriate for use as a pharmaceutical product or as a part of a pharmaceutical product. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts commonly used to form alkali metal salts and to form addition salts of free acids or free bases. In general these salts typically may be prepared by conventional means by reacting for example the appropriate acid or base with a compound of the invention.

Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of formula I can be prepared from an inorganic or organic acid. Examples of often suitable inorganic acids include hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic nitric carbonic sulfuric and phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids. Specific examples of often suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilic acid mesylate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sulfanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid beta hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate oxalate palmoate pectinate 2 naphthalesulfonate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate tosylate and undecanoate.

Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts of the compounds of formula I include for example metallic salts and organic salts. Preferred metallic salts include alkali metal group Ia salts alkaline earth metal group IIa salts and other physiologically acceptable metal salts. Such salts may be made from aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc. Preferred organic salts can be made from amines such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups can be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

Compounds of formula I and salts thereof with any level of purity including pure and substantially pure are within the scope of Applicants invention. The term substantially pure in reference to a compound salt isomer means that the preparation composition containing the compound salt isomer contains more than about 85 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 90 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 95 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 97 by weight of the compound salt isomer and preferably more than about 99 by weight of the compound salt isomer.

The starting materials used herein are commercially available or may be prepared by routine methods well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The exemplified compounds were named using ACD ChemSketch Version 5.06 5 Jun. 2001 Advanced Chemistry Development Inc. Toronto Ontario .

To a suspension of 2 bromoaniline 7.3 mL and pyridine 13.5 mL in toluene 110 mL was added 4 methoxybenzoyl chloride 11 mL and the mixture was heated at 40 C. for 2.5 hours. The solid was filtered washed with diethyl ether and water and dried to afford the title compound.

To a solution of EXAMPLE 1A 15 g in toluene 55 mL was added Lawesson s reagent 11.49 g and the mixture heated at reflux for 4 hours. The mixture was cooled and concentrated and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with 1N hydrochloric acid and brine. The organic layers were concentrated and the crude material was triturated with ethyl acetate and filtered to afford title compound.

To a solution of EXAMPLE 1B 7.1 g in ethanol 26 mL was added 30 sodium hydroxide 17.63 mL and the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes. Water 35 mL was added and 4 mL aliquots of the mixture were added at 1 minute intervals to a heated 85 C. solution of potassium ferricyanide III 29 g in water 260 mL . The mixture was maintained at 85 C. for 30 minutes and cooled. The precipitate was collected washed with water and dried to afford the title compound.

To a solution of EXAMPLE 1C 5 g in N N dimethylformamide 1.6 mL was added copper I cyanide 2.1 g and the mixture heated at reflux for 6 hours. The mixture was cooled poured into 1N hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The solid that precipitated out of the organic layer was filtered washed with water and dried to afford the title compound.

A mixture of EXAMPLE 1D 0.8 g in polyphosphoric acid 8 mL was stirred at 100 C. for 3 hours. The mixture was cooled treated with water and extracted with dichloromethane. The solid that precipitated out of the organic layer was filtered washed with water and dried to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d 9.24 s 1H 8.33 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 8.18 8.21 m 1H 8.11 8.14 m 2H 7.94 s 1H 7.56 t J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.15 7.19 m 2H 3.89 s 3H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 1E 0.55 g and a 1M solution of boron tribromide in dichloromethane 25.1 mL were stirred at ambient temperature for 3 hours. The mixture was poured into 1N hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The precipitate that formed in the aqueous phase was filtered to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d 10.35 s 1H 9.27 s 1H 8.30 d J 6.7 Hz 1H 8.17 d J 6.7 Hz 1H 8.00 8.03 m 2H 8.92 s 1H 7.53 t J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.95 6.99 m 2H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 1F 1.19 g in N N dimethylformamide 24 mL was added 60 sodium hydride 0.317 g and N phenyltrifluoromethanesulfonimide 1.89 g . The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 2.5 hours and quenched with water. The precipitate was filtered and dried to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d 9.08 s 1H 8.38 8.44 m 3H 8.23 dd J 7.5 1.6 Hz 1H 7.99 s 1H 7.75 7.78 m 2H 7.64 m 1H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 1G 25 mg dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 4.36 mg phenylboronic acid 8.33 mg 1M sodium carbonate 0.087 mL and 7 2 3 dimethoxyethane ethanol water 1 mL was heated in a microwave at 160 C. for 10 minutes. The mixture was concentrated and diluted with 1 1 dimethylsulfoxide methanol. The solid was filtered dissolved in N N dimethylformamide cooled at 0 C. for 18 hours and filtered to afford the title compound. H NMR DMSO d 9.24 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 8.40 dd J 7.9 1.2 Hz 1H 8.27 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 8.23 dd J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 8.00 s 1H 7.94 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.79 d J 7.0 Hz 2H 7.62 t J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.54 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.46 t J 7.3 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2 substituting pyridin 3 ylboronic acid for phenylboronic acid. Purification by preparative HPLC using a gradient of 10 100 acetonitrile water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid afforded the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR DMSO d 9.21 s 1H 9.1 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 8.72 dd J 4.9 1.5 Hz 1H 8.38 8.42 m 2H 8.33 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 8.23 dd J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 8.04 d J 8.5 2H 8.00 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.71 dd J 7.8 5.0 Hz 1H 7.63 t J 7.8 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 2 substituting pyridin 4 ylboronic acid for phenylboronic acid. The mixture was concentrated and diluted with 1 1 dimethylsulfoxide methanol. The precipitate was collected to afford the title compound. The filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC using a gradient of 10 100 acetonitrile water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid to provide additional title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR DMSO d 9.20 s 1H 8.72 d J 6.1 Hz 2H 8.41 dd J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 8.32 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 8.23 dd J 7.6 1.2 Hz 1H 8.06 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 8.01 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 7.82 d J 6.1 Hz 2H 7.63 t J 7.8 Hz 1H .

A solution of S 1 benzyloxycarbonyl 2 methylpyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 1.50 g in dichloromethane 30 mL was treated with oxalyl chloride 0.65 mL and 3 drops of N N dimethylformamide at ambient temperature for 1.5 hours. The mixture was concentrated and the crude material used in the next step without further purification.

To a solution of EXAMPLE 5A in toluene 20 mL and N N dimethylformamide 10 mL was added 2 bromoaniline 0.891 g and pyridine 1.38 mL and the mixture heated at 40 C. for 4 hours. The mixture was treated with ethyl acetate and brine and the organic layer was washed with 5 aqueous citric acid and aqueous sodium bicarbonate dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to afford the title compound.

To a solution of EXAMPLE 5B 1.25 g in toluene 12 mL was added Lawesson s reagent 1.212 g and the mixture heated at reflux for 5 hours. After cooling the solid was filtered and the filtrate concentrated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and the solution washed with 5 aqueous citric acid and brine. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated and the residue purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using 4 6 to 6 4 dichloromethane hexane to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 5C 0.60 g was treated with ethanol 1.8 mL and stirred with 30 aqueous sodium hydroxide 1.2 mL for 5 minutes followed by the addition of water 2.4 mL . Aliquots 0.5 mL of this mixture were added at 1 minute intervals to a solution of potassium ferricyanide 1.823 g in water 18 mL at 85 C. The mixture was stirred at 85 C. for 40 minutes and cooled. The mixture was treated with 5 aqueous citric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated and the residue purified by flash chromatography using 95 5 dichloromethane ethyl acetate to afford the title compound.

A mixture of EXAMPLE 5D 100 mg and copper I cyanide 35.3 mg in N N dimethylformamide 2.5 mL was heated in a microwave reactor at 205 C. for 30 minutes. This reaction was repeated twice and after cooling the combined three reaction mixtures were treated with 5 aqueous citric acid and brine and extracted with ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer was treated with 5 aqueous potassium sodium tartrate and ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated and the residue purified by flash chromatography using 98 2 dichloromethane ethyl acetate to afford the title compound.

A mixture of EXAMPLE 5E 0.115 g in polyphosphoric acid 1 mL was heated at 100 C. for 3.5 hours. After cooling the residue was treated with water and ethyl acetate. The acidic aqueous layer which contains the product was brought to pH 10 with saturated sodium bicarbonate followed by 20 aqueous sodium hydroxide. The cloudy suspension was partially concentrated and the solid material was filtered and washed with water. The solid was purified by reverse phase HPLC using a gradient of 10 100 acetonitrile water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR DMSO d6 1.87 s 3H 2.07 m 1H 2.22 m 1H 2.35 2.48 m 2H 3.43 3.58 m 2H 7.66 m 1H 7.99 s br 1H 8.25 dd J 7.7 1.2 Hz 1H 8.41 dd J 8.0 1.2 Hz 1H 8.81 s br 1H 9.63 s br 1H 10.02 s br 1H .

This invention also is directed in part to compositions comprising one or more compounds and or salts of the in invention. The compositions can be pharmaceutical compositions. In some embodiments the compositions further comprise one or more additional therapeutic agents. Such therapeutic agents can be additional anti cancer agents.

The preferred composition depends on the method of administration and typically comprises one or more conventional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and or vehicles together referred to as excipients . Formulation of drugs is generally discussed in for example Hoover J. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. 1975 and Ansel s Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug Delivery Systems Lippincott Williams Wilkins 2005 .

Solid dosage forms for oral administration include for example capsules tablets pills powders and granules. In such solid dosage forms the compounds or salts are ordinarily combined with one or more excipients. If administered per os the compounds or salts can be mixed with for example lactose sucrose starch powder cellulose esters of alkanoic acids cellulose alkyl esters talc stearic acid magnesium stearate magnesium oxide sodium and calcium salts of phosphoric and sulfuric acids gelatin acacia gum sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone and or polyvinyl alcohol and then tableted or encapsulated for convenient administration. Such capsules or tablets can contain a controlled release formulation as can be provided in for example a dispersion of the compound or salt in hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms also can comprise buffering agents such as sodium citrate or magnesium or calcium carbonate or bicarbonate. Tablets and pills additionally can be prepared with enteric coatings. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include for example pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions including both oil in water and water in oil emulsions solutions including both aqueous and non aqueous solutions suspensions including both aqueous and non aqueous suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art e.g. water . Such compositions also can comprise for example wetting emulsifying suspending flavoring e.g. sweetening and or perfuming agents. Parenteral administration includes subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion. Injectable preparations e.g. sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions can be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting agents and or suspending agents. Acceptable vehicles and solvents include for example water 1 3 butanediol Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride solution bland fixed oils e.g. synthetic mono or diglycerides fatty acids e.g. oleic acid dimethyl acetamide surfactants e.g. ionic and non ionic detergents and or polyethylene glycols.

Formulations for parenteral administration may for example be prepared from sterile powders or granules having one or more of the excipients mentioned for use in the formulations for oral administration. A compound or salt of the invention can be dissolved in water polyethylene glycol propylene glycol ethanol corn oil cottonseed oil peanut oil sesame oil benzyl alcohol sodium chloride and or various buffers. The pH may be adjusted if necessary with a suitable acid base or buffer.

Suppositories for rectal administration can be prepared by for example mixing a compound or salt of the invention with a suitable nonirritating excipient that is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug. Suitable excipients include for example cocoa butter synthetic mono di or triglycerides fatty acids and or polyethylene glycols.

Topical administration includes the use of transdermal administration such as transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices.

The preferred total daily dose of the compound or salt administered in single or divided doses is typically from about 0.001 to about 100 mg kg more preferably from about 0.001 to about 30 mg kg and even more preferably from about 0.01 to about 10 mg kg i.e. mg of the compound or salt per kg body weight . Dosage unit compositions can contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. In many instances the administration of the compound or salt will be repeated a plurality of times. Multiple doses per day typically may be used to increase the total daily dose if desired.

Factors affecting the preferred dosage regimen include the type age weight sex diet and condition of the patient the severity of the pathological condition the severity of the pathological condition the route of administration pharmacological considerations such as the activity efficacy pharmacokinetic and toxicology profiles of the particular compound or salt used whether a drug delivery system is utilized and whether the compound or salt is administered as part of a drug combination. Thus the dosage regimen actually employed can vary widely and therefore can derive from the preferred dosage regimen set forth above.

This invention also is directed in part to a kit comprising one or more compounds and or salts of the in invention. The kit can optionally contain one or more additional therapeutic agents and or instructions for for example using the kit.

As PARP inhibitors the compounds of this invention have numerous therapeutic applications related to ischemia reperfusion injury inflammatory diseases degenerative diseases protection from adverse effects of cytotoxic compounds and potentiation of cytotoxic cancer therapy. In particular compounds of this invention potentiate radiation and chemotherapy by increasing cell death of cancer cells limiting tumor growth decreasing metastasis and prolonging the survival of tumor bearing mammals. Compounds having formula I can treat leukemia colon cancer lung cancer glioblastomas lymphomas melanomas carcinomas of the breast or prostate and cervical carcinomas. Compounds having formula I are also expected to be useful when used with alkylating agents angiogenesis inhibitors antibodies antimetabolites antimitotics antiproliferatives aurora kinase inhibitors Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors biologic response modifiers cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors cell cycle inhibitors cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors leukemia viral oncogene homolog ErbB2 receptor inhibitors growth factor inhibitors heat shock protein HSP 90 inhibitors histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors hormonal therapies immunologicals intercalating antibiotics kinase inhibitors mammalian target of rapomycin inhibitors mitogen activated extracellular signal regulated kinase inhibitors non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAID s platinum chemotherapeutics polo like kinase inhibitors proteasome inhibitors purine analogs pyrimidine analogs receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors retinoids deltoids plant alkaloids topoisomerase inhibitors and the like.

Alkylating agents include altretamine AMD 473 AP 5280 apaziquone bendamustine brostallicin busulfan carboquone carmustine BCNU chlorambucil Cloretazine VNP 40101M cyclophosphamide decarbazine estramustine fotemustine glufosfamide ifosfamide KW 2170 lomustine CCNU mafosfamide melphalan mitobronitol mitolactol nimustine nitrogen mustard N oxide ranimustine temozolomide thiotepa treosulfan trofosfamide and the like.

Angiogenesis inhibitors include endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase Tie 2 inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitors insulin growth factor 2 receptor IGFR 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 9 MMP 9 inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors thrombospondin analogs vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase VEGFR inhibitors and the like.

CDK inhibitors include AZD 5438 BMI 1040 BMS 032 BMS 387 CVT 2584 flavopyridol GPC 286199 MCS 5A PD0332991 PHA 690509 seliciclib CYC 202 R roscovitine ZK 304709 and the like.

COX 2 inhibitors include ABT 963 ARCOXIA etoricoxib BEXTRA valdecoxib BMS347070 CELEBREX celecoxib COX 189 lumiracoxib CT 3 DERAMAXX deracoxib JTE 522 4 methyl 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl 1H pyrrole MK 663 etoricoxib NS 398 parecoxib RS 57067 SC 58125 SD 8381 SVT 2016 S 2474 T 614 VIOXX rofecoxib and the like.

EGFR inhibitors include ABX EGF anti EGFr immunoliposomes EGF vaccine EMD 7200 ERBITUX cetuximab HR3 IgA antibodies IRESSA gefitinib TARCEVA erlotinib or OSI 774 TP 38 EGFR fusion protein TYKERB lapatinib and the like.

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include CP 724 714 CI 1033 canertinib Herceptin trastuzumab TYKERB lapatinib OMNITARG 2C4 petuzumab TAK 165 GW 572016 ionafarnib GW 282974 EKB 569 PI 166 dHER2 HER2 vaccine APC 8024 HER 2 vaccine anti HER 2neu bispecific antibody B7.her2IgG3 AS HER2 trifunctional bispecfic antibodies mAB AR 209 mAB 2B 1 and the like.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors include depsipeptide LAQ 824 MS 275 trapoxin suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA TSA valproic acid and the like.

HSP 90 inhibitors include 17 AAG nab 17 AAG CNF 101 CNF 1010 CNF 2024 17 DMAG geldanamycin IPI 504 KOS 953 MYCOGRAB NCS 683664 PU24FC1 PU 3 radicicol SNX 2112 STA 9090 VER49009 and the like.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs include AMIGESIC salsalate DOLOBID diflunisal MOTRIN ibuprofen ORUDIS ketoprofen RELAFEN nabumetone FELDENE piroxicam ibuprofin cream ALEVE and NAPROSYN naproxen VOLTAREN diclofenac INDOCIN indomethacin CLINORIL sulindac TOLECTIN tolmetin LODINE etodolac TORADOL ketorolac DAYPRO oxaprozin and the like.

Platinum chemotherapeutics include cisplatin ELOXATIN oxaliplatin eptaplatin lobaplatin nedaplatin PARAPLATIN carboplatin satraplatin and the like.

VEGFR inhibitors include AVASTIN bevacizumab ABT 869 AEE 788 ANGIOZYME axitinib AG 13736 AZD 2171 CP 547 632 IM 862 Macugen pegaptamib NEXAVAR sorafenib BAY43 9006 pazopanib GW 786034 PTK 787 ZK 222584 SUTENT sunitinib SU 11248 VEGF trap vatalanib ZACTIMA vandetanib ZD 6474 and the like.

Antimetabolites include ALIMTA premetrexed disodium LY231514 MTA 5 azacitidine XELODA capecitabine carmofur LEUSTAT cladribine clofarabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate cytosine arabinoside decitabine deferoxamine doxifluridine eflornithine EICAR enocitabine ethnylcytidine fludarabine hydroxyurea 5 fluorouracil 5 FU alone or in combination with leucovorin GEMZAR gemcitabine hydroxyurea ALKERAN melphalan mercaptopurine 6 mercaptopurine riboside methotrexate mycophenolic acid nelarabine nolatrexed ocfosate pelitrexol pentostatin raltitrexed Ribavirin triapine trimetrexate S 1 tiazofurin tegafur TS 1 vidarabine UFT and the like.

Antibiotics include intercalating antibiotics aclarubicin actinomycin D amrubicin annamycin adriamycin BLENOXANE bleomycin daunorubicin CAELYX or MYOCET doxorubicin elsamitrucin epirbucin glarbuicin ZAVEDOS idarubicin mitomycin C nemorubicin neocarzinostatin peplomycin pirarubicin rebeccamycin stimalamer streptozocin VALSTAR valrubicin zinostatin and the like.

Topoisomerase inhibitors include aclarubicin 9 aminocamptothecin amonafide amsacrine becatecarin belotecan BN 80915 CAMPTOSAR irinotecan hydrochloride camptothecin CARDIOXANE dexrazoxine diflomotecan edotecarin ELLENCE or PHARMORUBICIN epirubicin etoposide exatecan 10 hydroxycamptothecin gimatecan lurtotecan mitoxantrone orathecin pirarbucin pixantrone rubitecan sobuzoxane SN 38 tafluposide topotecan and the like.

Antibodies include AVASTIN bevacizumab CD40 specific antibodies chTNT 1 B denosumab ERBITUX cetuximab HUMAX CD4 zanolimumab IGF1R specific antibodies lintuzumab PANOREX edrecolomab RENCAREX WX G250 RITUXAN rituximab ticilimumab trastuzimab and the like.

Hormonal therapies include ARIMIDEX anastrozole AROMASIN exemestane arzoxifene CASODEX bicalutamide CETROTIDE cetrorelix degarelix deslorelin DESOPAN trilostane dexamethasone DROGENIL flutamide EVISTA raloxifene fadrozole FARESTON toremifene FASLODEX fulvestrant FEMARA letrozole formestane glucocorticoids HECTOROL or RENAGEL doxercalciferol lasofoxifene leuprolide acetate MEGACE megesterol MIFEPREX mifepristone NILANDRON nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate PLENAXIS abarelix predisone PROPECIA finasteride rilostane SUPREFACT buserelin TRELSTAR luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH vantas VETORYL trilostane or modrastane ZOLADEX fosrelin goserelin and the like.

Deltoids and retinoids include seocalcitol EB1089 CB1093 lexacalcitrol KH1060 fenretinide PANRETIN aliretinoin ATRAGEN liposomal tretinoin TARGRETIN bexarotene LGD 1550 and the like.

Plant alkaloids include but are not limited to vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine and the like.

Examples of immunologicals include interferons and other immune enhancing agents. Interferons include interferon alpha interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon beta interferon gamma 1a ACTIMMUNE interferon gamma 1b or interferon gamma n1 combinations thereof and the like. Other agents include ALFAFERONE BAM 002 BEROMUN tasonermin BEXXAR tositumomab CamPath alemtuzumab CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 decarbazine denileukin epratuzumab GRANOCYTE lenograstim lentinan leukocyte alpha interferon imiquimod MDX 010 melanoma vaccine mitumomab molgramostim MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogamicin NEUPOGEN filgrastim OncoVAC CL OvaRex oregovomab pemtumomab Y muHMFG1 PROVENGE sargaramostim sizofilan teceleukin TheraCys ubenimex VIRULIZIN Z 100 WF 10 PROLEUKIN aldesleukin ZADAXIN thymalfasin ZENAPAX daclizumab ZEVALIN 90Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and the like.

Biological response modifiers are agents that modify defense mechanisms of living organisms or biological responses such as survival growth or differentiation of tissue cells to direct them to have anti tumor activity and include krestin lentinan sizofuran picibanil PF 3512676 CpG 8954 ubenimex and the like.

Pyrimidine analogs include cytarabine ara C cytosine arabinoside doxifluridine FLUDARA fludarabine 5 FU 5 fluorouracil floxuridine GEMZAR gemcitabine TOMUDEX ratitrexed TROXATYL triacetyluridine troxacitabine and the like.

Antimitotic agents include batabulin epothilone D KOS 862 N 2 4 hydroxyphenyl amino pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide ixabepilone BMS 247550 paclitaxel TAXOTERE docetaxel PNU100940 109881 patupilone XRP 9881 vinflunine ZK EPO and the like.

Compounds of the present invention are also intended to be used as a radiosensitizer that enhances the efficacy of radiotherapy. Examples of radiotherapy include but are not limited to external beam radiotherapy teletherapy brachtherapy and sealed and unsealed source radiotherapy.

Additionally compounds having formula I may be combined with other chemptherapeutic agents such as ABRAXANE ABI 007 ABT 100 farnesyl transferase inhibitor ADVEXIN ALTOCOR or MEVACOR lovastatin AMPLIGEN poly I poly C12U a synthetic RNA APTOSYN exisulind AREDIA pamidronic acid arglabin L asparaginase atamestane 1 methyl 3 17 dione androsta 1 4 diene AVAGE tazarotne AVE 8062 BEC2 mitumomab cachectin or cachexin tumor necrosis factor canvaxin vaccine CeaVac cancer vaccine CELEUK celmoleukin CEPLENE histamine dihydrochloride CERVARIX human papillomavirus vaccine CHOP C CYTOXAN cyclophosphamide H ADRIAMYCIN hydroxydoxorubicin O Vincristine ONCOVIN P prednisone CyPat combrestatin A4P DAB 389 EGF or TransMID 107R diphtheria toxins dacarbazine dactinomycin 5 6 dimethylxanthenone 4 acetic acid DMXAA eniluracil EVIZON squalamine lactate DIMERICINE T4N5 liposome lotion discodermolide DX 8951f exatecan mesylate enzastaurin EP0906 GARDASIL quadrivalent human papillomavirus Types 6 11 16 18 recombinant vaccine gastrimmune genasense GMK ganglioside conjugate vaccine GVAX prostate cancer vaccine halofuginone histerelin hydroxycarbamide ibandronic acid IGN 101 IL 13 PE38 IL 13 PE38QQR cintredekin besudotox IL 13 pseudomonas exotoxin interferon interferon JUNOVAN or MEPACT mifamurtide lonafarnib 5 10 methylenetetrahydrofolate miltefosine hexadecylphosphocholine NEOVASTAT AE 941 NEUTREXIN trimetrexate glucuronate NIPENT pentostatin ONCONASE a ribonuclease enzyme ONCOPHAGE melanoma vaccine treatment OncoVAX IL 2 Vaccine ORATHECIN rubitecan OSIDEM antibody based cell drug OvaRex MAb murine monoclonal antibody paditaxel PANDIMEX aglycone saponins from ginseng comprising 20 S protopanaxadiol aPPD and 20 S protopanaxatriol aPPT panitumumab PANVAC VF investigational cancer vaccine pegaspargase PEG Interferon A phenoxodiol procarbazine rebimastat REMOVAB catumaxomab REVLIMID lenalidomide RSR13 efaproxiral SOMATULINE LA lanreotide SORIATANE acitretin staurosporine talabostat PT100 TARGRETIN bexarotene Taxoprexin DHA paclitaxel TELCYTA TLK286 temilifene TEMODAR temozolomide tesmilifene thalidomide THERATOPE STn KLH thymitaq 2 amino 3 4 dihydro 6 methyl 4 oxo 5 4 pyridylthio quinazoline dihydrochloride TNFerade adenovector DNA carrier containing the gene for tumor necrosis factor TRACLEER or ZAVESCA bosentan tretinoin Retin A tetrandrine TRISENOX arsenic trioxide VIRULIZIN ukrain derivative of alkaloids from the greater celandine plant vitaxin anti alphavbeta3 antibody XCYTRIN motexafin gadolinium XINLAY atrasentan XYOTAX paclitaxel poliglumex YONDELIS trabectedin ZD 6126 ZINECARD dexrazoxane zometa zolendronic acid zorubicin and the like.

In one embodiment compounds having Formula I are used in a method of treating cancer in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound of Formula I in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent selected from temozolomide dacarbazine cyclophosphamide carmustine melphalan lomustine carboplatin cisplatin 5 FU leucovorin gemcitabine methotrexate bleomycin irinotecan camptothecin or topotecan.

It is expected that compounds having Formula I would also inhibit growth of cells derived from a pediatric cancer or neoplasm including embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia pediatric acute myelogenous leukemia pediatric alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma pediatric anaplastic ependymoma pediatric anaplastic large cell lymphoma pediatric anaplastic medulloblastoma pediatric atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor of the central nervous syatem pediatric biphenotypic acute leukemia pediatric Burkitts lymphoma pediatric cancers of Ewing s family of tumors such as primitive neuroectodermal rumors pediatric diffuse anaplastic Wilm s tumor pediatric favorable histology Wilm s tumor pediatric glioblastoma pediatric medulloblastoma pediatric neuroblastoma pediatric neuroblastoma derived myelocytomatosis pediatric pre B cell cancers such as leukemia pediatric psteosarcoma pediatric rhabdoid kidney tumor pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma and pediatric T cell cancers such as lymphoma and skin cancer and the like commonly owned U.S. application Ser. No. 10 988 338 Cancer Res. 2000 60 6101 10 and autoimmune disorders include acquired immunodeficiency disease syndrome autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome hemolytic anemia inflammatory diseases thrombocytopenia and the like Current Allergy and Asthma Reports 2003 3 378 384 Br. J. Haematol. 2000 September 110 3 584 90 Blood 2000 Feb. 15 95 4 1283 92 and New England Journal of Medicine 2004 September 351 14 1409 1418 .

The cellular assay measures the formation of poly ADP ribose by PARP within cells and demonstrates that compounds penetrate cell membranes and inhibit PARP in intact cells. C41 cells are treated with a compound of this invention for 30 minutes in 96 well plate. PARP is then activated by damaging DNA with 1 mM HOfor 10 minutes. The cells are then washed with ice cold PBS once and fixed with pre chilled methanol acetone 7 3 at 20 C. for 10 minutes. After air drying the plates are rehydrated with PBS and blocked 5 non fat dry milk in PBS TWEEN20 Sigma St. Louis Mo. 0.05 blocking solution for 30 minutes at room temperature. The cells are incubated with anti PAR antibody 10H 1 50 in Blocking solution at 37 C. for 60 minutes followed by washing with PBS TWEEN20 5 times and incubation with goat anti mouse fluorescein 5 6 isothiocyanate coupled antibody 1 50 and 1 g ml 4 6 diamidino 2 phenylindole DAPI in blocking solution at 37 C. for 60 minutes. After washing with PBS TWEEN20 5 times the analysis is performed using an FMAX FLUORESCENCE MICROPLATE READER Molecular Devices Sunnyvalle Calif. set at the excitation wavelength of 490 nm and emission wavelength of 528 nm fluorescein 5 6 isothiocyanate FITC or the excitation wavelength of 355 nm and emission wavelength of 460 nm DAPI . The PARP activity FITC signal is normalized with cell numbers DAPI .

