---

title: Dynamic thermoresponsive nanoparticles for stabilization of enzymes at high temperatures
abstract: The present invention provides a thermoresponsive nanoparticle useful for the stabilization of enzymes in environments having a temperature greater than thirty degrees Centigrade. The thermoresponsive nanoparticle has (a) a functionalized enzyme conjugate having one or more enzymes or biological catalysts, the enzymes or biological catalysts are modified with palmitic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester and acrylic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester, and (b) a thermally responsive polymer, wherein the functionalized enzyme conjugate is encapsulated within the thermally responsive polymer. A nanocatalyst is provided that has one or more proteins. The proteins are covalently immobilized and encapsulated within a thermally responsive polymer shell. The proteins are one or more enzymes or biological catalysts. A method for protecting the proteins is also set forth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08460907&OS=08460907&RS=08460907
owner: ICx-Agentase
number: 08460907
owner_city: Pittsburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101111
---
The present utility patent application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 260 892 filed Nov. 13 2009. The entire contents of U.S. provisional Patent Application No. 61 260 892 are incorporated by reference into this utility patent application.

Certain embodiments of this invention was made with Government support under Contract No. HDTRA1 08 1 0054 awarded by United States of America Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a material and a method of encapsulating and covalently immobilizing enzymes within thermally responsive nanoparticles. Three dimensional immobilization of enzymes within nanoparticles that selectively respond to thermal stimuli thermo responsive nanoparticles provides a methodology for protecting enzymes from elevated temperature conditions which might otherwise destroy the enzymes. Native enzymes unfold at elevated temperatures and rapidly lose their catalytic activity. The present invention provides enzymes that are functionalized with hydrophobic and polymerizable chemical groups allowing the enzymes to participate as a comonomer in the enzyme friendly nanoparticle synthesis reaction. The resulting covalent immobilization of the enzyme with the nanoparticle allows the tertiary structure of the enzyme to stay intact due to contraction of the nanoparticle at elevated temperatures. Thus enzyme stability in both the aqueous state and dry state is greatly enhanced at elevated temperatures 30 C. .

Enzymes are biological proteins that speed up chemical reactions by lowering the energy barrier for them to occur more easily. Enzymes demonstrate a high degree of utility due to their speed of reaction specificity for certain analytes and ability to be engineered and chemically modified. Enzymes are used in many industries including food processing detergents and cleaning products clinical diagnostics fuel production and decontamination of chemical agents. The major problem associated with the practical utility of enzymes is the inability to sufficiently stabilize their tertiary structure in harsh environmental conditions such as high temperatures extreme pH high salinity and solvents free enzymes are susceptible to damage and will incur partial or total activity loss in the presence of such conditions. As a result applications of free enzymes for large scale commercial use especially for continuous use are extremely limited. The ability to stabilize enzymes in harsh conditions is an area of immense interest retention of activity in non optimized environments such as elevated temperatures will improve catalytic performance and be beneficial for countless applications.

Various approaches for stabilizing enzymes have been demonstrated from enzyme adsorption and modification to recombinant protein engineering these methods only provide a moderate improvement in enzyme stability. Stability of enzymes adsorbed onto nanoparticles is highly dependant on nanoparticle size and adsorption pattern. Protein and nanoparticle interactions during adsorption can cause conformational changes to an enzyme s native structure rendering it inactive. Entrapment of enzymes has been demonstrated to improve the stability by restricting their ability to unfold. Entrapment of oxidase enzymes within inorganic silica nanogels were shown to improve the stability over the native form by up to 200 fold. To date the optimal method for enhancing the stability of enzymes has been three dimensional covalent immobilization of enzymes. LeJeune and Russell demonstrated that hydrolase enzymes which detoxify chemical warfare agents could be immobilized within polyurethane foams. The surface lysine residues participate in the crosslinking reaction by condensing with the isocyanate groups on the polyurethane backbone resulting in a foam material that contains active enzymes which retain superior stability over the native enzyme see LeJeune K. E. Covalent binding of a nerve agent hydrolyzing enzyme within polyurethane foams Biotechnology and Bioengineering Vol. 51 pages 450 457 1996 and LeJeune K. E. Dramatically stabilized phosphotriesterase polymers for nerve agent degradation Biotechnology and Bioengineering Vol. 54 pages 105 114 1997 . This work has been extended to numerous enzymes which have been utilized to make colorimetric sensor pens that have shelf lives of years and can withstand harsh environmental conditions such as heat and solvents see also U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 291 200 6 673 565 6 762 213 and 6 759 220 .

Recently there has been a large focus on nanoparticle development in many fields including optics and coatings clinical diagnostics drug delivery and also in the development of novel materials such as self healing and highly porous plastics. Stabilization of covalently immobilized enzymes within porous hydrophilic nanogels has been demonstrated by several groups. Polymers which respond to specific stimuli such as temperature and the presence of other molecules in solution are frequently utilized in particle development. Nanoparticles composed of such polymers have the capability to shrink and swell via changes in Gibbs free energy in the presence of the proper stimulus. Responsive nanoparticles are currently used for drug delivery bioimaging and therapeutics. The present invention provides three dimensional immobilization of enzymes at the nanoscale within thermally responsive polymer materials which will protect the enzyme by providing a responsive barrier material that will respond to environmental stimuli to provide structural support under conditions that would otherwise denature the enzyme.

Enzymes have been functionalized and coupled with N isopropylacrylamide NiPAAm with N hydroxysuccinimide NHS Chen G. Preparation and properties of thermoreversible phase separating enzymes oligo N isopropylacrylamide conjugates Bioconjugate Chemistry Vol. 4 pages 509 514 1993 . NiPAAm is a thermo responsive polymer that which undergoes a volume transition at temperatures above its lower critical solution temperature LCST approximately 32 C. Coupling NiPAAm to an enzyme allows it to be used for separation recovery and recycling of an enzyme simply by applying small temperature changes to the reaction medium. The growing NiPAAm enzyme chains have also shown moderate improvements in stability compared to native enzyme. However heretofore no one has cross linked an enzyme or encapsulating an enzyme within thermally responsive thermoresponsive nanoparticles as set forth in the present invention.

Incorporation of functional enzymes into nanoparticles is difficult for several reasons. Bottle in approaches have limited utility because diffusion of enzymes into polymer particles on a short time scale is difficult due to small pore size and high polymer concentration on the outer particle shell. Harsh conditions during nanoparticle fabrication such as solvents surfactants and high temperatures can be detrimental to the tertiary structure of the enzyme. The present invention provides an enzyme friendly methodology for covalently immobilizing and encapsulating enzymes within stimulus responsive nanoparticles using standard oil in water emulsion polymerization protocols such emulsion polymerization protocols are known by those persons skilled in the art. Essentially hydrophobic graft modified enzymes can be used as seeds in micelle systems for growth of nanoparticles. Incorporating functional enzymes into nanoparticles which are constructed from responsive polymers will further stabilize enzymes in harsh environments for example elevated temperature chemicals unfavorable pH physical forces all stressful .

Enzymes modified with NiPAAm polymers have shown an increased thermal stability over native enzymes. Through encapsulating and immobilizing an enzyme within responsive NiPAAm nanoparticles the stability will be greatly improved at elevated temperatures leading to a drastic improvement in both pot life aqueous state and shelf life dry state stability. The contraction of the particles supports the enzyme s tertiary structure leaving the enzyme highly folded and active at elevated temperatures free enzymes which are unencapsulated will unfold at these temperatures and become inactive.

The resulting functionalized enzyme conjugate nanoparticle systems of the present invention have numerous applications. Enzymes generally demonstrate immense utility for a variety of industrial catalysis reactions however the byproducts or intense environmental conditions limit the efficiency of using enzymes. The nanocatalysts and nanoparticles of the present invention stabilize enzymes to survive such intense environmental conditions including such as for example but not limited to temperature extremes. The nanocatalysts and nanoparticles of the present invention have high degree of utility for decontamination chemical remediation drug delivery wound healing protein therapy and a host of other applications.

This invention provides a dynamic thermally responsive thermoresponsive nanoparticle s for stabilization of enzymes and other proteins at elevated temperatures.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a nanocatalyst comprising one or more proteins the proteins are covalently immobilized and encapsulated within a thermally responsive polymer shell. The immobilized and encapsulated protein of the nanocatalyst as described herein is one or more enzymes or biological catalysts. The nanocatalyst includes wherein the covalently immobilized and entrapped enzyme or biological catalyst remains in a folded position and retains its active conformation.

In another embodiment of the nanocatalyst of the present invention the nanocatalyst includes wherein at least one of the proteins are covalently immobilized via at least one of the moieties selected from the group consisting of amines carboxylates or thiols pendant from the protein or via at least one carbohydrate group attached to the protein. The nanocatalyst preferably includes wherein the encapsulated enzyme retains activity ranging from 5 to 100 of the enzyme s native catalytic activity. Another embodiment of the present invention includes the nanocatalyst as described herein wherein the polymer shell comprises one or more fully or partially thermally responsive polymers. The thermally responsive polymer is a polymer selected from the group consisting of a poly N isopropylacrylamide a poly isopropyl N vinylpyrrolidone a polymer which undergoes a conformational change when heated and combinations thereof.

Another embodiment of this invention provides a method for protecting proteins from environmental conditions comprising immobilizing one or more proteins and encapsulating the one or more immobilized proteins within one or more polymeric nanoparticles for protecting the protein from detrimental environmental conditions. The method includes covalently grafting at least one moiety to the enzyme for enabling the enzyme to covalently bind to the polymer. This moiety may be for example but not limited to a vinyl group. Further this method includes subjecting the graft modified enzyme to a polymerization process. The polymerization process is for example but not limited to a free radical addition polymerization process or a living radical polymerization process. The free radical polymerization process is selected from the group consisting of an emulsion polymerization process and a non emulsion polymerization process all of which are known by those skilled in the art. The method as described herein provides that the free radical polymerization process optionally includes at least one thermally responsive comonomer selected from the group consisting of a N isopropylacrylamide poly isopropyl N vinylpyrrolidone a polymer which undergoes a conformational change when heated and combinations thereof.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a nanoparticle comprising a functionalized enzyme conjugate comprising one or more enzymes or biological catalysts and wherein the enzymes or biological catalysts of the functionalized enzyme conjugate are modified with palmitic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester and acrylic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester and a thermally responsive polymer and wherein the functionalized enzyme conjugate is encapsulated within the thermally responsive polymer. The nanoparticle as described herein includes wherein the thermally responsive polymer is one or more selected from the group consisting of a N isopropylacrylamide and a N isopropylacrylamide and polystyrene polymer. Another embodiment of this invention includes wherein the nanoparticle as described herein further includes a cross linking agent and an initiator agent for encapsulating the functionalized enzyme conjugate within the thermoresponsive polymer.

It will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that the present invention provides a material and a method of encapsulating and covalently immobilizing enzymes within thermally responsive nanoparticles. Immobilization of enzymes within nanoparticles that selectively respond to elevated temperatures temperatures above 30 degrees Centigrade otherwise known as thermally responsive nanoparticles provides a methodology for protecting enzymes from harsh environmental conditions which might otherwise destroy the enzymes.

This invention combines the advantages of enzymatic catalysis with the benefits afforded by operating on the nano scale large surface area to volume fast diffusion fast conformational changes and other properties known by those skilled in the art to result in responsive nanoparticles containing enzymatic catalysts that can be protected from elevated temperatures. The ability to maintain or enhance the stability of enzymes at high temperatures has significant application in the fields of industrial catalysis decontamination and field portable diagnostics.

This invention provides a dynamic thermally responsive thermoresponsive nanoparticle s for stabilization of enzymes and other proteins at high temperatures. The terms high temperature and high temperatures as used herein are defined as temperatures that are greater than 30 degrees Centigrade and more preferably temperatures ranging from greater than 30 degrees Centigrade up to 100 degrees Centigrade. The term low temperature and low temperatures as used herein are defined as temperatures ranging from 30 degrees Centigrade and below and more preferably temperatures ranging from 30 degrees Centigrade to zero 0 degrees Centigrade.

The term enzyme and enzymes as used herein refers generally to proteins that catalyze biochemical reactions. Enzymes are proteins that generally enable chemical transformations of organic compounds. Enzymes are powerful catalysts because they are highly specific. The thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention stabilize enzymes and biological catalysts. Preferably the enzymes are selected from the group consisting of lyases hydrolases oxidoreductases transferases isomerases and ligases and combinations thereof. In general six classes or types of enzymes as classified by the type of reaction that is catalyzed are recognized. Enzymes catalyzing reduction oxidation or redox reactions are referred to generally as EC 1 Enzyme Class 1 Oxidoreductases. Enzymes catalyzing the transfer of specific radicals or groups are referred to generally as EC2 Enzyme Class 2 Transferases. Enzymes catalyzing hydrolysis are referred to generally as EC 3 Hydrolases. Enzymes catalyzing removal from or addition to a substrate of specific chemical groups are referred to generally as EC 4 Lyases. Enzymes catalyzing isomerization are referred to generally as EC 5 Isomerases. Enzymes catalyzing combination or binding together of substrate units are referred to generally as EC 6 Ligases. Hydrolase enzymes include but are not limited to a lipase a phosphatase an amylase a cellulase a protease a peptidase a urease or a deaminase. Specific examples of suitable hydrolases include but are not limited to organophosphorus hydrolase OPH organophosphorus acid anhydrolase OPAA urease butyrylcholinesterase or acetylcholinesterase. One or a plurality of enzymes or combinations thereof may be incorporated within the thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention. In a most preferred embodiment of the thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention as described herein one or more purified enzymes are selected from the group consisting of one or more of organophosphorus acid anhydrolase OPAA organophosphorus hydrolase OPH glucose oxidase GOx and acetylcholinesterase AChE .

The term biological catalyst and biological catalysts as used herein refer to a substance that increases the rate of biological processes or reactions and is for example an enzyme. An enzyme is a protein that functions as a biological catalyst. Enzymes catalyse reactions by lowering the activation energy the energy input needed to bring about the reaction.

The term denatured enzyme as used herein refers to an enzyme that can not operate because the shape of its active site is altered thus the substrate can not combine with it change in shape resulting in loss of biological function.

The present invention provides a nanocatalyst comprising one or more proteins the proteins are covalently immobilized and encapsulated within a thermally responsive polymer shell. The polymer shell preferably has a diameter between 5 nanometers and 500 nanometers. The immobilized and encapsulated protein of the nanocatalyst as described herein is one or more enzymes or biological catalysts. The nanocatalyst includes wherein the covalently immobilized and entrapped enzyme or biological catalyst remains in a folded position and retains its active conformation.

The terms protein and proteins as used herein refers to any of a group of complex organic macromolecules that contain carbon hydrogen oxygen nitrogen and usually sulfur and include such as for example but not limited top substances such as enzymes hormones and antibodies. Proteins include addition enzymes such as asparaginase and non catalytic proteins such as erythropoietin. Proteins may be of many types such as for example but not limited to the following 

Hormones are proteins that are responsible for the regulation of many processes in organisms. Hormones are usually quite small and can be classifies as peptides. Most known protein hormones are insulin grows factor lipotropin and prolactin. Many protein hormones are predecessor of peptide hormones such as endorfine and enkephalin.

Transport proteins are proteins that transport or store other chemical compounds and ions such as cytochrome C an electron transport protein haemoglobin and myoglobin oxygen transport proteins and albumin a fatty acid transport protein in the blood stream.

Antibodies are proteins that are involved in the immune response. Sometimes antibodies can act as enzymes. Antibodies can also be classified into a larger groups of proteins called protective proteins such as lymphocyte antigen recognizing receptors antivirals agents such as interferon and tumor necrosis factor. Fibrin and thrombin blood clotting proteins should be classified as protective proteins as well.

Structural proteins are proteins that maintain structures of other biological components like cells and tissues. Collagen elastin keratin sklerotin and fibroin are proteins that are involved in the formation of the whole organism body. Bacterial proteoglycans and virus coating proteins also belongs to this group of proteins.

Motor proteins are proteins that can convert chemical energy into mechanical energy such as actin and myosin which are responsible for muscular motion.

Receptors are proteins that are responsible for signal detection and translation into other type of signal. Sometimes these proteins are active only in complex with low molecular weight compounds. Rhodopsin a light detecting proteins is a well known member of this protein family.

Signalling proteins are proteins that are involved in signaling translation processes. Typically they change conformation significantly in the presence of a signaling molecule. These proteins can sometimes act as enzymes.

Storage proteins are proteins that contain energy which can be released during metabolism processes in an organism. Egg ovalbumin and milk casein are examples of such storage proteins.

Enzyme Factor VIIa is a coagulation protein that may be used for uncontrollable bleeding such as in patients affected with hemophilia or uncontrolled hemorrhage. Each of the herein described examples of proteins may be encapsulated into the thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention.

In another embodiment of the nanocatalyst of the present invention the nanocatalyst includes wherein at least one of the proteins are covalently immobilized via at least one of the moieties selected from the group consisting of amines carboxylates or thiols pendant from the protein or via at least one carbohydrate group attached to the protein. The nanocatalyst preferably includes wherein the encapsulated enzyme retains activity ranging from 5 to 100 of the enzyme s native catalytic activity.

The polymer shell of the nanocatalyst of the present invention as described herein comprises one or more thermoresponsive polymers which undergo a transition from having a hydrophilic character to having a hydrophobic character above a specific lower critical solution temperature. The thermally responsive polymer shell is collapsible as the environmental temperature rises and the enzyme of the functionalized enzyme conjugate seed remains highly folded and in an undenatured state i.e native state . The term highly folded as used herein is a term of art known by those persons skilled in the art and refers to the conformation of proteins for example in the native state having a plurality of folds in their structure.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes a nanocatalyst as described herein wherein the polymer shell comprises one or more fully or partially thermally responsive polymers. The thermally responsive polymer is a polymer selected from the group consisting of a poly N isopropylacrylamide a poly isopropyl N vinylpyrrolidone a polymer which undergoes a conformational change when heated and combinations thereof.

It will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that the nanocatalyst of the present invention provides for an encapsulated protein that has improved stability over a native protein at temperatures greater than 30 degrees Centigrade in both aqueous solutions and dry powders. The nanocatalyst of the present invention has a covalently immobilized protein that is stable at temperatures below 30 degrees Centigrade and is stable ranging from zero 0 degrees Centigrade to 30 degrees Centigrade. Further the nanocatalyst of the present invention having an encapsulated protein is stable at temperatures greater than 30 degrees Centigrade.

Another embodiment of this invention provides a method for protecting proteins from environmental conditions comprising immobilizing one or more proteins and encapsulating the one or more immobilized proteins within one or more polymeric nanoparticles for protecting the protein from detrimental environmental conditions. The method as described herein including wherein the protein is at least one enzyme or at least one biological catalyst. The method provides including covalently grafting at least one moiety to the enzyme for enabling the enzyme to covalently bind to the polymer. This moiety may be such for example but not limited to a vinyl group.

The method as described herein includes subjecting the graft modified enzyme to a polymerization process. The polymerization process is for example but not limited to a free radical addition polymerization process or a living radical polymerization process. The free radical polymerization process is selected from the group consisting of an emulsion polymerization process and a non emulsion polymerization process all of which are known by those skilled in the art. The method as described herein including wherein the free radical polymerization process optionally includes at least one thermally responsive comonomer selected from the group consisting of a N isopropylacrylamide poly isopropyl N vinylpyrrolidone a polymer which undergoes a conformational change when heated and combinations thereof.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a nanoparticle comprising a functionalized enzyme conjugate comprising one or more enzymes or biological catalysts the enzymes or biological catalysts of the functionalized enzyme conjugate are modified with palmitic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester and acrylic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester and a thermally responsive polymer the functionalized enzyme conjugate encapsulated within the thermally responsive polymer. The nanoparticle as described herein includes wherein the thermally responsive polymer is one or more selected from the group consisting of a N isopropylacrylamide and a N isopropylacrylamide and polystyrene polymer. Preferably the enzymes are selected from the group consisting of lyases hydrolases oxidoreductases transferases isomerases and ligases and combinations thereof. More preferably the enzymes are selected from the group consisting of a lipase a phosphatase an amylase a cellulase a protease a peptidase a urease and a deaminase and combinations thereof. Most preferably the enzymes are selected from the group consisting of organophosphorus hydrolase OPH organophosphorus acid anhydrolase OPAA butyrylcholinesterase glucose oxidase GOx acetylcholinesterase AChE dehalogenase DHG diisopropylfluorophosphatase DFPase and Factor VIIa. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the nanoparticle of the present invention provides wherein the enzymes are incapable of unfolding under stressful environmental conditions such as for example but not limited to a temperature greater than 30 degrees Centigrade. Another embodiment of this invention includes wherein the nanoparticle as described herein further includes a cross linking agent and an initiator agent for encapsulating the functionalized enzyme conjugate within the thermoresponsive polymer.

The application of enzymes is limited due to their poor stability in the presence of elevated temperatures. Known encapsulation techniques to date have focused on providing shells that essentially prevent limit diffusion or prevent uptake of water. Silica encapsulation has worked well for shelf life stability however this technique alone is insufficient for providing operational stability to enzymes. Static shells are unable to dynamically change volume or porosity to limit diffusion and provide a support network for the enzyme. In contrast the present invention describes a 2 step modification method that has been developed for functionalizing enzymes with vinyl moieties and hydrophobic groups that enable the functionalized enzymes to be encapsulated under a variety of different conditions as set forth herein. Enzymes such as but not limited to organophosphorus hydrolase OPH glucose oxidase GOx and acetylcholinesterase AChE were modified with polymerizable and hydrophobic chemical groups. Functionalization of enzymes achieves two goals it increases surface hydrophobicity which enables the enzyme to enter the interior of the aqueous micelle prior to nanoparticle synthesis and provides vinyl functionality that can be used to covalently anchor the enzyme 3 dimensionally within the growing polymer via free radical polymerization. The covalent attachments result in enhanced stability of the enzymes at elevated temperatures. After the enzyme is modified to produce a functionalized enzyme conjugate seed the method of the present invention further comprises employing an enzyme friendly nanoparticle fabrication to produce the thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention.

In the method of the present invention functionalized enzyme conjugates seeds are dispersed in a solution which may or may not contain a surfactant at ambient or slightly above ambient temperatures. Comonomers styrene and N isopropylacrylamide NiPAAm were added to the reaction with a cross linker N N Methylenebisacrylamide. NiPAAm is a thermo responsive polymer which undergoes a volume transition at temperatures above its lower critical solution temperature LCST approximately 32 C. After the monomer mixture was equilibrated a water soluble initiator initiation agent potassium persulfate was added to initiate the polymerization. At this time the temperature was increased from 25 C. to 40 C. the increase in temperature took approximately 10 minutes. Growing NiPAAm chains undergo a transition from being highly hydrophilic and swollen at 

The results of these processes are typically nanoparticles having a diameter in the size regime of 50 300 nm with low polydispersity. Thus this invention provides thermally responsive nanoparticles that contain covalently immobilized enzyme that remains active. The resulting encapsulated enzymes display an increase in both pot life and shelf life stability at elevated temperatures greater than 30 degrees Centigrade .

Thermal stability studies in aqueous conditions were conducted at temperatures up to 70 C. Catalytic activity of encapsulated enzyme is higher relative to that of native or functionalized enzyme at elevated temperatures typically resulting in a 2 15 fold improvement in enzyme pot life. Lyophilization of these novel materials extends their shelf life dry storage conditions over that of native enzyme. After 3 weeks of dry storage at 70 C. native enzyme loses all activity whereas encapsulated enzyme retains approximately 40 activity after 25 weeks at 70 C. Encapsulation of enzymes extends shelf life from 3 weeks to over 6 months.

Enzymes encapsulated into non responsive particles were additionally created showing no response to changes in temperature. These particles were thoroughly studied alongside native enzyme and enzymes encapsulated into thermally responsive nanoparticles for elevated aqueous stability at temperatures up to 70 C. While enzymes encapsulated into non responsive particles increase pot life over native enzymes at elevated temperatures the increase in stability is only moderate when compared to the increased stability obtained by encapsulation within thermally responsive nanoparticles.

Additional studies have been performed using denaturants to illustrate that the enzyme is indeed immobilized within the nanoparticle. Unencapsulated enzymes and enzymes adsorbed unto a nanoparticle surface rapidly lost activity in the presence of a detergent whereas enzymes encapsulated into the thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention slowly decreased enzymatic activity over a longer time course indicating the enzymes are 3 dimensionally covalently immobilized within the nanoparticles.

The present invention provides functionalized enzyme conjugates that have enzymes that retain catalytic activity within NiPAAm nanoparticles. The enzyme is structurally supported via covalent immobilization and is further structurally supported at elevated temperatures by the collapsing NiPAAm network. The ability to maintain or enhance the stability of enzymes at high temperatures has significant application in the fields of industrial catalysis decontamination and field portable diagnostics. is a representation of an enzyme encapsulated within thermo responsive N isopropylacrylamide NiPAAm Polystyrene particles. NiPAAm undergoes a volume transition at temperatures above its lower critical solution temperature LCST approximately 32 C. At temperatures 

Temperature responsive polymers or otherwise known as thermally responsive polymers undergo a phase transition behavior at temperatures above and below a specific value known as the lower critical solution temperature LCST . At temperatures above the LCST the hydrophobic bonds within and between the molecules strengthen and the polymer chains aggregate the polymer becomes more hydrophobic . Conversely at temperatures lower than the LCST the polymer chains bind to water molecules and become hydrated the polymer is hydrophillic . This phase transition phenomenon is reversible. Thermally responsive polymers as used herein include such as for example but not limited to N isopropylacrylamide NiPAAm and poly N isopropylacrylamide and are the most studied thermally responsive thermo responsive polymers and are utilized in this invention to fabricate the thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention. Additionally it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other thermally responsive polymers can be employed in the methods and nanoparticles of the present invention such as but not limited to N acryloypyrrolidine N acryloyl piperidine N vinylisobutyramide MA PIPA methylenebisacrylamide N isopropylmethacrylamide and N diethylacrylamide to name a few as well as polymers synthesized to exhibit thermoresponsive behavior such as for example but not limited to N substituted poly meth acrylamide s poly N vinylamide s poly oxazoline s protein related polymers poly ether s polymers based on amphiphilic balance and elastin like synthetic polymers. Additionally thermoresponsive polymers based on alkyl modified poly vinylpyrrolidone PVP can be employed in the present invention to produce thermo responsive nanoparticle such as for example but not limited to poly 3 ethyl 1 vinyl 2 pyrrolidone C2 PVP and poly 3 butyl 1 vinyl 2 pyrrolidone C4 PVP . These polymers exhibit very sensitive reversible temperature dependant water solubility and the LCST can be tuned by modification of the alkyl group.

With regard to the cross linking agents employed in the method of the present invention chemical covalent cross links are stable mechanically and thermally so once formed are difficult to break N N methylenebisacrylamide was used in the present invention as a cross linking agent cross linker . Additional cross linkers such as those commonly utilized in gel electrophoresis can be substituted into the method for enzyme friendly nanoparticle fabrication such as for example but not limited to 1 4 Bis acryloyl piperazine N N Bis acryloyl cystamine used as a reversible cross linker for polyacrylamide gels the disulfide linkage can be broken with a suitable reducing agent polyethylene glycol diacrylate N N diallyltartardiamide and bisacrylyl piperazine as well as additional crosslinkers but not limited to 2 Isocyanatoethyl methacrylate a crosslinker typically utilized for resins or coatings.

With regard to comonomers employed concerning the thermally responsive polymer styrene is a comonomer used in the present invention to enhance the hydrophobic interaction of the thermo responsive polymer basically making the nanoparticles like to shrink more. Addition monomers can be substituted for styrene in the method for the enzyme friendly nanoparticle synthesis of the present invention such as for example but not limited to Butyl methacrylate 1 3 Butadiene Poly styrene co 4 vinylpyridine Benzocyclobutene poly butyl acrylate styrene .

With regard to the hydrophobic chemical group of the present invention palmitic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester paNHS is employed in several of the examples herein. Palmitic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester can be substituted with any N hydroxysuccinimide NHS ester that contains a vinyl group. It will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that the hydrophobic chemical group may be any acid that contains a vinyl group and ester such as but not limited to 10 Undecenoic acid but no NHS group can be coupled with 1 Ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC a water soluble carbodiimide for rapid preparation of peptide conjugates that makes a 1 step amide crosslink between carboxylates and amines. Once the acid has been coupled with EDC it can be used in the first step of the modification procedure to modify the enzyme or protein of choice.

With regard to the polymerizable chemical group of the present invention acrylic acid N hydroxysuccinimide aaNHS is employed in several of the examples herein. It will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that any vinyl ester NHS can be substituted for acrylic acid NHS. Further any vinyl ester that has been coupled with EDC can be used as the 2modifier in the present inventions 2 step modification process of the present invention as described herein.

With regard to the initiators of the polymerization reaction an initiator is used in the present invention to assist in the polymerization process during nanoparticle synthesis. Potassium persulfate is described as the initiator used in this method for enzyme friendly nanoparticle synthesis however additional initiators can be substituted in the reaction such as for example but not limited to ammonium persulfate azo compounds such as but not limited to 2 2 Azobis 2 2 imidazolin 2 yl propane dihydrochloride 2 2 Azobis 2 methylpropionamidine dihydrochloride 2 2 Azobis 2 methyl N 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide organic peroxides and halogen molecules to name a few.

Organophosphorus hydrolase OPH EC 3.1.8.1 Lybradyn Inc Oak Brook Ill. hydrolyzes organophosphorus nerve agents and pesticides it is used as a decontamination enzyme for remediation of organophosphorus nerve agents. OPH from is 37.2 kD protein that contains 8 lysine residues. The ability to stabilize OPH at elevated temperatures could be useful for many areas including but not limited to chemical remediation detection and decontamination. Organophosphorus hydrolase was functionalized with hydrophobic chemical groups for example but not limited to palmitic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester and polymerizable chemical groups for example but not limited to acrylic acid N hydroxysuccinimide and encapsulated within N isopropylacrylamide NiPAAm Polystyrene particles using emulsion polymerization. Emulsion polymerization is a process known by those persons skilled in the art. N isopropylacrylamide is a thermally responsive polymer which undergoes a volume transition at temperatures above its lower critical solution temperature LCST which is approximately 32 C. At temperatures less than 32 degrees Centigrade 

Palmitic acid N hydroxysuccinimide paNHS ester Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. was used to first modify OPH. Forty Four micrograms of paNHS was added for every 2 mg of OPH in an aqueous buffered system 10 mM Borate pH 8.0 5 mM CaCland 150 mM NaCl . Sodium deoxycholate was also added to the reaction at 0.35 w v which is above its critical micelle concentration CMC of 0.2 . The reaction was stirred and incubated at room temperature approximately 23 C. overnight. Excess paNHS and sodium deoxycholate were removed by placing the sample in a 10 000 molecular weight cut off MWCO Amicon centrifugation filter unit and centrifuging at 3200 rpm for 15 minutes Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. .

The OPH palmitic acid OPH pa conjugate enzyme conjugate was then further modified with acrylic acid N hydroxysuccinimide aaNHS Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. in the second step of the modification procedure to produce a functionalized OPH conjugate functionalized enzyme conjugate seed . Acrylic acid NHS was added to OPH pa at a 1 1 molar ratio of aaNHS to lysine residues in a buffer solution 10 mM Borate pH 8.0 5 mM CaCl . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours before removing unreacted aaNHS using centrifugation filter units that contained a 10 k MWCO membrane.

The functionalized OPH conjugates were analyzed after each modification step to determine the rate of modification. The number of grafts were assessed by a standard fluorescent assay using fluorescamine to determine the concentration of free amines. Fluorescamine a non fluorescent compound reacts with free amine groups in solution to produce a strong fluorophore at 475 nm. Extent of modification is determined by comparing fluorescence intensity of unmodified enzyme to the intensity of the functionalized enzyme. Fluorescamine reactions were performed at room temperature in a 1.5 mL cuvette using a fluorescent spectrophotometer. Fluorescamine along with the modified enzyme sample was added to buffered media 50 mM Borate pH 8 and analyzed for fluorescence intensity. Enzymes were also assayed post modification to determine the amount of remaining catalytic activity.

Catalytic activity was measured throughout the modification and nanoparticle fabrication process to ensure that no step caused a significant loss in activity. shows the standard assay for OPH. Organophosphorus hydrolase was assayed in a 96 well micro plate using a buffered medium 10 mM NaPO4 pH 7.0 supplemented with the pesticide paraoxon 5 mM . OPH catalyzes the hydrolysis of paraoxon. OPH activity was assayed at room temperature by determining the increase of p nitrophenol concentration in the presence of excess paraoxon. For each mole of paraoxon degraded a mole of p nitrophenol and a mole of phosphoric acid are produced. The rate of the reaction is directly proportional to the production of p nitrophenol measured at 405 nm.

An enzyme friendly fabrication procedure was developed in order to minimize the loss of catalytic activity during the synthesis reaction. At slightly above ambient temperature conditions nanoparticles containing functionalized OPH conjugates seeds were prepared via standard oil in water emulsion polymerization protocols known by those persons skilled in the art. The seed particle in this case the enzyme pa acrylic acid graft was added to a stirred aqueous solution that contained an anionic surfactant sodium dihexyl sulfosuccinate MA 80 . MA 80 was added drop wise to deionized water dHO at 3.5 v v which is above its CMC of approximately 1.2 to 1.6 v v . Five hundred milligrams of OPH pa acrylic acid was added for a final concentration of 5 mg mL OPH pa acrylic acid. The functionalized enzyme conjugate was added drop wise to the reactor and equilibrated for 10 minutes before the monomer mixture was added. The surfactant MA 80 forms a micellar domain after modification the enzyme pa acrylic acid conjugate is cloudy and slightly viscous but goes clear when added to MA 80 in water. Comonomers styrene 0.06 w v and N isopropylacrylamide NiPAAm 0.4 w v were added to the reaction with a cross linker N N Methylenebisacrylamide 0.053 w v drop wise to the reactor and allowed to equilibrate for 10 minutes. A water soluble initiator potassium persulfate KPS 0.16 w v was added to initiate the polymerization. At this time the temperature of the reaction was increased from 25 C. to 40 C. over a period of approximately 10 minutes.

Dynamic light scattering DLS was used to determine the size distribution of nanoparticles in solution. A Malvern Zetasizer Nano ZS was used to determine OPH encapsulated nanoparticle size at various temperatures. The nanoparticles were diluted in filtered deionized water to a final concentration of 0.25 v v before nanoparticle diameter measurements were taken shows the DLS size readings that were taken at one degree increments between 20 C. and 60 C. The diameter of the nanoparticles shrunk by approximately 50 when the temperature increases above NiPAAm s LCST from approximately 85 nanometers nm at ambient temperatures to 42 nm at elevated temperatures.

Thermal cycling was used to determine how the physical characteristics of NiPAAm respond to repeated changes in temperature from ambient to elevated temperatures. As well as how the repeated contraction and swelling of the particle affect catalytic activity of OPH encapsulated within thermally responsive nanoparticles.

Organophosphorus hydrolase encapsulated NiPAAm Polystyrene nanoparticles were thermally cycled in the Malvern Nano ZS. Nanoparticle size was measured every 5 degrees of temperature from 25 C. to 60 C. as shown in . The starting temperature of the cycles was alternated from 60 C. to 25 C. and then 25 C. to 60 C. for 6 cycles. A indicates that there is no significant hysteresis effect on the nanoparticles size after 6 cycles. Nanoparticle diameter is consistent at each temperature from cycle to cycle. The nanoparticles alongside native and functionalized OPH with and without non enzyme containing nanoparticles were incubated in an Eppendorf mastercycler gradient thermal cycler. Non enzyme containing particles were used as a control to establish that neither the presence of thermo responsive nanoparticle nor enzyme adsorption onto the surface of the nanoparticle were responsible for artificially increasing enzymatic stability. Non enzyme containing nanoparticles were fabricated as previously described following a similar synthesis protocol. Thermal cycles were set to mimic the DLS thermal stress study and after each thermal cycle aliquots from each sample were removed and assayed for enzymatic activity. shows that the encapsulated OPH nanoparticles of the present invention retains 60 activity after undergoing repeated thermal stress while native and functionalized OPH retain 20 and 30 activity respectively. After thermal cycling between ambient and elevated temperatures encapsulated OPH nanoparticles of the present invention retains 2 3 fold more activity than functionalized or native OPH respectively. Further stability tests were performed to determine the effect encapsulation has on pot life aqueous stability at elevated temperatures.

Aqueous solutions containing native OPH functionalized OPH as well as nanoparticle encapsulated OPH were incubated at various temperatures and assayed to determine their thermal half life. Native and functionalized enzymes were added to nanoparticles containing no enzyme after particle synthesis to demonstrate that the adsorption of the enzyme or the presence of nanoparticles was not the cause of stability but rather the encapsulation of the present method that increases thermal half life. OPH samples containing 5 mg mL enzyme and 1 mL nanoparticles or dHO were incubated at elevated temperatures and were assayed over the course of 24 hours to determine when each enzyme would reach its half life of thermal inactivation.

Prior to incubation at elevated temperatures the catalytic activity was assayed half life of thermal inactivation is established when the samples lose 50 of their original activity. shows the thermal half life of inactivation in hours of OPH encapsulated nanoparticles. Through encapsulation into thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention OPH samples increase their half life 10 fold at 50 C. a 6.67 fold increase in half life is observed at 60 C. and the half life of thermal inactivation is increased 2.67 times at 70 C. In all cases enzymes encapsulated in NiPAAm nanoparticles of the present invention retain a significantly higher degree of catalytic activity at elevated temperatures and have drastically longer half lives. Contraction of particles at elevated temperatures increases thermal pot life aqueous stability.

In addition to showing prolonged stability at elevated temperatures over native functionalized and adsorbed OPH a method was utilized to confirm that OPH is indeed encapsulated into thermally responsive nanoparticles. A straightforward method for probing enzyme encapsulation within NiPAAm Polystyrene nanoparticles was established using sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS . SDS dissociates a protein s secondary structure unfolding the enzyme and rendering it inactive. This process is further assisted by incubating the enzyme and SDS at an elevated temperature a common method used in gel electrophoresis for separating proteins according to their size and charge using a hydrogel. OPH and functionalized OPH in the presence and absence of nanoparticles alongside NiPAAm encapsulated OPH were incubated in 2.5 w v SDS at 60 C. The enzymes were periodically assayed to determine inactivation by SDS as set forth in . Unencapsulated enzymes free or adsorbed lose over 80 activity by 15 minutes and show a complete loss of activity by 1 hour. OPH that has been encapsulated within thermo responsive particles of the present invention maintains catalytic activity up to 4 hours the gradual loss of activity over the 4 hours may be caused by SDS diffusion into the NiPAAm Polystyrene particles. We hypothesize that the gradual loss of activity by the OPH nanoparticles indicates that the enzyme is covalently immobilized within the interior of the particles.

In addition to encapsulating functionalized OPH into thermally responsive nanoparticles OPH was encapsulated into a non responsive nanoparticle. shows both free and encapsulated enzyme within a nonthermally responsive nanoparticle at ambient and elevated temperatures. Thermally responsive nanoparticles as shown in will collapse and protect the enzyme s tertiary structure while a non responsive nanoparticle only provides a moderate improvement in stability at elevated temperatures.

Non responsive nanoparticles were created in a similar fashion to stimuli responsive nanoparticles. At ambient conditions nanoparticles containing functionalized OPH seeds were prepared via standard oil in water emulsion polymerization protocols. Oil in water emulsion polymerization is known by those persons skilled in the art. MA 80 was added drop wise to deionized water dHO at 3.5 v v which is above its CMC of approximately 1.2 to 1.6 v v . Five hundred milligrams of OPH pa acrylic acid was added for a final concentration of 5 mg mL OPH pa acrylic acid. Comonomers styrene 0.06 w v and polyacrylamide 0.4 w v were added to the reaction with a cross linker N N Methylenebisacrylamide 0.04 w v drop wise to the reactor and allowed to equilibrate for 10 minutes. An initiator KPS 0.16 w v was added to initiate the polymerization. A polymerization catalyst TEMED 0.01 w v is added to continue the free radical polymerization reaction at ambient conditions. The reaction is allowed to proceed for one hour after the addition of TEMED. After synthesis samples were purified by equilibrium dialysis and centrifugation to remove unreacted monomer. After clean up the thermally responsive OPH encapsulated nanoparticles OPH NiPAAm of the present invention and the non responsive OPH encapsulated nanoparticles OPH Acrylamide were tested for volume response to temperature assayed for enzymatic activity and thoroughly studied for elevated temperature stability.

Dynamic light scattering DLS was utilized to determine the size distribution and temperature responsiveness of both responsive and non responsive OPH encapsulated nanoparticles. shows the size change of both thermo responsive and non stimuli responsive nanoparticles. N isopropylacrylamide NiPAAm a thermo responsive polymer was used to create nanoparticles that shrink at elevated temperatures on the other hand acrylamide was used to create nanoparticles that do not respond to temperature. OPH NiPAAm nanoparticle s diameters shrink at temperatures above 35 C. by approximately 50 150 nanometers nm diameter to 70 nm diameter. Whereas OPH Acrylamide nanoparticle s diameters do not exhibit swelling or shrinking from 25 C. to 60 C. Unlike NiPAAm nanoparticles acrylamide nanoparticles do not respond to elevated temperatures.

Native OPH OPH Acrylamide and OPH NiPAAm samples were examined for aqueous pot life stability at elevated temperatures. The samples were incubated at 50 C. 60 C. and 70 C. and periodically assayed for OPH catalytic activity. depicts the half life of thermal inactivation for OPH OPH Acrylamide and OPH NiPAAm samples The half life of thermal inactivation is noted in hours. Pot life of OPH is enhanced through encapsulation into thermo responsive nanoparticles by 3 fold at 50 C. 2.5 fold at 60 C. and 1.6 fold at 70 C. over OPH Acrylamide nanoparticles. The contraction of the NiPAAm nanoparticles provides steric support and prevents enzyme denaturation at elevated temperatures catalytic activity is greatly enhanced by encapsulation within thermoresponsive nanoparticles.

Sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS was incubated with OPH OPH Acrylamide and OPH NiPAAm particles at 2.5 v v SDS at 60 C. for the course of 4 hours. SDS was utilized to denature the enzyme s secondary structure and further illustrate the enhancement of stability that is established when a thermo responsive nanoparticle is utilized. As shown in unencapsulated OPH loses all of its activity by 0.5 hours OPH Acrylamide loses all of its activity by 2 hours whereas OPH NiPAAm encapsulated nanoparticles of the present invention retains activity until after 4 hours of incubation with SDS at 60 C. further supporting the enhancement of enzymatic stability when encapsulated within a thermo responsive nanoparticle.

In addition to encapsulating a hydrolase enzyme OPH we have the ability to encapsulate a functional oxidase enzyme Glucose oxidase GOx EC 1.1.3.4 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. which converts glucose into D gluconic acid and peroxide as shown in . The reaction is coupled with peroxidase which in conjunction with an oxidoreductase dye converts peroxide and dye into a colored product. GOx from is a dimer consisting of two 80 kD subunits and 30 lysines. GOx was functionalized with hydrophobic chemical groups for example but not limited to palmitic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester and polymerizable chemical groups such as for example but not limited to acrylic acid N hydroxysuccinimide as shown in and the functionalized enzyme conjugates used as seeds for encapsulation within N isopropylacrylamide NiPAAm Polystyrene particles using emulsion polymerization. Emulsion polymerization is a process known by those persons skilled in the art. The ability to stabilize GOx and other oxidase enzymes is useful for many industries such as but not limited drug delivery and wound healing.

Functionalized GOx was analyzed after modification with palmitic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester paNHS and acrylic acid N hydroxysuccinimide aaNHS to determine the degree of modification that occurred. The rate of modification was determined by utilizing a fluorescent assay that detects the number of free amines. Fluorescamine a non fluorescent compound reacts with free amine groups in solution to produce a fluorophore at 475 nm. The rate of modification is determined by comparing the intensity of native GOx to functionalized GOx.

Catalytic activity of GOx was measured after each modification step and throughout the nanoparticle fabrication process to ensure that no step caused a considerable loss in activity. Glucose oxidase activity is assayed at room temperature using a colorimetric assay coupled with horseradish peroxidase HRP in a buffered medium 100 mM KPO pH 5 . GOx converts glucose to D Glucono lactone and HO. In the presence of HO HRP oxidizes 2 2 Azino bis 3 Ethylbenzthiazoline 6 Sulfonic Acid ABTS to water and oxidized ABTS which is measured spectrophotometrically at 405 nm.

Thermally responsive thermoresponsive nanoparticles were created using functionalized GOx as seeds the functionalization allows the GOx to be used a co monomer during the fabrication process via standard oil in water emulsion polymerization protocols. The seed particle GOx pa acrylic acid was added to a stirred aqueous solution under nitrogen that contained an anionic surfactant MA 80. MA 80 was added drop wise at 3.5 v v . The concentration of enzyme added to the reactor was dependant upon the amount required for activity assays. Fifty milligrams of GOx pa acrylic acid was added to the 100 mL round bottom reactor for a final concentration of 0.5 mg mL GOx pa acrylic acid. The functionalized enzyme was added drop wise to the reactor and equilibrated for 10 minutes. Comonomers styrene 0.06 w v and NiPAAm 0.4 w v were added to the reaction with a cross linker N N Methylenebisacrylamide 0.053 w v drop wise to the reactor and allowed to equilibrate for 10 minutes. A water soluble initiator KPS 0.16 w v was added to initiate the polymerization. At this time the temperature of the reaction was increased from 25 C. to 40 C. over a period of approximately 10 minutes. Once the reaction reached 40 C. the heat was removed and the stirred reactor was placed in an ice bath. A polymerization catalyst TEMED 0.01 w v was added to continue the free radical polymerization reaction while incubated on ice. The reaction was allowed to proceed for one hour after the addition of TEMED. After one hour stirring is stopped and the round bottom flask is removed from the ice bath. After synthesis samples were purified by equilibrium dialysis and centrifugation to remove unreacted monomer. After clean up the nanoparticles were tested for volume response to temperature assayed for enzymatic activity and thoroughly studied for elevated temperature stability in both the aqueous state pot life and dry state shelf life .

Dynamic light scattering DLS was used to determine the diameter size and particle distribution of GOx encapsulated nanoparticles in solution. The nanoparticles were diluted in filtered deionized water to a final concentration of 0.25 v v before measurements were taken. depicts the DLS size readings that were taken at 5 degree increments for GOx encapsulated nanoparticles from 25 C. to 60 C. In their swollen state the particles were approximately 95 nanometers nm and as temperature increased the particles shrunk by 50 to less than 50 nm in diameter. The size transition occurs at slightly above 40 C. which is above NiPAAm s LCST. After determining the particles were thermally responsive the aqueous stability or pot life was thoroughly examined.

Aqueous solutions containing native GOx native GOx with non enzyme containing nanoparticles functionalized GOx functionalized GOx with non enzyme containing nanoparticles as well as nanoencapsulated GOx were incubated at various temperatures and assayed to determine their thermal half life. Non enzyme containing nanoparticles were fabricated as previously described and utilized to ensure the presence of nanoparticles or the adsorption of enzyme to the nanoparticle surface would artificially increase GOx catalytic stability at elevated temperatures.

Before incubation at elevated temperatures GOx samples were assayed half life of thermal inactivation occurs when the GOx samples lose 50 of their original activity. GOx samples containing 0.5 mg mL enzyme and 1 mL nanoparticles or dHO were incubated at 50 C. 60 C. and 70 C. and were assayed throughout 48 hours. depicts the half life of GOx samples in hours at elevated temperatures. Through encapsulation into thermally responsive nanoparticles GOx s half life is increased at 50 C. by 8 times over unencapsulated controls a 15 fold increase occurred at 60 C. and at least a 2 fold increase in thermal half life occurs when incubated at 70 C. The pot life aqueous stability of GOx is significantly increased through encapsulation into thermally responsive nanoparticles over native or functionalized GOx.

Shelf life stability or dry storage stability of GOx was also investigated as shown in . Dry storage stability at 70 C. was studied to determine how encapsulation of enzymes within thermo responsive nanoparticles extends shelf life. Lyophilization or freeze drying is often used to extend the shelf life of enzymes while maintaining biological activity. The addition of excipients enables the enzyme to retain its active tertiary folding structure as the water is removed during lyophilization. Trehalose was used because it is a known natural lyoprotectant a molecule similar to a cryoprotectant that helps protect freeze dried material. Trehalose is produced by a variety of plant fungi and invertebrate animals that remain in a state of suspended animation during periods of drought and is known to enhance thermal stability of lyophilized GOx. Glucose oxidase encapsulated nanoparticles alongside native GOx were lyophilized with and without various amounts of stabilizer to determine the best ratio of stabilize to enzyme mass ratio. GOx and encapsulated GOx were lyophilized and studied in the presence of a 50 1 mass ratio of trehalose to enzyme. After lyophilization the enzymes were assayed for catalytic activity and stored dry as powdered aliquots continuously at 70 C. Lyophilization of these materials extends their shelf life over that of native enzyme. shows that native enzyme lost all activity after 3 weeks of storage at 70 C. whereas encapsulated functionalized enzyme conjugates of the present invention remained catalytically active after storage at 70 C. for over 6 months retaining approximately 40 activity. There is an initial decrease in encapsulated GOx activity however this decrease stabilizes and the enzyme s activity remains around 40 . Lyophilization of encapsulated enzymes further extends dry shelf life stability at elevated temperatures from 3 weeks to over 6 months. Shelf life of GOx at elevated temperatures is greatly enhanced by encapsulation into thermoresponsive nanoparticles of the present invention

In addition to providing methods of the present invention for encapsulation of a functionally active and 3 dimensionally immobilized organophosphorous hydrolase a hydrolase enzyme an oxidase enzyme and a glucose oxidase the present invention further provides a method for encapsulating acetylcholinesterase AChE into thermally responsive nanoparticles. Acetylcholinesterase EC 3.1.1.7 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. an enzyme of the central nervous system is inhibited by V series nerve agents thus the inhibition of AChE can be utilized for detection of nerve agents. The ability to stabilize AChE at elevated temperatures is useful for many areas including for example chemical detection and remediation as well as in the field of drug delivery.

Acetylcholinesterase was functionalized with at least one hydrophobic chemical group such as for example palmitic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester and at least one polymerizable chemical group such as for example acrylic acid N hydroxysuccinimide in a 2 step modification procedure as set forth in which increases surface hydrophobicity enabling the enzyme to enter the interior of the aqueous micelle prior to nanoparticle synthesis and provides a vinyl functionality that can be used to covalently anchor the enzyme 3 dimensionally within the growing polymer via free radical polymerization. The degree of functionalization is monitored after each modification step by comparing the fluorescent intensity of native and modified enzyme using a standard fluorescent assay fluorescamine. Catalytic activity of AChE is also monitored throughout the modification and nanoparticle fabrication procedure.

Catalytic activity of AChE is measured by utilizing 5 dithiobis 2 nitrobenzoic acid or DTNB. DTNB is a chemical used to quantify the number or concentration of thiol groups in a sample. shows the AChE assay which uses the thiol ester acetylthiocholine instead of the oxy ester acetylcholine. AChE hydrolyses the acetylthiocholine to produce thiocholine and acetate. The thiocholine in turn reduces the DTNB which absorbs at 405 nm.

The AChE pa acrylic acid conjugate seed that resulted from the inventions two step modification as set forth herein was further used in an enzyme friendly nanoparticle fabrication method of the present invention. This enzyme friendly fabrication method minimizes the loss of catalytic activity during the synthesis reaction. Surfactant was eliminated from this nanoparticle method in order to maintain AChE catalytic activity during the fabrication process. At slightly above ambient conditions nanoparticles containing functionalized AChE seeds were created. Four milligrams of AChE pa acrylic acid conjugate was added drop wise to a stirred aqueous solution under nitrogen for a final concentration of 0.04 mg mL AChE pa acrylic acid conjugate and allowed to equilibrate for 10 minutes. Comonomers styrene 0.06 w v and NiPAAm 0.4 w v were added to the reaction with a cross linker N N Methylenebisacrylamide 0.053 w v drop wise to the reactor and allowed to equilibrate for 10 minutes. An initiator KPS 0.16 w v was added to initiate the polymerization. At this time the temperature of the reaction was increased from 25 C. to 40 C. over a period of approximately 10 minutes. After the reaction reaches 40 C. which takes approximately 10 minutes the heat is removed and the stirred reactor is placed in an ice bath. A polymerization catalyst TEMED 0.01 w v is added to continue the free radical polymerization reaction while incubated on ice. The reaction is allowed to proceed for one hour after the addition of TEMED. After one hour stirring is stopped and the round bottom flask is removed from the ice bath. After synthesis samples were purified by equilibrium dialysis and centrifugation to remove unreacted monomer. After clean up the nanoparticles of the present invention were tested for volume response to temperature assayed for enzymatic activity and thoroughly studied for elevated temperature stability.

Acetylcholinesterase AChE encapsulated into thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention were analyzed via DLS to determine their diameter size particle distribution and volume transition due to temperature changes. shows AChE encapsulated nanoparticles and their size response to temperature. AChE encapsulated into thermally responsive nanoparticles were diluted to 0.5 v v and analyzed via DLS at one degree increments from 20 C. to 60 C. At ambient temperatures the particles are approximately 320 nanometers nm and shrink to 225 nm at elevated temperatures. The diameter size of the AChE encapsulated particles are larger than those particles made by methods that contain surfactant in the fabrication process. After determining the particles were thermally responsive the aqueous stability or pot life was examined.

Aqueous solutions containing native AChE native AChE incubated with non enzyme containing thermally responsive nanoparticles functionalized AChE functionalized AChE incubated with non enzyme containing thermally responsive nanoparticles and AChE encapsulated into thermally responsive nanoparticles of the present invention were incubated at 40 C. and 50 C. to determine their aqueous thermal half life of inactivation. Non enzyme containing thermally responsive nanoparticles were fabricated in the exact manner. AChE encapsulated nanoparticles were created but without enzyme and used to ensure that the presence of nanoparticles or enzyme adsorption onto nanoparticles artificially stabilize AChE activity at elevated temperatures.

Before incubation at elevated temperatures AChE samples were assayed half life of thermal inactivation occurs when the AChE samples lose 50 of their original activity. AChE samples containing 0.04 mg mL enzyme and 1 mL nanoparticles or dHO were incubated at 40 C. and 50 C. and were assayed over the course of 6 hours. depicts the activity of the AChE samples at 40 C. throughout the time course. Through encapsulation into thermally responsive nanoparticles AChE half life is increased at 40 C. by 6 times over unencapsulated controls. shows the activity of AChE samples at 50 C. over the course of 6 hours. Encapsulation into thermally responsive nanoparticles increases AChE half life of inactivation at 50 C. by 3.5 times over unencapsulated enzyme. The pot life aqueous stability of AChE is increased through encapsulation into thermally responsive nanoparticles over native or functionalized AChE.

A protein is functionalized with hydrophobic and polymerizable chemical groups as defined and described hereinabove in the two step modification process of the present invention. The resulting functionalized protein conjugate is then utilized as a seed for thermally responsive nanoparticle synthesis. The protein friendly fabrication procedure of the present invention minimizes the loss of protein during the synthesis reaction. At ambient slightly above ambient or below ambient conditions nanoparticles containing functionalized protein conjugates seeds were prepared. The functionalized protein conjugate seed is added to a stirred reactor that contained deionized water that had been bubbled with nitrogen. The functionalized protein conjugate is added drop wise to the reactor and is equilibrated for 10 minutes before a thermally responsive monomer as defined and described hereinabove is added. The monomer when polymerized becomes thermo responsive is then added dropwise to the reactor and equilibrated for 10 minutes. A crosslinker as defined and described hereinabove may or may not be added to the reactor during monomer addition. Following equilibration an initiator as defined and described hereinabove may or may not be added dropwise to the reactor. The nanoparticle fabrication procedure of the present invention is allowed to proceed until monodisperse nanoparticles of the present invention are formed.

Although the invention has been described in detail in the foregoing for the purpose of illustration it was to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that variations can be made therein by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention except as it may be limited by the claims.

