---

title: Unified greetings for social media
abstract: A unified greeting system scans social media for content. The content can be any type of post to a social media site. If content is directed to a user of the unified greeting system and if the user is currently unavailable, the unified greeting system determines if the content requires a reply. If a reply is warranted, the unified greeting system determines the characteristics of the content to determine the type of reply. Then, the unified greeting system provides the reply, which can be an “out-of-office message.” The out-of-office message is the posted to the social media site to alert the poster that the person is currently unavailable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08645841&OS=08645841&RS=08645841
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 08645841
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100727
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 235 838 filed Aug. 21 2009 entitled MOJO which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A well known problem exists with regard to message greetings. One has to individually administer greetings for each message type e.g. voice recordings for voice greetings and text for email Instant Messaging etc. This problem is worsened by the fact that some users change their greeting to customize the greeting for the day and date. Further messages that show the user as busy or out of the office can further add time to the process. Out of Office greetings are also typically customized to include dates of absence date of return etc. In addition there may be company policies to enforce regarding the content for such greetings. Exacerbating these problems is the popularity of participation in blogs micro blogs social networks and other social media and the inability to extend greetings outside of the current voice and email paradigms.

Specifically there is no way currently to extend calendar information greetings and or Out of Office information to certain types of social networks. Some of these social media are passive e.g. they require the user to navigate a browser and or login to a service. Another characteristic of these passive social networks are that a user will not necessarily receive specific communications other than RSS feeds from social networks. Examples of these passive social networks are discussion groups message boards online selling venues e.g. eBay. Craig s List and the like etc. This passivity creates a problem of how to respond to a request for participation or discussion when the user is unavailable to navigate to the site unavailable to read the content or the RSS feed of the content. Another class of social media is active where information comes in from the sender because the receiver has subscribed to the content. Examples of such active social media are MySpace LinkedIn etc.

There is an additional problem of how much information that the user wants to share with the person s requesting their communication and in what form to best share the information. The fact that many of these venues are public means that the user has the additional problem of posting for public consumption any replay message. Still another problem is the coordination of responses through an ever increasing number of media and venues. For example if one responded to an email query with an Out of Office assistant a social network response to the same person would be redundant and usurp bandwidth from the party receiving redundant Out of Office notices. When a party in which a person frequently communicates is out of the office the multiple out of office messages can be distracting and cost a great deal of bandwidth across a large enterprise.

It is with respect to the above issues and other problems that the embodiments presented herein were contemplated. Embodiments present a system for scanning social media for content. The content can be any type of post to a social media site. If content is directed to a user of the system the system determines if the content requires a reply. If a reply is warranted the system determines the characteristics of the content to determine the type of reply. A unified greeting system provides the reply which can be an out of office message. The message is the posted to the social media site to alert the poster that the person is currently unavailable.

The embodiments presented herein extend greetings capabilities and tailor those capabilities to active and passive social media. One improvement is to implement a web robot referred to as a bot or a wizard e.g. a software application for passive social media. The bot can periodically browse or navigate to the social networks and or screen RSS feeds and filter content based on name and or keyword searches for a request for communications. If the bot detects such a request the bot can determine the venue e.g. Facebook LinkedIn Twitter EBay Craig s List etc. . The bot may also determine the requesting party the trust basis with the requesting party the degrees of separation from the requesting party or other information about the content. Based on rules that the owner of the bot has configured and the other information defined above a messaging system can respond on the social media or alternatively via a private email instant message IM or through other communication media.

The bot may be located advantageously on the user s device or computer and or could be running on a server when such user s device or PC is not available. The bot can be programmed and or may implement forms of machine learning over time based on the behaviors of the user when the user is available to respond personally. The messaging system may pull the basis of a response from a calendar may pull a pre configured response set up by the user and or the system may pull a response from various greetings or an Out of Office indication or may pull other information. Further the messaging system can filter the basis of the response based on various information.

Another improvement extends the information about trusted contacts and un trusted contacts and resolves communication requests by determining information like degrees of separation for social networks the topic of a communication relationship within an organization or the like. The messaging system can respond by appropriately limiting the scope of the information provided based on these and other factors. Based on the venue the information requested and other such factors the messaging system may add delete or change portions of greetings certain calendar entries or other information to a level appropriate to those factors.

The embodiments presented herein may also have the ability to escalate automatically the notification to a user to send a notification to a mobility application when certain content requesting parties keywords and or requests are detected. Thus the system can escalate responses based on communications requests from social media.

Finally the system can coordinate responses so that if party A frequently contacts party B and party A has already received notice some number of times that party B is unavailable and cannot respond the system can suppress at least one response. The coordination of response can include limiting the responses to a specific number of responses sent over a single media and or to a predetermined number of responses across two or more forms of media. The rules of the coordination can be specified by the user.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term stalking means the process of determining a person is presently using a social media network and can be contacted on that social media network in real time.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the embodiments are described in terms of several examples it should be appreciated that individual aspects can be separately claimed.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a letter that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the claims. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

A communication system for interacting with persons using social media is shown in . The communication system can include a enterprise network a network and one or more types of social media networks or systems such as social media network social media network and social media network . Social media networks and or can be any social media including but not limited to networks websites blogs RSS feeds micro blogs or computer enabled systems. For example a social media network may be MySpace Facebook Twitter Linked In Spoke or other similar computer enabled systems or websites. The communication system can communicate with more or fewer social media networks and or than those shown as represented by ellipses .

The network can be any network or system operable to allow communication between the enterprise network and the one or more social media networks and or . The network can represent any communication system whether wired or wireless using any protocol and or format. The network provides communication capability for the enterprise network to communicate with sites corresponding to the one or more social media networks and or . However the network can represent two or more networks where each network is a different communication system using different communication protocols and or formats and or different hardware and software. For example network can be a wide area network local area network the Internet a cellular telephone network or some other type of communication system. The network may be as described in conjunction with .

An enterprise network can be a system that can communicate with one or more persons that use social media networking sites. The enterprise network can be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The enterprise network can be executed by one or more servers or computer systems as described in conjunction with . The enterprise network can include all systems whether hardware or software that allow the enterprise network to receive service and respond to social media contacts. An embodiment of the enterprise network is described in conjunction with .

The enterprise network may include a messaging system and a social media gateway . While the messaging system and the social media gateway are shown as being a part of the contact system in other embodiments the messaging system and or the social media gateway are separate systems or functions executed separately from the enterprise network and or executed by a third party. The messaging system may process and receive messages. The social media gateway can receive and translate messages from the one or more social media networks and or . An embodiment of the messaging system is described in conjunction with . An embodiment of the social media gateway is described in conjunction with .

The enterprise network may also communicate with one or more communication devices . The communication devices can represent a user s cell phone email system personal digital assistant laptop computer or other device that allows the enterprise network to interact with the customer. The enterprise network can modify a non direct contact from a social media network and or into a directed contact by sending a response message directly to a customer s communication device .

The WAN may be a packet switched network such as the Internet using the TCP IP suite of protocols or a circuit switched network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network or PSTN or a wireless cellular services network and LAN is commonly a packet switched network using an Ethernet protocol. As will be appreciated other protocols may be employed depending on the application.

The social media gateway is described in conjunction with . The TTS conversion engine converts text into corresponding speech and is conventional. The user database includes user information such as user identities electronic addresses scheduling information e.g. calendars task lists contact management information and preferences public folders social media aliases social media logon credentials lists of subscriptions to active and passive social media and organization and areas of responsibility.

The enterprise network includes a number of messaging servers. The voice messaging server receives content or other information from callers stores manages and provides information to users voice messages. The e mail server receives stores administers and provides e mail to users. Each user has a message box containing their stored messages. Instant messaging server receives and provides to the user instant messages. In one configuration two or more of the messaging servers are integrated as in the case of Modular Messaging by Avaya Inc.

The messaging system includes a number of computational modules specifically the calendar module which receives and executes scheduling requests and updates and meeting invitations from a user a greeting manager which interfaces with users to receive and store as part of one or more calendar entries customized greetings greeting selection agent that receives contacts selects an appropriate default or customized greeting and provides the selected greeting to the contactor and unable to contact Application Program Interface or API that processes Structured Query Language or SQL database queries received from the foregoing components. In alternative embodiments the greeting manager may employ a machine learning ability to determine how a user responds to social media content. The machine learning ability may help tailor the greeting managers formation of greetings and management of greetings.

The customized greeting which is stored as part of one or more calendar entries is commonly played via TTS conversion engine to callers as a voice equivalent or transmitted to text message senders which includes all form of text messages including e mails instant messages social media posts etc. as a text equivalent to what is stored as the customized greeting. The greeting is provided to contactors in the form in which it is stored while the calendar entry is current or active.

There is no need for the user to enable or disable the greeting. When the calendar entry is current or is active the greeting is provided automatically to contactors. When the calendar entry is no longer current or is inactive the greeting is no longer provided automatically to contactors.

The greeting as stored may be supplemented when provided to a contactor. For example a default prologue such as Hi This is X and or an epilogue such as Please leave a message after the beep or Thanks you and have a nice day that is not part of the customized greeting as stored may be provided before or after respectively the customized greeting.

The greeting manager administers the customized greeting for any entry on the electronic calendar. This would allow the user to customize the greeting for each calendar entry. It also permits the user to set up the customized greeting at the time that the calendar entry is added or otherwise entered. As noted the customized greeting can be sent in an email played as a voice greeting posted as a reply to social media content or post or used as an instant messaging response.

An embodiment of the social media gateway is shown in . In embodiments the social media gateway functions as a bot to find and responds to social media content. The social media gateway can include one or more components which may include hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The social media gateway can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a field programmable gate array FPGA .

Herein the social media gateway can include one or more content filters and or . A content filter can receive all of the messages for the enterprise network from a social media network and or and eliminate or delete those messages that do not require a response. For example a message on a Facebook page that does not request a response from the user may not need a response. As such the content filter can filter out or delete that non suitable message from the messages that are received by social media network application programming interface API social media network API and or social media network API . With the content filter the social media network API only needs to translate those messages that should be received by the messaging system . Translation typically requires the conversion of the message into a different format.

The content filter is provided with one or more heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown . These filter rules can be created by the user or an administrator of the communication system . Thus the user or administrator of the communication system can customize the filtering of messages from social media networks and or . Further different rules may be applied to different social media networks as some social media networks may have different types of messages or postings than other types of social media networks. The filtering may include filters based on the poster of social media content keywords in the content or other information.

While the content filter is shown as part of the social media gateway it is to be appreciated that the content filter may be a part of the social media network API . The content filter may correspond to the query terms used by the social media network API . The content filter or query terms are an argument to the social media network API call. The social media network API can be an application that the social media network and or provides to access the site. Thus the social media network API is called and connects the social media gateway to the social media network and or . Any suitable filter criteria may be employed. Examples include content of source address field destination or recipient address fields time stamp field subject matter field and message body field. For example searchable content is the name of the person for which an automated response would be sent.

The social media gateway can include one or more social media network API . As shown in the social media gateway may include a social media network API for each social media network and or . As such the social media gateway can interact with each social media network and or in the particular often unique format or protocol used by the social media network and or . Further when new social media networks are created the social media gateway can easily be expanded to interact with those social media networks by adding another social media network API . Where social media networks are more standardized or use substantially similar formats or protocols a single social media network API can be shared by multiple such social media networks 

The social media network API can receive messages from and send messages to the social media network and or . In embodiments the social media network API may periodically search e.g. once an hour day week etc. active social media for messages and automatically receive messages from passive social media. The social media network API can translate a message received from a social media network and or and send the translated message to a message filter . The social media network API can translate the received message into a standard formatted file. For example the translated message may be represented by an extensible mark up language XML file or other file having a general format. As such each specific and particular social media network message can be translated into a standard format for use by the messaging system . Further the social media network API can receive a generally or standard format response message from the messaging system and translate that response into a particularly or specifically formatted response message that can be posted to the corresponding social media network and or

Messages to the user are addressed to the user. For example a person may become a friend of the user on a social media network such as Facebook. The customer may then address a message to the user on Facebook. This non direct contact is a message that is not sent directly to the user but to the user s Facebook page. In other embodiments the enterprise network receives messages not addressed to the user. For example the user can receive tweets from Twitter that are broadcast rather than addressed to the user. The enterprise network may also search for messages or content on the social media network and or . Exemplary search criteria include the user s name user s home address user s business address user s employer name user s educational or professional background user s hobby personal or business interests user s family profile and the like. Thus the social media gateway of the enterprise network can query gather or connect to a live feed of data from a social media network and or and then apply a filter to the indirect information.

The translated messages from the social media network API can be received by a message filter . A message filter can perform some or all of the functions of the content filter and eliminate messages before being sent to the messaging system . Thus the messaging system receives a message where some of the content of the message has been deleted. The message filter can retrieve heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown similar to the content filter . A substantial difference between the content and message filters and is that the content filter is specific to a particular message format associated with a corresponding social media network while the message filter is applied to a standardized or universal format and is therefore common to multiple social media networks . One skilled in the art will understand the type of rules that may be used to filter information from messages such that only pertinent questions facts requests or information is sent to the messaging system .

A message aggregator may also be included with the social media gateway . A message aggregator can in contrast to the message filter combine two or more messages into a packet or grouping that is sent to the messaging system . Therefore the message aggregator can inter relate or combine messages based on different information within the messages. For example two messages may be combined based on any of the message fields referenced above such as the person that posted the message the subject the request or question asked the person the message was sent to or other information that may be pertinent to the messaging system . Thus the messaging system may be able to respond concurrently to two or more messages based on a grouping provided by the message aggregator . If the messages are aggregated or not aggregated each message can be sent from the social media gateway to the messaging system .

The social media gateway can also send responses back to the social media networks and or . A response from the messaging system can be sent to the social media gateway . The response may be in a general format and translated. The translated response may then be posted to the appropriate social media network and or by the social media gateway . In other embodiments the messaging system may post the response directly to the social media network and or without sending the response to the social media gateway .

It should be noted that the modules components and or systems that are described as executing on the enterprise network may also execute in a user device. Thus the user s device can manage messaging to social media postings. In other embodiments the modules components and or systems that are described as executing on the enterprise network may execute on a server for two or more users of an enterprise or in the cloud as a service for two or more users.

An embodiment of a process or method shows the operation of the greeting manager in . Generally the method begins with a start operation and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method are shown in the method can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules software data structures etc. described in conjunction with and .

The process starts when a calendar entry is created or edited. Referring to a screen shot of a calendar module display is depicted. The window is shown as it is displayed for a user creating a new or editing an old calendar entry. The subject of the meeting is Meeting with John Smith of Acme Corporation the location 1500 Park Avenue Suite 1000 the start time 9 AM on Wednesday May 31 2010 and end time 11 30 AM Wednesday May 31 . The description of the meeting is shown in user entry box . A customized greeting option permits the user by checking the Yes icon to enter a customized greeting for contactors during the time scheduled for the meeting i.e. 9 to 11 30 AM on May 31 2010 .

Referring now to when a calendar entry is created the greeting manager determines in step whether the user desires to enter a customized greeting. Referring to the greeting manager knows that the user desires to enter a customized greeting when the user clicks on the icon . If the user desires to enter a customized greeting step proceeds YES to step . If the user does not desire to enter a customized greeting step proceeds NO to return to step to await a new greeting.

In response to clicking on the icon the greetings manager in optional step can apply rules or templates to generate a set of proposed greetings for consideration by the user. The rules or templates can themselves be configured by the user. In one configuration the user can specify when the entry is created a type of calendar entry e.g. an out of office meeting entry an in the office meeting entry a telephone conference entry a vacation entry and an outside of business hours entry that is used for selecting an appropriate set of proposed customized greetings for consideration by the user. When a customized greeting is created by the user the user can indicate whether or not to have the greeting used as a proposed customized greeting for the type of calendar entry for which the greeting was created. In that event the user can specify fields in the message to be populated automatically by information in future calendar entries of the same type.

The greetings manager in step provides the display of which may be a child window of the window to the user. The window includes the following fields use greeting for internal calls or calls from other users use greeting for external calls or calls from non users use greeting for internal emails or emails from other users use greeting for Facebook messages or social media content directed to the user on the user s Facebook page use greeting for Twitter messages or social media content directed to the user on Twitter all of the above use greeting for designated users and the box for receiving the customized greeting from the user. Fields permit the greeting to be used for specified modalities of communication. The fields for the communication modalities are not limited to those examples shown in . Other modalities can include at least one of but are not limited to a MySpace field a LinkedIn field a blog field a micro blog field a Spoke field a YouTube field etc. Thus the user can tailor greetings for different types of social media.

Field permits the greeting to be used for specified sets of contactors. For example the user may provide contact information such as a private cell phone number for a family member or business acquaintance. Field or another field may also provide selections that relate to responses for social media. For example selections can be related to one or more of but are not limited to the person posting a social media message that requires a response the degrees of separation of the poster e.g. degrees of separation is a function in LinkedIn the content of the posting the nature of the venue e.g. private media public media semi private media etc. a trust level for the poster the relationship of the poster with a third party e.g. an employee of an enterprise a customer of an enterprise. etc. etc. As will be appreciated the box type fields and could be implemented as a multiple selectable pull down menu that could list the depicted and additional contact types.

In other embodiments the user may also be able to select whether a certain type of social media response should be sent by other communication media other than posting on the social media site. For example a response may not be posted on a public forum. Rather information about a poster may be found in a database. The information can include an email address or an instant message alias. Thus the greetings manager can direct the response message to the poster s email or instant messaging alias rather than post the response on the public social media site.

In other alternatives the greeting may be changed based on the presence of the user. Thus the messaging system can receive presence information e.g. physical location information derived from actual determination of the user s location such as through GPS measurements of the user s phone or from other information a logon onto a computer . This presence information can be used to determine whether the user may be available e.g. the user is in their office. The greeting may change based on the presence of the user. The user may be able to select this option in the user interface .

Alternatively or additionally a field not shown could be provided for contactors for whom the greeting is not to be used. The greeting box contains the user selected or entered greeting I will be in a sales meeting all morning . As can be seen in the user may select the recurrence icon which causes the selected or entered greeting to be used for multiple calendar entries which are generated by selecting the recurrence icon of . As will be appreciated a recurring meeting is a meeting that occurs with a selected frequency or periodicity over time.

In step the greetings manager when the save and close command is received stores the greeting and related information itself or a pointer to the storage location of the greeting and related information in the pertinent calendar entry or entries. In the latter case a pointer to the relevant calendar entries may be stored at the storage location of the greeting and related information.

In decision diamond the greetings manager determines whether the user has activated the enter further greetings icon in . This capability permits a user to enter a number of differing customized greetings for a common calendar entry. This may be desirable for example where a user wants to use different greetings for different modalities of communication e.g. fields and or for different sets of contactors field . Thus the user can customize greetings for different social media and different parameters associated with the social media postings.

When the user wishes to enter a further greeting the first greeting shown in is saved and the window refreshed with a new window having the various fields blank. Depending on the configuration the field may be blank or contain the previously entered greeting in box for editing by the user.

An embodiment of a process or method shows the operation of the greeting selection agent in . Generally the method begins with a start operation and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method are shown in the method can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules software data structures etc. described in conjunction with and .

In step the greeting selection agent is notified when a contact is received for a first or selected user at a first time. The contact may be a posting or content received from passive or active social media. For example the contact may be a posting to the user s Facebook page. The posting may request a response e.g. Bill would you be up for golf this afternoon . In other embodiments the posting may be from an RSS feed e.g. Bill is the best person to talk about this. .

When the incoming contact is a social media posting the greeting selection agent in step queries the API for customized greeting information if any. The greeting selection agent may determine if the user responds to the social media content e.g. a user may be on vacation but may still be able to access their social media and respond . If there is no response after a predetermined amount of time e.g. a day an hour etc. an out of office message may be formulated and sent after a specified amount of time passes without a response by the recipient of the message.

The query to the API includes one or more of the following but is not limited to the identity of the first user or messaged user social media network the identity of the sender the timestamp of the message e.g. when the message was received the type of incoming message e.g. internal email external email and instant message the amount of trust for the sender the degrees of separation from the sender the type of venue of the social media and other parameters of the social media posting. Thus the API can return any information about the social media the poster or the posting that is available. The information returned may be provided by the social media gateway either automatically or returned in response to a request from the API . In alternative embodiments some or all of the information associated with the social media may be stored in the database and not required in the message exchange with the social media gateway . For example the type of venue for the social media e.g. Facebook is semi private a blog is public etc. may be stored in the database because this information does not change regardless of the posting.

The API accesses the user database and determines whether the identified user has an active calendar entry covering the period of the timestamp and if so whether the first user has entered a customized greeting. If so the API accesses the user database to determine whether the customized greeting is to be used for the poster the venue the social media type etc. The API returns a response including an indicator whether a customized greeting is to be used and if so a pointer to the storage location of the customized greeting.

In decision diamond the greeting selection agent determines whether the response indicates whether a customized greeting is to be provided. If so step proceeds YES to step where the greeting selection agent causes the appropriate customized greeting to be provided to the contactor in step . If not step proceeds NO to step where the greeting selection agent causes a default greeting to be provided to the contactor in step .

In step the pertinent greeting or message is directed to the contactor. Here the greeting may be posted to the social media site. For example a non specific response used for un trusted persons or for public forums such as I cannot respond at this time may be posted to a public forum. In another example a more tailored message such as Fred I am in Hawaii right now I will get back to you when I return on Monday may be used in private or semi private forums e.g. Facebook with trusted contactors e.g. friends or family or people with a low level of separation e.g. one or two degrees.

In alternative embodiments the message is directed to the contactor but through different media. A contactor may have a close relationship with the user e.g. trusted and with a low level of separation. However the posting may have come from a public social media site. In this situation information about the contactor may be found in the user s database such as the contactor s email address for a communication device . An email with the greeting may be created and sent to the communication device . The greeting can refer to the posting e.g. In reference to you blog posting on BizForum I am in Hawaii right now and will get back to you when I return on Monday. 

In still other alternative embodiments a greeting may require escalation. If the content or the contactor is deemed important the greeting selection agent may inform the user of the posting. For example if the content requests and immediate response or if the person is a family member who needs immediate attention the greeting selection agent may form an email or create a phone message greeting to send to the user s communication device. Thus important messages are brought to the user s attention rather than just respond with a greeting.

Another alternative embodiment can prevent duplicate greetings going to multiple social media sites or to the same contactor. The social media gateway may aggregate several messages if the messages are deemed to be the same or similar. For example a single contactor may post two messages e.g. one on Facebook and one on MySpace to the same user for the same reason e.g. Hey buddy want to play golf this weekend The message aggregator can deem these messages to be related by the contactor the content and the time of posting. Thus the messages may be grouped and sent to the messaging system together. The greeting selection agent can determine a greeting for the message. Instead of sending the message to both social media sites the greeting selection agent may send one message to one of the social media sites using the social media gateway and reference the other posting. In other embodiments the content may be similar and several contactors may be involved. The greeting selection agent may still determine that a single response is warranted. Further a single contactor may post several successive messages over a period of time to the same or multiple social media sites e.g. Hey buddy want to play golf this weekend Dude what is the best driver on the market and Jill wants me to ask if you and Heather want to go on a picnic on the 15. These repetitive messages may be deemed as related although the content may be different and only one response is given to prevent the single contactor from receiving the same greeting multiple times.

A number of other variations and modifications can be used. Further it would be possible to provide for some features without providing others.

System further includes a network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation SIP TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network maybe a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 702.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks. The network may be the same or similar to network .

The system may also include one or more server computers . One server may be a web server which may be used to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers and . The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The web server can also run a variety of server applications including SIP servers HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some instances the web server may publish operations available operations as one or more web services.

The system may also include one or more file and or application servers which can in addition to an operating system include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the user computers . The server s may be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and . As one example the server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The web pages created by the web application server may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server . Similarly the web server may be able to receive web page requests web services invocations and or input data from a user computer and can forward the web page requests and or input data to the web application server . In further embodiments the server may function as a file server. Although for ease of description illustrates a separate web server and file application server those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to servers may be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters. The computer systems and file server and or application server may function as the system devices or components described in .

The system may also include a database . The database may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments the database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10i that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments the computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the system . Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information.

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as program code implementing the ancillary server . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

While illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

