---

title: Optical assay system for intraoperative assessment of tumor margins
abstract: The subject matter described herein includes an optical assay system for intraoperative assessment of tumor margins. According to one aspect, the subject matter described herein includes a biological sample containment and illumination apparatus for holding a biological sample for illumination by a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes. The biological sample containment and illumination apparatus includes a plurality of frame members positioned with respect to each other to form an interior space for receiving a biological sample. At least one of the plurality of frame members includes a plurality of probe receiving locations for receiving a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes. The probe receiving locations position the probes with respect to the biological sample to allow illumination of plural locations of the biological sample by the probes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07952704&OS=07952704&RS=07952704
owner: Duke University
number: 07952704
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100702
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 729 967 filed Mar. 29 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 751 039 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 787 462 filed Mar. 30 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This presently disclosed subject matter was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. R01 CA100559 01A1 awarded by the United States National Institutes of Health National Cancer Institute. Thus the U.S. Government has certain rights in the presently disclosed subject matter.

The subject matter described herein relates to methods compositions and systems for detecting electromagnetic radiation reflected from or emitted by a biological sample. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to an apparatus for holding a biological sample for illumination by a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes and methods and systems for using the apparatus to determine an indication of a physical property of the biological sample.

Cancer is a significant cause of illness related deaths in the United States. A common therapy for cancer is surgical resection of the tumor followed by radiation chemotherapy or both radiation and chemotherapy. The goal of these therapies is to remove the observable tumor itself and as much additional surrounding tissue as possible in order to decrease the likelihood that pre neoplastic or neoplastic cells that appear morphologically normal remain in the subject that can later form the basis of a recurrence or metastasis.

In many cases however there is a desire to limit the removal of surrounding tissue to the greatest extent possible in order to maintain the appearance and or function of the tissue from which the tumor was resected. In order to balance the desire to remove potentially neoplastic tissue while preserving normal tissue the surgeon will often be supported by a pathologist who during or subsequent to the resection procedure examines the excised tissue. The pathologist s examination is designed to determine if a sufficient boundary of normal tissue surrounding the tumor has been removed to suggest that any potentially neoplastic cells have been resected. This examination of the tumor margin also can be used to determine whether further surgical intervention is necessary.

One situation where the interplay between the desire to completely remove a tumor and yet to minimize the removal of normal tissue is prominent is in breast cancer. It is estimated that about 125 000 women diagnosed with early stage breast cancer receive breast conserving surgery BCS each year. BCS involves removal of the cancer with a surrounding margin of normal breast tissue. An important predictor of local recurrence after BCT is pathologic margin status. Reported rates of re excision surgery as a result of close or positive surgical margins are high 10 40 . Intraoperative frozen section and touch prep cytology have been developed to assess surgical margins and guide additional resection at the time of the initial operation. However these techniques have not been widely adopted because of the need for specially trained personnel pathologist prolonged surgical time required for specimen processing 20 40 minutes significant technical challenges and limited coverage of the tumor margins less than 1 of the margins are examined .

At least in part because of these limitations re excision of the tumor site is frequently required. To decrease the need for re excision several intra operative techniques have been developed to assess surgical margins and guide additional resection at the time of the initial operation. These methods include intra operative frozen section and touch prep cytology. Among the drawbacks of these techniques are the need for specially trained personnel pathologist prolonged surgical time required for specimen processing 20 40 minutes technical problems related to freezing and cutting tissue with high fat content and limited surveillance of the tumor margins. Moreover pathological margin assessment relies on visual inspection of the specimen and is unreliable for grossly occult lesions such as DCIS or invasive lobular carcinoma. Thus these methods have not been widely adopted for intra operative assessment of margins.

What are needed then are robust reliable and rapid strategies for assessing tumor margins. To address this need at least in part the subject matter described herein provides methods and systems for imaging biological samples.

The subject matter described herein includes an optical assay system for intraoperative assessment of tumor margins. According to one aspect the subject matter described herein includes a biological sample containment and illumination apparatus for holding a biological sample for illumination by a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes. The biological sample containment and illumination apparatus includes a plurality of frame members positioned with respect to each other to form an interior space for receiving a biological sample. At least one of the plurality of frame members includes a plurality of probe receiving locations for receiving a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes. The probe receiving locations position the probes with respect to the biological sample to allow illumination of plural locations of the biological sample by the probes.

The subject matter described herein also includes a method for testing a biological sample. The method includes placing a biological sample in an interior space defined by a biological sample containment and illumination apparatus having a plurality of frame members at least one of which includes a plurality of probe receiving locations for receiving a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes and for positioning the probes with respect to the sample to allow illumination of plural locations of the sample by the probes. The biological sample is illuminated through the probe receiving locations using the probes. Electromagnetic radiation reemitted from the biological sample is detected.

The subject matter described herein further includes a system for imaging a sample. The system includes a biological sample containment and illumination apparatus for holding a biological sample for illumination by a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes. The biological sample containment and illumination apparatus includes a plurality of frame members positioned with respect to each other to form an interior space for receiving a biological sample. At least one of the plurality of frame members includes a plurality of probe receiving locations for receiving a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes and for positioning the probes with respect to the biological sample to allow illumination of plural locations of the biological sample by the probes. A plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes is provided for illuminating the plural locations of the biological sample via the probe receiving locations with electromagnetic radiation generated by an electromagnetic radiation source and for detecting electromagnetic radiation reflected or emitted by the biological sample via the probe receiving locations. A processor is coupled to probes for receiving reemitted electromagnetic radiation and for determining an indication of a physical property of the biological sample.

As used herein the phrase biological sample includes any sample that includes biological tissue. In some embodiments a biological sample comprises a tumor biopsy which is in some embodiments a breast tumor biopsy or a portion of a breast tumor that has been resected from a subject.

As used herein the phrase an indication of a physical property of the biological sample refers to any physical property of a biological sample including an assessment that is predictive of an area in the biological sample that has been imaged comprising all normal cells all pre neoplastic and or neoplastic cells or a combination thereof. In one implementation the indication of the physical property may include an indication of the concentration of one or more absorbers or fluorophores or scatterer cell nuclei size in the biological sample.

All references cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties to the extent that they supplement explain provide a background for or teach methodology techniques and or compositions employed herein.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present subject matter one or more examples of which are shown in the figures. Each example is provided to explain the subject matter and not as a limitation. In fact features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used in another embodiment to yield still a further embodiment. It is intended that the present subject matter cover such modifications and variations.

The subject matter disclosed herein includes a biological sample containment and illumination apparatus and methods and systems for using the biological containment and illumination apparatus to an indication of a physical property of the biological sample. is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components of a system for imaging a sample. Referring to the system includes a biological sample containment and illumination apparatus for holding a biological sample. Biological sample containment and illumination apparatus may include a plurality of frame members positioned with respect to each other to form an interior space for receiving a biological sample. In one exemplary implementation at least one of the plurality of frame members of biological containment and illumination apparatus may be translatable with respect to another frame member such that the volume of interior space can be altered in at least one direction. In an alternate implementation containment and illumination apparatus at least two of the plurality of frame members are translatable in order to alter the volume of the interior space in at least two directions.

In one implementation biological sample containment and illumination apparatus comprises a parallelepiped structure with two frame members that are moveable with respect to each other to vary the interior volume. illustrate different views of an exemplary biological sample containment and illumination apparatus according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. Referring to biological sample illumination and containment apparatus includes a first frame member and a second frame member . Frame member is translatable with respect to frame member to vary the interior volume of biological sample containment and illumination apparatus . More particularly a frame member includes a first side having extensions that slide in grooves of frame member . Frame member also includes a second side illustrated in that extends orthogonally from first side . In frame member is moved with regard to frame member to decrease the interior volume of biological sample containment and illumination apparatus . In frame member is moved outwardly with regard to frame member to increase the volume defined by frame members and for holding a biological sample.

In one exemplary implementation frame members and are separable from each other to facilitate cleaning and placement of biological samples. is an exploded view of frame members and illustrating their separability. As illustrated in each side of frame member as well as each side of frame member includes plural probe receiving locations. Providing plural probe receiving locations allows for testing of a biological sample at plural locations on the sample without moving the biological sample. In one implementation plural probes may be placed in plural probe receiving locations to simultaneously or serially illuminate a biological sample. Returning to a single probe is shown as being positioned in one of probe receiving locations . However it is understood that plural probes may be simultaneously placed in plural probe receiving locations to increase the speed at which a biological sample can be tested.

The subject matter described herein is not limited to providing a biological sample containment and illumination apparatus where one frame member is translatable with regard to another frame member. In an alternate implementation the frame members of biological sample containment and illumination apparatus may be fixed with respect to each other to define a fixed volume. In order to test biological samples of different volumes biological sample containment and illumination apparatuses of different interior volumes may be provided.

Biological sample containment and illumination apparatus may be made of any suitable material. In order to allow a user to view the biological sample when placed inside of apparatus the material may be transparent or translucent. In one implementation biological containment and illumination apparatus may be made of an acrylic glass material such as polymethyl methacrylate.

The translatable frame member or members of biological sample containment and illumination apparatus can be employed to alter the volume of the interior space so that it approximates the volume of the biological sample. For example the biological sample can be placed within the interior space and allowed to settle to an initial position by gravity. The position of one or more translatable frame members can then be changed such that at least a portion of each frame member is in contact with a portion of the biological sample. If desired the shape of the biological sample can be forced to conform to the shape of the interior space by using the translatable frame members to apply a pressing force to the biological sample.

In at least one of the plurality of frame members of biological sample containment and illumination apparatus includes a plurality of receiving locations generally designated for receiving a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes generally designated and for positioning the plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes with respect to the biological sample to allow illumination of plural locations of the biological sample by the probes. In some embodiments each of the plurality of receiving locations is adapted to receive a fiber optic probe. In one implementation each probe receiving location comprises an aperture.

Each fiber optic probe may include at least one illumination fiber and at least one collection fiber . Some fibers may be both illumination and collection fibers. An exemplary structure for probe will be described in detail below.

The apertures of biological containment and illumination apparatus can be spaced from each other so as to avoid cross talk between adjacent probes. In one exemplary implementation each of the apertures has a diameter of about 3.7 mm and adjacent apertures have a 2 mm radial separation. In some embodiments of biological containment and illumination apparatus the fiber optic probes have a sensing depth of between about 1 and 2 mm.

In one implementation biological sample containment and illumination apparatus may include means for controlling advancement of each fiber optic probe in each aperture to position the fiber optic probe adjacent to the biological sample. In some embodiments the means for controlling advancement of each fiber optic probe in each aperture includes a barrier located at an end of each aperture adjacent to the interior space to prevent the fiber optic probes from entering the interior space. Alternatively or in addition the means for controlling advancement may include one or more adapters coupleable to one or more of the fiber optic probes to prevent the fiber optic probe from entering the interior space through the aperture. illustrates an adapter suitable for use with embodiments of the subject matter described herein. In adapter is coupled to fiber and to one of apertures . A set screw limits advancement of fiber into adapter and into the corresponding aperture . Adapter may include a first portion not shown that is of a diameter to fit within one of apertures and a second portion that is larger than the diameter of apertures to limit advancement of adapter in its respective aperture. The reason for limiting advancement of probe into apparatus is to prevent probe from deforming the biological sample being tested and thereby changing its optical properties. In some embodiments the plurality of fiber optic probes are fixedly attached to each other such that the adapter that prevents the fiber optic probe to which it is attached from entering the interior space also prevents all of the plurality of fiber optic probes from entering the interior space.

Returning to a detector may detect the emitted or reflected light signals detected by collection fibers and output electrical signals corresponding to the optical signals. In one implementation detector comprises a charge coupled device CCD .

In order to account for the effects of probe geometry and separate the effects of the absorbers scatterers and fluorophores the system illustrated in includes a processor that runs one or more simulations to generate a model of reflectance and then a model of fluorescence and then uses the model to generate an indication of a physical property of the biological sample. Processor may receive as input simulation start parameters an initial guess of the optical properties of the biological sample into the model of reflectance. In one implementation these optical properties may include absorption coefficient scattering coefficient anisotropy factor and refractive index. An iterative inversion scheme will be used to optimize the fits to retrieve the actual optical properties of the biological sample. These optical properties will used as inputs into the model of fluorescence to extract the intrinsic fluorescence. If the indication of intrinsic fluorescence to be determined is the concentration of one or more fluorophores processor may receive as input fluorophore characteristics such as the extinction coefficient of the fluorophore at the excitation wavelength the probability that a photon absorbed by a fluorophore will generate fluorescence and the spectral probability distribution of the generated fluorescence at the emission wavelength. If these properties of the fluorophore are determined then the concentration of the fluorophore in the biological sample can be determined. If these properties and not provided as input to processor the indicator of intrinsic fluorescence may be an alternate measure of intrinsic fluorescence such as the product of the quantum yield and the fluorophore concentration.

Monte Carlo modeling techniques can be used to design an optical probe that has a sensing depth of 2 mm within breast tissues. The Monte Carlo model allows simulation of light transport within a theoretical tissue model for different optical probe geometries and outputs a number of relevant parameters including the total signal detected by the probe which will give a measure of signal to noise as well as the distribution of the light photons within the tissue model i.e. optical sensing depth . Representative Monte Carlo modeling techniques for this purpose are disclosed in co pending U.S. patent application entitled MONTE CARLO BASED MODEL OF FLUORESCENCE IN TURBID MEDIA AND METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR USING SAME TO DETERMINE INTRINSIC FLUORESCENCE OF TURBID MEDIA filed Mar. 16 2007 and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 119 865 entitled METHOD FOR EXTRACTION OF OPTICAL PROPERTIES FROM DIFFUSE REFLECTANCE SPECTRA filed May 2 2005 the disclosures of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Returning to the system may include an electromagnetic radiation source to illuminate a biological sample via probes . In one implementation electromagnetic radiation source may be a light source such as a broadband light source and one or more color filters for illuminating a biological sample with different colors or wavelengths of light. In an alternate implementation electromagnetic radiation source may be a non visible light source such as an infrared radiation source for illuminating a biological sample with infrared radiation. In yet another alternate implementation electromagnetic radiation source may include different narrowband light sources such as LED light sources for illuminating a biological sample with different wavelengths.

As stated above each probe may include at least one illumination fiber and at least one collection fiber . illustrates an example of a probe geometry suitable for use with embodiments of the subject matter described herein. More particularly in a central core of illumination fibers is shown by cross hatching in each fiber. Collection fibers concentrically surround illumination fibers . In the illustrated example collection fibers are shown by single hatching in each fiber. Fibers are dead fibers that are not used for collection or illumination and are merely used to package the fibers in a bundle. In order to hold the fibers in a bundle a sheath surrounds fibers and . In one aspect of probe the central core of illumination fibers has a diameter of 1 mm and each collection fiber and fiber has a diameter of 200 m.

In operation the tips of illumination fibers are placed in contact with the tissue surface. Illumination fibers deliver light from source to the tissue surface. The light propagates through the tissue and a fraction of the light propagating through the tissue volume exits the tissue surface as a diffuse reflectance signal. Collection fibers collect a portion of the emitted light from the tissue surface and couples it to processor which determines an indication of a physical property of the sample. The geometry of the illumination and collection fibers separation between the fibers and their corresponding diameters and the optical properties absorption and scattering of the tissue through which the light propagates define the optical sensing depth see Pfefer et al. 2003 28 120 122 Zhu et al. 2003 8 237 247 Zhu et al. 2006 38 714 724 . See also Palmer et al. 2006 45 1072 1078.

According to one aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method for testing a biological sample. is a flow chart of an exemplary method for testing a biological sample according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. Referring to in step the biological samples placed in the interior space defined by biological sample containment and illumination apparatus having a plurality of frame members. At least one of the frame members includes a plurality of probe receiving locations for receiving a plurality of electromagnetic radiation probes and for positioning the probes with respect to the sample to allow illumination of plural locations of the same by the probes. For example a biological sample may be placed in biological sample containment and illumination apparatus illustrated in . One or more probes may be placed in probe receiving locations to illuminate plural locations of the sample.

Returning to in step the biological sample is illuminated through the probe receiving locations using the probes. Referring to a biological sample within containment apparatus may be illuminated using one or more of probes via light source .

Returning to in step electromagnetic radiation reflected from a biological sample is detected. Returning to collection fibers may detect electromagnetic radiation emitted from the biological sample and couple that radiation to processor so that a physical property of the biological sample can be determined.

The following example illustrates an application of the subject matter described herein for intra operative assessment of a breast tissue biopsy.

Immediately after surgical excision a biological sample comprising a breast tissue biopsy is dabbed dry and placed in biological sample containment and illumination apparatus . Adjustments are made by translating one or more frame members until the tissue conforms to the shape of biological sample containment and illumination apparatus and all 6 faces of the biological containment and illumination apparatus are flush with the biological sample. One or more electromagnetic radiation probes is inserted into an aperture in one of the frame members of biological sample containment and illumination apparatus until the tip of the electromagnetic radiation probe is flush with the inner surface of the biological containment and illumination apparatus e.g. in contact with the surface of the biological sample and an optical measurement is made. Specifically a diffuse reflectance spectrum over a wavelength range of 400 650 nm is recorded. This measurement takes less than a second to complete. This procedure is repeated for all holes on the 6 faces of biological sample containment and illumination apparatus. Alternatively an array of electromagnetic radiation probes is employed and diffuse reflectance spectrum over a wavelength range of 400 650 nm is recorded either simultaneously or sequentially for each of the electromagnetic radiation probes in the array. Depending on the number of electromagnetic radiation probes in the array and the number of apertures in the frame member the array is repositioned and the readings taken for the new positions as necessary. The total measurement takes no more than 30 minutes. It has been shown previously that the optical properties of freshly excised tissue retains relatively unchanged during this period see Palmer et al. 2002 3 191 200 .

After each measurements is completed several sites on each face of the biological containment and illumination apparatus are labeled with colored ink such that these sites can be evaluated by a pathologist for positive or negative margins. The number of sites that are marked with ink per specimen is coordinated with a pathologist. Note that because only a fraction of the margins would be expected to be positive the majority of the margins evaluated are negative for disease. To increase the representation of disease in the collected spectral data set each specimen is be cut in half after the margins have been optically examined and the spectra from known disease in the middle of the sample is measured and inked. In each patient this site is considered to be representative of a positive margin since a positive margin is essentially malignant tissue extending all the way to the edge of the lumpectomy specimen.

A two step algorithm is employed for classification of positive and negative margins an inverse Monte Carlo model described in Palmer Ramanujam 2006 45 1062 1071 is employed for feature extraction features related to breast tissue composition from the diffuse reflectance spectra and a support vector machine classification algorithm SVM is used for classification based on these extracted features see Zhu et al. 2006 38 714 724 . The extracted features include absorbers and scatterers. The scattering coefficient is related to the size and density of scatterers present in the tissue e.g. cell membranes nuclei structural proteins whereas the absorption coefficient is related to the concentration of compounds present in tissue which absorb light in the visible wavelength regime e.g. oxy and deoxy hemoglobin beta carotene and proteins .

One challenge that has been encountered is the effect of lymphazurin present on the surface of the lumpectomy specimens. Lymphazurin is an isosulfan blue dye which is routinely used to aid surgeons in identification of the sentinel lymph node. This material is injected peritumorally prior to surgical resection and is distributed throughout the axillary lymph system to a degree dependent upon the particular patient and disease state. In a majority of the cases the dye is located on the surface of the excised specimens. The dye component of this material has significant absorption in the wavelength range being investigated and has no diagnostic value. While the Monte Carlo model employed can extract the concentration of this dye it is currently unknown what the acceptable concentration limit for this dye is that still allows for accurate extraction of concentrations of the other diagnostically important tissue constituents. Thus a systematic investigation of this using well controlled liquid allowable on the surface of the tumor that does not affect the extraction of concentrations of the diagnostic absorbers is performed.

The tissue composition parameters extracted from optical measurements of the specimens are grouped according to pathologic analysis of the margin status of the individually interrogated sites. Then a classification algorithm is trained on these data in order to classify future optical tissue measurements as either positive or negative for cancer. This classification algorithm is formed by using a SVM algorithm for training which is based on machine learning theory Palmer et al. 2006 45 1072 1078 and Gunn 1998 Support Vector Machines for Classification and Regression University of Southampton Department of Electronics and Computer Science available at http homepages.cae.wisc.edu ece539 software svmtoolbox svm.pdf . The classification algorithm is trained using a linear SVM based on the most discriminatory parameters if the data do not support this then various non linear SVM algorithms are investigated to determine which gives the best classification performance for the clinical data. The sensitivity specificity and classification accuracy of the algorithm is then estimated using the leave one out cross validation method Good 2001 Birkh user Boston Mass. United States of America . In this method one sample is removed from the training set and the remaining data are used to train the SVM while the removed sample is used as a test sample to assess the classification accuracy of the algorithm. This provides an unbiased estimation of the sensitivity specificity and accuracy of the classification algorithm.

In an effort to further streamline the data acquisition process for increased efficiency the minimum number of wavelengths needed to maintain diagnostic accuracy are determined. Data from fewer wavelengths are retained for training and cross validation as described above and the sensitivity and specificity are calculated. The number of wavelengths is varied until the minimum number of wavelengths required to maintain both sensitivity and specificity to within 5 of the numbers of the original training set is determined.

Probe receiving locations of biological sample containment and illumination apparatus allow parallel illumination of multiple sample sites by multiple electromagnetic radiation probes . The following paragraphs explain implementations of the subject matter described herein.

One exemplary electromagnetic radiation probe includes a circular bundle of 19 optical fibers which deliver white light to the specimen surrounded by a ring of 4 fibers which collect light from the tissue and transmit it to a spectrograph which disperses the broadband light into its component wavelengths and projects it onto a low noise cooled CCD camera. This arrangement is currently used to survey a single site approximately a few mm on the tissue and results in very high signal to noise SNR 10000 over 0.1 second integration at 500 nm which is approximately the center wavelength of the region of interest 350 600 nm . In the proposed imaging device see the light is launched into multiple sites on the surface of the tissue by single fibers. Assuming 200 m sized illumination fibers a total of approximately 200 fibers can be coupled to the illumination monochromator slit thus being able to theoretically illuminate approximately 200 sites on the tissue surface. It should be noted that the light in each fiber is split into its component wavelengths before being launched into the tissue. Then light is collected by single fibers one or more adjacent to each illumination fiber and transmitted to a CCD where they are imaged without spectral dispersion.

The maximum number of fibers that can be imaged on a given CCD chip is determined by the size of the divergent image on the CCD chip and the size and number of pixels on the chip. Assuming 200 m fibers with a numerical aperture of 0.22 and collimated such that the divergence is 0.3 then for the commercial CCD system currently used this corresponds to a fiber image diameter of approximately 270 m at the CCD chip. Using the specs of this CCD and the above calculation it is conservatively estimated that 1000 individual fibers can be resolved on a 512 512 CCD chip with 24 m square pixel size. If 200 illumination fibers are used the maximum allowable as determined by the light source then this corresponds to a maximum of 5 collection fibers per illumination fiber.

Since the plan is to reduce the overall number of illumination and collection fibers at each site for parallel processing care must be taken to ensure that it is possible to measure optical signals with reasonable SNR. A throughput analysis is performed to determine SNR for a single illumination fiber and up to 5 collection fibers for each site so that the overall SNR of each measurement site is at least 100. Based on the current SNR of the device this should be an achievable goal. The throughput of the imaging device is further enhanced by the acquisition of a back illuminated UV enhanced CCD chip which has three fold increased quantum efficiency over the shorter wavelength range of interest than the current CCD 60 versus 

Assuming that the imaging device has the capability to simultaneously image 200 sites the next step is to determine the spacing between these channels on the lumpectomy specimen. One important criterion is the minimum distance between adjacent measurement sites that eliminates cross talk between adjacent channels due to tissue scattering. Monte Carlo simulations Wang et al. 1995 47 131 146 and Liu et al. 2003 8 223 236 are performed to simulate the spatial distribution of diffusely reflected light on the tissue surface and are carried out for the lowest absorption and highest scattering coefficient expected in normal and malignant tissues the worst case scenario for cross talk . The intensity of diffusely reflected light decays exponentially from the center of the illumination fiber. The distance corresponding to the surface remitted intensity decaying to 1 e of the initial source intensity is chosen as the minimum distance allowable between adjacent measurement sites. Once the minimum separation is established then the coverage based on sampling 200 discrete sites is determined.

The imaging device can be constructed as follows. The existing xenon lamp monochromator combination in the present instrumentation is used to provide a range of wavelengths one wavelength at a time over the visible wavelength range. Then a bundle of optical fibers is interfaced to the light exiting the monochromator. The individual fibers are separated at the distal end at the sample such that each fiber illuminates one discrete site on the specimen. The proximal end of the collection fibers are interfaced to a CCD camera. Margin imaging is performed by selecting a single wavelength with the monochromator acquiring an image of the collection fibers on the CCD with an integration time set to achieve an SNR of at least 100 then repeating the process by scanning the monochromator over all of the desired wavelengths. This allows optical spectra to be measured from multiple sites on the face of the specimen in parallel greatly decreasing the time required for margin analysis and creating a more efficient measurement procedure. The major modification to the existing system is replacement of the existing fiber optic probe with an imaging bundle and replacement of the current CCD camera with a back illuminated CCD chip to accommodate as many collection fibers as possible.

After construction of the imaging device it is tested on synthetic tissue phantoms to ascertain its performance. Liquid tissue phantoms composed of polystyrene spheres as scatterer and variable concentrations of hemoglobin as absorber are constructed with optical properties approximating those found in normal benign and malignant breast tissues Palmer et al. 2006 45 1072 1078 . Diffuse reflectance images are acquired with the device and the resulting SNR is determined for a range of optical properties. Illumination power and integration time are adjusted until the system reaches the set benchmarks for SNR. Then the Monte Carlo model is used to extract the absorption and scattering properties of the phantom site by site. Following satisfactory performance of the system on tissue phantoms the device is then applied to lumpectomy specimens from patients undergoing BCS. A total of 5 patients are recruited to participate in this feasibility study. After resection of the specimen the optical imaging device is used to collect an optical property map of the tissue one face at a time. The ease of use speed and SNR of the device are determined from this preliminary testing.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

