---

title: Systems and methods for social media data mining
abstract: Systems and methods are provided to collect, analyze and report social media aggregated from a plurality of social media websites. Social media is retrieved from social media websites, analyzed for sentiment, and categorized by topic and user demographics. The data is then archived in a data warehouse and various interfaces are provided to query and generate reports on the archived data. In some embodiments, the system further recognizes alert conditions and sends alerts to interested users. In some embodiments, the system further recognizes situations where users can be influenced to view a company or its products in a more favorable light, and automatically posts responsive social media to one or more social media websites.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262517&OS=09262517&RS=09262517
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09262517
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100818
---
At least some embodiments disclosed herein relate in general to systems that collect information available over the Internet and more particularly to collecting data from social networking sites and providing tools to query and analyze such information.

Websites that allow users to interact with one another have exploded in popularity in the last few years. Social networking websites such as Facebook and LinkedIn and microblogging websites such as Twitter enjoy widespread use. Millions of users post messages images and videos on such websites on a daily even hourly basis oftentimes reporting events on a real time or near time basis and revealing the user s activities and interests. Users typically direct messages to specific persons their social group or perhaps businesses maintaining a presence on social networking websites however oftentimes such messages are visible to the general public.

Such publicly accessible social media represents a potentially rich mine of information that can provide insight into user s lives and events across the country and across the world. Such information could be of great interest to various types of business organizations. For example a network provider may wish to track all messages describing network problems across the country on a real time basis. In another example a national hotel chain may wish to track all messages relating to its hotel services and in particular messages reporting problems experienced by hotel guests. The sheer volume of such information however and the velocity of its flow presents formidable difficulties for persons or organizations that wish to track and analyze such information.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

Reference in this specification to social media should be understood to refer to any type of electronically stored information that users send or make available to other users for the purpose of interacting with other users in a social context. Such media can include directed messages status messages broadcast messages audio files image files and video files. Reference in this specification to social media websites should be understood to refer to any website that facilitates the exchange of social media between users. Examples of such websites include social networking websites such as Facebook and LinkedIn and microblogging websites such as Twitter.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein collect and enrich social media gathered from a plurality of social media websites and provide various interfaces and reporting functions to allow end users to track topics within such enriched social media. illustrates a high level view of a social media analysis service in the context of a network of users and social media sources. A plurality of users interact with one another via a plurality of social media websites such as for example social networking and microblogging websites.

A social media analysis service hosts one or more social media analysis servers that collect social media from social media websites and enrich and store such social media in one or more social media data warehouse databases . The social media analysis servers provide one or more user interfaces that allow social media analysis consumers to view and analyze aggregated social media stored on the social media data warehouse databases . Such consumers could include any type of business that has an interest in the content of social media. In one embodiment the social media analysis service and the social media analysis consumers could be within a single organization. In one embodiment the social media analysis service and the social media analysis consumers could be separate entities.

The social media analysis server comprises a number of modules that provide various functions related to social media collection analysis. In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes a data collection module that collects social media from social media websites . In one embodiment the data collection module collects social media that relates to company interests such as for example posts that reference the company by name posts that relate to specific topics and or posts that relate to specific users.

In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes a sentiment analysis module that attempts to determine the nature of the sentiments such as tone and mood expressed by users in social media posts. In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes a social data categorization module that categorizes social media postings by for example topic company mood or tone. In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes user categorization module that categorizes users for example by various demographic characteristics or usage patterns. In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes a data archiving module that archives collected social media in the internal data warehouse in association with user profiles and user social connections of users relating to the social media. In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes a data processing and labeling module that labels social media data with various tags such as categories determined by the social data categorization module and the user categorization module . In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes a data indexing module that indexes archived social media by one or more properties. Such properties could include for example key words user sentiments or user demographics. In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes an influencing module that posts data to social media websites in response to the occurrence of influencing conditions in archived social media to influence users of such social media websites.

In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes a data search module that provides facilities allowing users to search archived social media using search criteria such as for example one or more keywords or key phrases. In one embodiment the server includes a trending and alert module that identifies conditions in social media that users have selected for alerts for example degradation in network performance.

In one embodiment the social media analysis server includes a data visualization and summarization module that allows social data analysis consumers to query social media archived in the internal data warehouse . In one embodiment the data visualization and summarization module uses the aggregated social media along with associated archived user profile information and user social connections to support high level business intelligence through data mining. In one embodiment data visualization and summarization functions provide facilities to visualize the trend of the archived posts and categorized topics social media trends with internal business data and correlated posts from similar topics for intelligence mining. In one embodiment the output of data mining and analysis is stored on a database and indexed by the data archiving module along with archived posts user profiles and user social connection to support expanded search capabilities. In one embodiment the visualization and summarization module provides various views into the aggregated social media as shown in below. Such visualized information can be used to guide to business operations customer care public relations and marketing to engage in social media conversation for better communications with customers and consumers.

Other interfaces are possible. For example the interface could display user sentiment relating to a topic in a format similar to an election map. The map could for example reflect a map of the United States reflecting sentiment by state. States reflecting predominantly negative sentiments could be colored red states reflecting predominantly positive sentiments could be colored green and states reflecting predominantly neutral sentiments could be colored white. Alternatively the interface could express various sentiments as patterns such as shading and cross hatching.

In block a process running on a server analyzes the social media to determine the user s sentiment mood or purpose in posting the social media. In one embodiment the process detects user sentiment in social media by recognizing positive words such as awesome rock love and beat and negative words such as hate stupid and fail. The correlation between a sentiment and key word could vary by source. In one embodiment the process collects and archives only social media posts that express an opinion. In one embodiment the process collects and archives posts expressing an opinion only if a fixed number for example three of posts express the same opinion. In one embodiment a sentiment analysis module such as element of hosted on a social media analysis server performs the processing described with respect to block .

In block a process running on a server analyzes the social media to categorize the media by one or more topics. Such topics could include brand e.g. Honda or Coca Cola product type car or SUV or product quality good bad or unreliable . Such topics could be predefined or the process could determine topics dynamically by consolidating social media posts from multiple users. In one embodiment the process could use such topics to cluster social media posts as shown in . In one embodiment the process could assign specific topics a priority or importance. For example the process could assign a topic such as network outage a higher priority than slow response. In one embodiment a social data categorization module such as element of hosted on a social media analysis server performs the processing described with respect to block .

In block a process running on a server analyzes the user posting the social media to categorize users associated with each post by one or more demographic categories. Such categories could include age income level and interests e.g. classical music or cross country skiing . Such categories could include user location e.g. city state or region . The process could determine such information from user profile data or from the content of social media posts. The process could determine such information by mining a user s social network e.g. the user s friends on Facebook etc. In one embodiment a user categorization module such as element of hosted on a social media analysis server performs the processing described with respect to block . In one embodiment the processing of block additionally includes determining the influence of individual users within their demographic group.

In block a process running on a server archives the social media to a computer readable medium. The process could store the social media on any type of database known in the art such as for example a relational database. The database could include all or a subset of the data collected in the operation described above with respect to block . For example the process could only archive data relating to specific entities e.g. XYZ and or topics network or customer service . In one embodiment a data archiving module such as element of hosted on a social media analysis server performs the processing described with respect to block .

In one embodiment in addition to archiving social media with high precision and recall the system archives user profiles and the social connections of the users associated with the social media along with the social media. In one embodiment the processing of block collects all such information. Additionally or alternatively the processing of block includes retrieving the user profiles and social connections of users relating to the archived social media.

In block a process running on a server indexes the archived social media by one or more properties. The process indexes the data to allow for efficient retrieval of social media by its properties. Such properties could include for example key words user sentiments or user demographics. In one embodiment a data indexing module such as element of hosted on a social media analysis server performs the processing described with respect to block .

In block a process running on a server posts data to social media websites to influence users of the social media websites. In one embodiment the processing of block includes determining to what extent archived social media is crucial to targeted businesses measuring the influence of relevant posts within the archived social media and predicting the influence of newly archived social media. In one embodiment where the processing determines that newly archived social media indicates an opportunity to influence users the system can post new media to social media sites to attempt to influence users.

The process could influence users in a number of ways. The process could influence users by including posts to improve the perception of a company s customer service. For example if a user posts a tweet reporting slow response time on a network the process could post a tweet that indicates that the network provider is aware of the problem and is working on it. The process could influence users by including posts to increase demand for a company s services. For example if a user posts a tweet reporting poor customer service by a competitor the process could post a tweet suggesting the user try the company s service offerings. In one embodiment an influencing module such as element of hosted on a social media analysis server performs the processing described with respect to block .

In block a process running on a server analyzes archived social media to determine if alert conditions have occurred. For example where a user posts a tweet reporting slow response time on a network the process could send an operations center an alert e.g. an email or a text message indicating that an alert condition has occurred e.g. slow network response time . Any type of condition such as a customer complaint could trigger an alert to a business unit within a company that is best suited to respond to the alert. In one embodiment a trending and alert module such as element of hosted on a social media analysis server performs the processing described with respect to block . In one embodiment the processing in block monitors trends of the archived posts and categorized topics and issues alerts when suspicious indicators appear based on statistical models or patterns.

In the data processing system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller and display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s . Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory and volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In one embodiment the social media analysis servers are implemented using one or more data processing systems as illustrated in . In some embodiments one or more servers of the system illustrated in are replaced with the service of a peer to peer network or a cloud configuration of a plurality of data processing systems or a network of distributed computing systems. The peer to peer network or cloud based server system can be collectively viewed as a server data processing system.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented via the microprocessor s and or the memory . For example the functionalities described above can be partially implemented via hardware logic in the microprocessor s and partially using the instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the microprocessor s without additional instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the instructions stored in the memory for execution by one or more general purpose microprocessor s . Thus the disclosure is not limited to a specific configuration of hardware and or software.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system middleware service delivery platform SDK Software Development Kit component web services or other specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. Invocation interfaces to these routines can be exposed to a software development community as an API Application Programming Interface . The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others.

In general a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides e.g. stores information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

