---

title: Three-dimensional integrated circuit
abstract: A three-dimensional integrated circuit comprising a submicroscale integrated-circuit substrate and n nanoscale layers stacked above the submicroscale integrated-circuit substrate, a nanowire-junction memory element in each of which is independently controlled by two submicroscale subcomponents within the submicroscale integrated-circuit substrate, the first submicroscale subcomponent coupled through a first set of switches to each of the n nanowire-junction memory elements and the second submicroscale subcomponent coupled through a second set of switches to each of the n nanowire-junction memory elements, the total number of switches in the first and second sets of switches less than 2n, and n greater than or equal to 2.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08780601&OS=08780601&RS=08780601
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08780601
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100608
---
This invention has been made with Government support under Contract No. HR0011 09 3 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is related to three dimensional electronic circuitry and in particular to three dimensional integrated circuits comprising multiple nanowire crossbar memories layered above a traditional microscale or submicroscale integrated circuit.

Integrated circuits and integrated circuit technologies including the complementary metal oxide semiconductor integrated circuit fabrication technology CMOS represent the backbone of modern electronics. Integrated circuit microprocessors are the computing engines for modern computer systems which use integrated circuit electronic memories for storing data processed and produced by microprocessors. Special purpose integrated circuits are employed as controllers in a wide variety of consumer products from appliances and automobiles to cell phones cameras and children s toys.

Relentless increases in the densities of circuitry and decreases in the sizes of signal lines and other circuit elements fabricated within integrated circuits are largely driven by the need to produce ever faster and more capable microprocessors for computer systems. In general improvements in microprocessor integrated circuits and technologies for designing and manufacturing microprocessor integrated circuits are quickly assimilated into the design and manufacture of the various types of integrated circuits used in all of the other types of devices and systems that employ integrated circuits providing a large market eager for each new generation of integrated circuit technology.

The photolithography based methods currently employed to manufacture integrated circuits are associated with certain physical constraints that may limit the degree to which traditional integrated circuit technology can continue to be improved. As the dimensions of signal lines transistors and other electronic components of submicroscale circuitry further decrease the reliability with which such components can be manufactured and with conventional photolithography based methods is also decreasing resulting in decreasing yields of functional integrated circuits during manufacturing and problems associated with the operational characteristics of integrated circuits. Below certain dimensions the behavior of electrons and electron currents is increasingly governed by quantum mechanics and uncertainties in electron position and momentum translate into difficulties in designing and fabricating tiny electronic components that operate in compliance with desired models and behaviors developed for larger scale components. For this reason new nanoscale technologies including nanowire crossbar arrays have been developed in order to push densities of memory storage elements to much greater levels than can be achieved by current photolithography based fabrication techniques. Nanowire crossbars can be fabricated using nanoscale imprint lithography molecular self assembly and other techniques that are not constrained by diffraction limits of electromagnetic radiation which constrain photolithography. Designers manufacturers and ultimately users of electronic devices and systems based on integrated circuits and integrated circuit memories continue to seek further improvements in processor speeds and memory densities using these newer technologies including nanowire crossbar arrays combined with traditional photolithography based integrated circuits.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to three dimensional integrated circuits comprising one or more layers of circuitry fabricated by traditional photolithography methods such as microscale and or submicroscale CMOS circuitry above which multiple layers of nanowire crossbar arrays are layered to form multiple layers of electronic memory within the three dimensional integrated circuit. Microscale components have at least one dimension of less than a fixed number of micrometers such as 500 m or 100 m or 10 m. Submicroscale components have at least one dimension of less than 1 micrometer. Nanoscale components have at least one dimension of less than a fixed number of nanometers such as 50 nm or 10 nm. Such three dimensional integrated circuits that combine both traditional photolithography fabricated circuitry and newer nanowire crossbar array take advantage of the precision and logical complexity provided by CMOS circuitry and other traditional photolithography fabricated circuitry with the much higher data storage densities provided by nanowire crossbar arrays.

While illustrates a single nanowire junction and while it may appear straightforward to interconnect nanowires with underlying CMOS circuitry in order to read and write individual nanowire junctions from it is in fact difficult to devise a three dimensional integrated circuit to provide addressability of all of the memory elements in a multi layer integrated circuit such as that shown in . illustrates the relative differences in scale and density of the CMOS layer and nanowire crossbar layers of a three dimensional integrated circuit that represents one embodiment of the present invention. In a small portion of the top most nanowire crossbar level of the three dimensional integrated circuit is shown to include a dense two sublayer array formed by two sets of parallel nanowires the nanowires in the two sets oriented approximately orthogonal to one another. is intended to show the contrast between the high density and extremely small feature size of the memory elements within the portion nanowire crossbar array as opposed to the feature size and density of the corresponding portion of the CMOS layer represented by the single driver and sensor discussed above with reference to needed to address a single nanowire junction memory element. While the problem of addressing a single nanowire crossbar array such as layer in can be addressed by careful design and construction of CMOS demultiplexer circuitry and other components addressing multiple densely fabricated nanowire crossbar levels from a single CMOS substrate presents a significant engineering challenge.

A first approach is shown in . As shown in a single driver and a single sensor in the CMOS layer are interconnected with a nanowire in each nanowire crossbar level. The single driver and sensor can be used to access individually each nanowire junction such as nanowire junction in a vertical column of nanowire junctions that spans the multiple nanowire crossbar layers. As shown in both a driver and sensor are connected to the multiple nanowires through a bank of switches and respectively. Closing one switch in the bank of switches interconnected with the driver and closing a single corresponding switch in the bank of switches interconnected with the sensor selects one particular nanowire junction from among the nanowire junctions in the column of nanowire junctions that span the nanowire crossbar levels. While this first approach effectively extends control of a single driver and sensor over an entire column of nanowire junctions the technique does so at the expense of fabrication of two banks of switches that each includes a switch for each nanowire junction in the column of nanowire junctions .

Although the present invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments it is not intended that the invention be limited to these embodiments. Modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example any of the above mentioned parameters including the dimensions of individual nanowires the organization of the individual nanowires within a nanowire sublayer and the orientation of two nanowire sublayers within a nanowire crossbar level can be varied to produce nanowire crossbar levels that provide a desired level of interconnectability with the underlying CMOS substrate and at the same time providing sufficient number of open spaces for interconnection of other nanowire crossbar levels to the CMOS substrate independently of a given nanowire crossbar level. Any of a variety of different technologies can be used to implement the one or more underlying integrated circuit substrates including the CMOS technology with any of a wide variety of different logic circuit contents functionalities and geometries. Nanowire crossbar layers can be fabricated by nanoscale imprint lithography assembly and other methods the nanowires and the nanowire junctions may comprise any of various different metal metal oxide and organic polymer substances.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purpose of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

