---

title: Information viewing stem
abstract: According to one embodiment, an information viewing system includes an ontology viewing engine coupled to a client and a knowledge store that stores records organized according to a domain ontology. The ontology viewing engine receives requests for records from the client, filters the domain ontology according to a display ontology, generates a graphical user interface (GUI) according to the display ontology including the requested records, and transmits the GUI to the client through an application programming interface of the GUI.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08219540&OS=08219540&RS=08219540
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 08219540
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100225
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 208 767 entitled INFORMATION VIEWING SYSTEM which was filed on Feb. 26 2009. U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 208 767 is hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to computing storage systems and more particularly to an information viewing system that organizes data stored in databases according to an ontological model.

Databases organize data records in storage devices such as hard disk drives tape drives or other memory components of a computing system. Due to the wide variance in the structure of data differing type of data models such as relational data models conceptual data models or physical data models have been developed to organize data in a specific format. The metadata data model is one particular type that has been implemented for use with various types of web resources and may provide a structure for linking elements of data with one another.

According to one embodiment an information viewing system includes an ontology viewing engine coupled to a client and a knowledge store that stores records organized according to a domain ontology. The ontology viewing engine receives requests for records from the client filters the domain ontology according to a display ontology generates a graphical user interface GUI according to the display ontology including the requested records and transmits the GUI to the client through an application programming interface of the GUI.

Some embodiments of the disclosure may provide numerous technical advantages. For example one embodiment of the information viewing system may provide a re usable platform for viewing differing types of information by any one of a number of differing client applications. The ontological model from which the records are organized may be derived from aspects that may be common to differing types of data. For example personnel associated with a particular organization may be an interesting aspect of several differing types or organizations. Thus the ontological model may be applied to differing types of client applications to organize available data associated with each organization into a form that provides efficient use of the data.

Some embodiments may benefit from some none or all of these advantages. Other technical advantages may be readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art.

It should be understood at the outset that although example implementations of embodiments are illustrated below various embodiments may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not. The present disclosure should in no way be limited to the example implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below. Additionally the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale.

The resource description framework RDF is a specification that applies conceptual modeling techniques to provide a structure for data in which its elements may be linked with one another according to their relationship. Such data structures may provide enhanced utility by improving search capabilities and or developing a context from which to infer other aspects of information that may not be included in the data while in its raw form.

RDF databases have been developed that store data according to the RDF specification. Access to data from these databases is provided by a RDF query language commonly referred to as the SPARQL query language. In each case application software written to access data from RDF databases typically includes appropriate software code written according to the SPARQL query language. Data stored in RDF databases however is not typically structured in an easily displayable form. Thus development of differing software applications may require an undesirable duplication of effort to map data structured according to the RDF specification in a presentable displayable format.

Certain embodiments of information viewing system that generates a GUI comprising a display structure for data formatted according to RDF specifications may provide enhanced benefit over data that is retrieved directly from knowledge store . For example ontology display engine may have a specified ontological structure that provides for re use by differing types of clients . Thus the development time required for new types of clients may be reduced by using the display structure provided by ontology display engine for presentation of data from knowledge store .

Certain embodiments of ontology display engine may also provide enhanced searching capabilities using relevant aspects of the stored data. Although knowledge store provides data using a linked structured form it may not necessarily provide access to the data according to its one or more useful aspects. For example data associated with a service outlet such as a hospital may be organized in several aspects that may be useful to users such as the number and type of doctors who practice there. Building inspectors on the other hand may be relatively more interested in other personnel who may be responsible for the structure and maintenance of the hospital building. The ontology from which the data is organized therefore may be structured to accommodate these various aspects of the hospital in a relatively accessible and or searchable manner.

In one embodiment information viewing system includes a summary data processing utility that generates summary data about records processed by ontology display engine . Summary data may include any type of information about records stored in knowledge store . That is summary data may include any abstracted characteristics of artifacts that may be relevant to a specific ontology. For example summary data generated by summary data processing utility may include a quantity of artifacts stored in records that fall into a particular category within knowledge store .

Data processing tools receive raw data from any one of a number of data sources and structures the data in a linkable form. In one embodiment data processing tools structure the data in a subject predicate object ontological model according to the RDF specification. Data structured according to the subject predicate object ontological model may be referred to as triples. As an example a raw data element comprising John has a convertible automobile may be parsed by a data processing tool into a triple including John the subject has the predicate and convertible automobile the object .

Any type of data processing tool may be implemented with information viewing system . Suitable types of data processing tools include the NETOWL software package available from SRA International Incorporated the TOPBRAID software suite of programming tools available from Topquadrant Incorporated and or any custom raw data parsing tool that parses raw data to conform to the RDF specification.

Knowledge store may be any suitable semantic reasoner that links data with one another and stores the parsed data in a structured linked format. In a particular embodiment in which data is parsed according to the RDF specification to form triples knowledge store may link triples according to their common subjects predicates or objects. Furthering the example cited above knowledge store may generate an structured list of artifacts people who own convertible automobiles another structured list of artifacts possessions owned by John and or even another structured list of artifacts objects with which John has an association. Thus knowledge store provides data in a linked structured form from which searches may be performed using a particular context to infer other aspects of information about the raw data. In one embodiment knowledge store comprises an OWLIM software package available from Ontotext AD located in Sofia Bulgaria.

Client receives the structured linked data structured in a GUI from ontology display engine and displays it for consumption by a user. In one embodiment client comprises a user interface that displays the GUI provided by ontology display engine . The user interface may include a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD and one or more input device such as a keyboard and or mouse that provides interaction of the user with ontology display engine . In another embodiment client may comprise another executable application that receives the GUI generated by ontology display engine and performs one or more additional operations on the linked data presented inside. For example client may comprise a web application that operates as an online retail outlet for certain products in which the web application accesses ontology display engine to display certain aspects of products offered by its website.

Ontology display engine and summary data processing utility is stored in a memory of a suitable computing system and executed by a processor coupled to the memory . Computing system may generally be adapted to execute any of the known OS2 UNIX Mac OS Linux and Windows Operating Systems or other operating systems. Computing system in this embodiment comprises a processor and a memory . In other embodiments computing system may include more less or other component parts.

Certain embodiments of ontology display engine and or summary data processing utility may include logic contained within a medium. Logic may include hardware software and or other logic. Logic may be encoded in one or more tangible media and may perform operations when executed by a computer. Certain logic such as the processor may manage the operation of the computing system . Examples of the processor include one or more microprocessors one or more applications and or other logic. Certain logic may include a computer program software computer executable instructions and or instructions capable being executed by computing system . In particular embodiments the operations of the embodiments may be performed by one or more computer readable media storing embodied with and or encoded with a computer program and or having a stored and or an encoded computer program. The logic may also be embedded within any other suitable medium without departing from the scope of the invention.

The logic may be stored on a medium such as memory . Memory may comprise one or more tangible computer readable and or computer executable storage medium. Examples of the memory include computer memory for example Random Access Memory RAM or Read Only Memory ROM mass storage media for example a hard disk removable storage media for example a Compact Disk CD or a Digital Video Disk DVD database and or network storage for example a server and or other computer readable medium.

Although the illustrated embodiment provides one embodiment of a computing system that may be used with other embodiments such other embodiments may additionally utilize computers other than general purpose computers as well as general purpose computers without conventional operating systems. Additionally embodiments may also employ multiple general purpose computers or other computers networked together in a computer network. For example multiple general purpose computers or other computers may be networked through the Internet and or in a client server network. Embodiments may also be used with a combination of separate computer networks each linked together by a private or a public network.

In a particular embodiment geo spatial map utility may comprise a GoogleEarth Desktop software package that operates as a thick client or a GoogleEarth browser plug in that operates as a thin client and is executable in conjunction with a commonly available web browser such as a Firefox or an Internet Explorer web browser. Geo spatial map utilities such as these may interface with geo spatial server having a web mapping service WMS that receives requests for geo spatial information and services responses to the requests by accessing the desired geo spatial information from geo spatial database . In one embodiment ontology display engine may be implemented as a web application with a web application API that interfaces with geo spatial map utility . With this configuration information viewing system may be implemented in a distributed fashion over a network using the GoogleEarth Desktop or GoogleEarth browser plug in that are provided as commercial off the shelf COTS products.

In one embodiment primary properties in subject viewing portion and secondary properties in object viewing portion comprise hyperlinks to other records stored in knowledge store . Thus users may access other records related to those displayed in main window to obtain additional information related to information provided by the displayed records. In another embodiment knowledge store stores each record with a unique uniform resource locator URI tag that uniquely identifies its associated record. Thus records may be associated with one another using their URI tag.

The particular screenshot shown displays records associated with several medical facilities that are located in a particular geographical region. Thus subject viewing portion may include primary properties including labels representing medical facilities while object viewing portion may include secondary properties associated with each primary property. Summary portion includes summary information about the primary properties which in this example include the quantity of first aid facilities and the quantity of medical clinics.

Map portion displays a geo spatial map generated by the geo spatial map utility of . Ontology display engine generates tags representing the geographical location of primary properties displayed in subject viewing portion . In one embodiment tags may comprise hyperlinks to additional information about its associate primary property.

In one embodiment map window includes an expanded tag that displays additional information associated with its primary property. In another embodiment expanded tag may display a hyperlink for accessing other records associated with the particular record.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to information viewing system without departing from the scope of the disclosure. The components of information viewing system may be integrated or separated. For example data source may be a single repository that forms an integral portion of computing system or data source may be a repository external to computing system such as the Internet. Moreover the operations of information viewing system may be performed by more fewer or other components. For example main window may include other window portions that may enhance view of records such another window portion that may include metadata associated with each record displayed in subject viewing window portion . Additionally operations of ontology display engine may be performed using any suitable logic comprising software hardware and or other logic.

Although the present disclosure has been described with several embodiments a myriad of changes variations alterations transformations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes variations alterations transformation and modifications as they fall within the scope of the appended claims.

