---

title: Method and system for connecting an insured to an insurer using a mobile device
abstract: A system and method for connecting an insured to an insurer using a mobile device in order to provide insurance services. The mobile device, which is associated with the insured, includes a mobile insurance module that is in communication with a server insurance module of a server, which is associated with the insurer. Together, the mobile insurance module and the server insurance module establish a communication channel with the insurer over which insurance services (e.g., requesting a quote, buying a policy, filing a claim and reviewing account information) are provided. The communication channel leverages the technological capabilities of the mobile device, such as a smart phone, to deliver data in a fast, efficient and integrated manner having robust functionalities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08401878&OS=08401878&RS=08401878
owner: 
number: 08401878
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100106
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 142 665 filed on Jan. 6 2009 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates to a method and system for connecting insureds to insurers using a mobile device. In particular the present invention relates to a method and system for connecting insureds more closely to insurers by leveraging the most technically advanced mobile smart phone technology such as the Apple iPhone.

Currently an insured or potential customer hereinafter the insured must call an insurance company or carrier hereinafter the insurer to make an inquiry modify an existing policy or report a loss. The insured will provide some preliminary information such as the insured s name policy number and the purpose of the communication and then be instructed to gather and or provide additional information specific to that interaction. The collection and processing of this information can be time consuming and complex involving many manual steps and duplicative actions on the part of the insured and the insurer.

As a result the known process of interaction of insureds with insurers causes extended timelines claim backlogs and delayed resolutions to the communication whether that entails forming a new policy modifying an existing policy settling a claim coordinating subrogation or the like. It is known that such delays have numerous negative effects on the insurance system. For instance the insurer s ability to capture a potential customer as a new insured and the satisfaction of the insured with the insurer is impacted in part by the length and complexity of the interactions. In addition the insurer s liability exposure on a claim increases as the amount of time between filing and resolution of the claim increases. There is a need for a means of enabling insureds and insurers to interact in a faster and more streamlined manner.

The known interaction of insureds and insurers also consumes a significant amount of resources. In particular the lengthy resolution of interactions diverts resources away from selling new business improving the insured s experience with the insurer and improving the operation of the insurer. For instance resources expended by the insurer on customer service and claim handling cannot be used to sell new business and retain existing insureds. As a result there are few incentives to effectively perform customer service claim handling and routine maintenance tasks. There is a need for a means of reducing the amount of resources expended by the insureds and particularly the insurers to interact with one another.

The known interaction of insureds and insurers also results in duplicative actions on the part of the insured and the insurer. In particular during a typical interaction over the telephone the insured verbally states information to a customer service representative a claim handler or another representative hereinafter an agent of the insurer who transcribes the stated information for instance into a computer program. Verbal transmission of information is slow inaccurate and can result in a negative experience for the insured. There is a need for a means of enabling the insured and the insurer to interact with less verbal transmission of information.

However some verbal interaction is necessary and even desirable. The known interaction of insureds and insurers is verbally intensive and although some information can be gathered automatically or using a touch tone phone entry system such as a call directory or an authorization system there is an inherent inaccuracy or degree of imprecision in these systems that must be corrected verbally. In addition verbal communication provides an opportunity for personal contact that fosters loyalty and trust. There is a need for a means of enabling the insured and the insurer to interact in a more accurate and precise manner that emphasizes loyalty and trust building exchanges.

The known interaction of insureds and insurers also relies upon a variety of communication channels. Telephones play a central role in connecting the insureds and insurers but are not capable of transmitting all required information. For instance photographs of a loss such as a car accident and copies of invoices for repairs or replacements relating to the loss may need to be mailed through the post or transmitted via facsimile. Using a variety of communication channels increases the complexity of administering the information flow between the insureds and insurers. There is a need for a means of enabling the insured and the insurer to interact through a unified communication channel that can transmit all or nearly all required information.

The object of the present invention is therefore to provide an improved system for connecting insureds and insurers which among other desirable attributes significantly reduces or overcomes the above mentioned deficiencies of prior interactions.

Accordingly the present invention provides a method and system for connecting insureds more closely to insurers by leveraging the most technically advanced mobile smartphone technology such as the Apple iPhone to deliver services to the point at which they are needed most.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers using a mobile device such as a smart phone.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system including an insurance software application designed for smart phone mobile devices with a phone mode a voice recorder mode a short message service SMS text mode an e mail mode a digital camera mode a digital video recording mode a photograph gallery mode a video gallery mode a global positioning system GPS mode and other input devices such as a touch screen in a coordinated and insurance policy directed manner.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers wirelessly in real time from almost any location at any time of day.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds to the insurers to access services when and where they are needed most.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds to the insurers to enable the insured to be in constant multifaceted contact with a knowledgeable agent of the insurer substantially immediately after an accident or loss.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers to enable an insured to access services and information spanning the entire insurance relationship including policy quotes policy formation asset policy and insurance information policy coverages and limit information payment billing and accounting information and claim status information.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers in a timely and streamlined manner.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers to accomplish tasks that were previously time and labor intensive or could only be achieved through written communications a phone call during working hours to an agent or insurer and recently to a lesser extent using a personal computer.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers immediately via the mobile device to enable an insured who suffers a loss to access an agent of the insurer who will provide advice and support to the insured at the scene of the accident or loss.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers in an efficient manner.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers in a manner that enables a maximum amount of information to be transmitted via digital text and photographic formats.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers using a unified communication channel capable of transmitting voice communications voice recordings SMS text messages e mails digital photographs digital video recordings and GPS information.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers in a manner that accurately and precisely directs the insured to the proper agent of the insurer and provides the agent with information specific to the insured s communication.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers in a manner that enhances verbal interactions by emphasizing loyalty and trust building exchanges.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insurers and in particular young automobile policy holder insureds who have statistically high accident rates are the customers who tend to be early adopters of new technology and in a manner that provides particular assurance to parents and guardians of the young insureds.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a system including a mobile device insurance software application that allows the insured of a property casualty insurer to interact in an immediate online mode with the insurer to access services that the insured needs most at the time and location when they are needed. The insured can access services with or without the assistance of a representative of the insurer. By way of example the insured can report an automobile or home loss contemporaneously with and at the location of the loss. In some instances the insured s reporting can replace the need to send a representative of the insurer such as a claim investigator to the location of the loss. As a result small claims for instance can be settled immediately without the expenditure of significant resources.

As another example an insured can request a quick quote for a new policy which results in a binder. If the insured accepts the binder the insured is immediately provided with the agreed upon policy and an auto insurance identification card. Alternatively an insured can inquire about policy coverages quotes billing and claim status.

As another example at a home closing an insured can specify a new mortgagee and have a printable insurance identification card which is proof of insurance to complete the transaction.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers so that the insured can select an action button on a touch screen of the mobile device in order to request professional assistance that is specific to the current content of the touch screen display or the location of an accident or loss and or to be tracked remotely.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system that connects insureds and insurers so that the insured can capture digital images of an insurable vehicle property or asset and have the images securely archived. The images can be captured pre loss for instance at the time of requesting a quote on a new policy related to the vehicle property or asset or post loss for instance to report detailed information relating to the loss.

The method and system of the present invention combines four unique software components along with the features of the smart phone mobile device data from third party providers and insurance industry standards. The method and system of present invention amalgamates ACORD data structures wireless communications digital camera GPS and vehicle property and asset data from third party providers of information. Insurance inquiries and transactions that in known approaches require written or verbal communications between an insured and an insurer its agent or both can be completed without assistance or delay providing an immediate conclusion to the transaction.

Due in part to the technical efficiencies and interface of the present invention the economic benefits to the insurer are significant. The wireless device and its communication link are the financial responsibility of the insured and enable the insured to act in a self service mode that is intuitive friendly and uses a widely accepted interface with which the insured is already familiar. Furthermore the insurer accrues several other benefits including reduced customer service costs reduced payouts on filed claims increased accuracy of documentation of evidence regarding losses increased appeal to tech savvy more upwardly mobile and profitable insureds as well as other family policy holders increased insured satisfaction and loyalty and improved high profile market differentiation of the insurer.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method for connecting an insured to an insurer is provided. The method includes establishing a communication channel between an insured and an insurer using a mobile insurance module of a mobile device associated with the insured and a server insurance module of a server associated with the insurer and providing an insurance service across the communication channel.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method for providing an insurance service is provided. The method includes receiving using a server insurance module on a networked server of an insurer a request for an insurance service from a mobile insurance module on a mobile device determining using the server insurance module whether the request satisfies processing criteria and if so delivering using the server insurance module the insurance service to the mobile insurance module on the mobile device.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system for connecting an insured to an insurer is provided. The system includes a mobile device associated with an insured having a first processor and a first memory wherein the first memory has a mobile insurance module stored therein and a server associated with an insurer having a second processor and a second memory wherein the second memory has a server insurance module stored therein wherein the mobile insurance module and the server insurance module interact to perform a method for providing a insurance service.

These and other features of the present invention are described with reference to the drawings of preferred embodiments of a system for connecting an insured with an insurer using a mobile communication device. The illustrated embodiments of the system of the present invention are intended to illustrate but not limit the invention.

The present invention relates to a system for connecting a prospective or existing policy holder for instance an insured to an insurance company for instance an insurer using a communication network.

Referring to a communication network is shown. The communication network includes mobile devices that are owned and or operated by the insured. The mobile devices are smart phones such as an Apple iPhone that include memory in which software is stored a processor for processing the software and a user interface for allowing the insured to interact with the software. The user interface includes an output device such as an LCD screen and an input device such as a keyboard or a touch screen.

The mobile devices are in wireless communication with a wireless network such as a base station controller that connects the mobile devices to the Internet .

As illustrated in the Internet is also in communication with a secure network that connects the Internet to a networked server of the insurer. The networked server includes memory in which insurance software such as insurance models and insurance data such as insurer information and data is stored and a processor for processing the insurance software and insurance data. The networked server is connected to an insurer customer database in which insured information and data such as customer information and policy information is stored.

The Internet is also in communication with a web server farm that connects the Internet to a remote customer database . The local customer database includes memory in which insured information and data is stored.

Referring to the system of the present invention is shown. Referring additionally to the system includes a mobile insurance module such as the I m in Touch Phone Insurance Software module which is stored in the memory of the mobile device of the insured. Using the mobile insurance module the insured can connect to the insurer. The mobile insurance module is responsible for managing the dialogue between the insured and the insurer to capture data about the insured a vehicle property or asset owned or operated by the insured and an accident or loss relating to the vehicle property or asset of the insured. For example the mobile insurance module is capable of performing the following functions 

To enable the functions listed in Table 1 the mobile insurance module leverages the capabilities of the smart phone mobile device including phone mode voice recorder mode SMS text mode e mail mode digital camera mode digital video recording mode photograph gallery mode video gallery mode GPS mode and other input devices such as a touch screen which minimizes the effort to collect coordinate administer and manage the desired data. At a database level the mobile insurance module leverages the platform on which smart phone mobile devices operate including SQL databases and 3G standard resources.

The mobile insurance module also reports information to the insured for instance in response to an inquiry or quote request made by the insured. For instance the mobile insurance module includes a data getter for receiving data from the networked server and a data setter for transmitting data to the networked server . The data getter and the data setter are connected to the user interface of the mobile device .

In total the capabilities of the smart phone mobile device enables collection and transmission of all desired and required data relating to an accident or loss at the location of the accident and loss which in turn enables immediate resolution of the claim. This is particularly true for small claims e.g. the reporting of loss that is below a deductible of the policy for which limited processing resources are committed to auditing and processing the claim.

The mobile insurance module for example is installed on the Apple iPhone mobile device . Using Apple s proprietary iPhone SDK system Xcode Objective C Cocoa or the user interface which is a graphical user interface GUI collects information about the vehicle property or assets of the insured losses and new quote information. The mobile insurance module of the present invention utilizes the iPhone s capabilities to communicate to the networked server using HTTP protocol over the communication network . Communications are conducted using the industry standard web services model. The mobile device also uses the following iPhone Utility Frameworks to provide the mobile insurance module functionalities listed above in Table 1 including AudioToolbox Audio recording CoreFoundation provides C APIs CoreGraphics fundamental to the Mac OS X graphics and windowing environment CoreLocation GPS utilization Foundation Objective C classes that provide the infrastructure for object based applications OpenGLES Animation Graphics Library QuartzCore supports image processing and video image manipulation and UIKit infrastructure needed for creating iPhone applications. The libsqlite3.0.dylib SQLite Database access library is also utilized to provide the mobile insurance module functionalities listed above in Table 1.

Referring to the system also includes a web insurance module such as the I m in Touch Web Insurance Software module which is accessible on a website using a web browser on the mobile device or a computer. The web insurance module allows the insured to perform many of the functions of the mobile insurance module outside of the mobile insurance module environment. However the web insurance module can have the following additional functionality 

To enable the functions listed in Table 2 the web insurance module leverages the enhanced capabilities of web browsing in comparison to an application configured for use on the mobile device . For instance the web insurance module facilitates input of data to the system using a full keyboard a mouse and a large display. However in some embodiments the web insurance module may exclude some functionalities that have particular synergies with the mobile insurance module for instance the functionalities that relate to the phone mode the camera mode the video recorder mode the voice recorder mode and the GPS mode of the mobile device . Also provided that the mobile device has sufficient input processing and display resources the additional functions of the web insurance module can be included in the mobile insurance module .

The web insurance module is provided in a standard HTML interface. The web insurance module includes a data getter for receiving data from the networked server and a data setter for transmitting data to the networked server . The data getter and the data setter are connected via a web user interface controller ASPX through which the insured interacts with the system . More specifically the web insurance module accesses the middle tier of the application using industry standard web services models with HTTP protocol via Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and Representational State Transfer RESTful formats. For example the web user interface controller ASPX is a web enabled interface that leverages the Microsoft.NET Framework version 3.5 redistribution package in conjunction with Microsoft Internet Information Server 6.0.

The system also includes a server insurance module such as the I m in Touch Server Insurance Software module installed on the networked server and connected to the mobile insurance module and the web insurance module . The server insurance module is a primary interactive component of the present invention and includes a number of sub modules. For instance the server insurance module includes a database manager sub module . The database manager sub module is responsible for creating reading updating and deleting the application data which includes the profile vehicle property assets photographs videos policies losses quotes and contracts data of the insured. For instance the database manager sub module is capable of the following functionalities 

The database manager sub module utilizes Microsoft SQL Server Database to implement a related table based data structure with simple primary key and foreign key structure. Data is stored in the database manager sub module in a series of related tables providing database normalization and made accessible via a secure user password methodology over TCP IP.

Referring to a database scheme of the database manager sub module is shown. The database scheme includes an account table a carrier table a user table a user policy table a policy table a policy type table a policy items table an attribute table an attribute type table a property table a driver table a vehicle table a vehicle driver table a claim table a claim type table a claim status table a participant table a participant type table a media table a media type table a location table a location status table a coverage table a coverage type table a quote table and a quote status table which are related as shown in .

The account table holds basic name and address information associated the insured. For instance the account table includes the following data elements 

The account table is related to the carrier table the user table the user policy table the policy table the policy type table the policy items table the attribute table the property table the driver table the vehicle driver table the claim table the claim type table the claim status table the participant table the participant type table the media table the media type table the location table the location status table the coverage table the coverage type table the quote table and the quote status table .

The carrier table holds a list of the insurers that have registered with the system . For instance the carrier table includes the following data elements 

The user table holds basic name information about the insured and information that identifies the unique signature of the mobile device of the insured. The recognition of the mobile device as being associated with the insured authenticates access to the system and enables insurance services to be provided to the insured without the insured having to go through an identification process. In addition by recognizing the insured data associated with the insured such as policy vehicle property and asset and claim data can be gathered immediately. For instance the user table includes the following data elements 

The user policy table holds the relationship between the insured and the policy number associated with the insured. For instance the user policy table includes the following data elements 

The policy table holds high level policy information provided by the insurer related to the policy identifiers of the system . For instance the policy table includes the following data elements 

The policy type table holds a list of valid types of policy. For instance the policy type table includes the following data elements 

The policy items table holds a list of policy information relating to specific assets of the insured. For instance the policy items table includes the following data elements 

The attribute table holds a list of attribute value pairs that can be used to append the data collection. For instance the attribute table includes the following data elements 

The attribute type table holds a list of valid field types to be represented in the attribute value pair combinations. This table in particular varies between insurers. For instance the attribute type table includes the following data elements 

The property table holds the address including latitude and longitude of a property. For instance the property table includes the following data elements 

The driver table holds the address and personal information for each driver. For instance the driver table includes the following data elements 

The vehicle table holds descriptors for a vehicle of the insured. For instance the vehicle table includes the following data elements 

The vehicle driver table holds data that relates drivers to vehicles and the percentage of use of the vehicle for which each driver is responsible. For instance the vehicle driver table includes the following data elements 

The claim table holds data that relates all the data together for a specific claim. For instance the claim table includes the following data elements 

The claim type table contains a list of claim types and descriptions thereof. The claim type table in particular varies by insurer. For instance the claim type table includes the following data elements 

The claim status table contains a list of claim statuses and their descriptions. The claim status table in particular varies by insurer. For instance the claim status table includes the following data elements 

The participant table contains records about individuals and firms that were involved with a claim for instance other drivers witnesses investigators police officers rescue crews tow truck operators repairmen and repair facilities salesmen and replacement retailers doctors and the like. For instance the participant table includes the following data elements 

The participant type table contains a list of types of participants. For instance the participant type table includes the following data elements 

The media table holds metadata records of a media file. For instance the media table includes the following data elements 

The media type table holds contains a list of valid Media types. For instance the media type table includes the following data elements 

The location table holds geographic latitude and longitude records that can be associated with a media file and or a claim record. For instance the location table includes the following data elements 

The location status table holds a list of valid location statuses which in particular varies by insurer. For instance the location status table includes the following data elements 

The coverage table holds records of coverages associated with the policy of the insured. For instance the coverage table includes the following data elements 

The coverage type table holds a list of types of coverage. For instance the coverage type table includes the following data elements 

The quote table holds records of each quote requested and issued. For instance the quote table includes the following data elements 

The quote status table holds a list of valid quote statuses. For instance the quote status table includes the following data elements 

The server insurance module includes a transaction manager sub module that connects the server insurance module to the mobile insurance module and the web insurance module associated with the insured. The transaction manager sub module is responsible for managing the workflows that drive the primary application functions such as registering an insured generating a quote buying a policy requesting assistance and submitting a loss. For instance the transaction manager sub module is capable of the following functionalities 

To achieve the above listed capabilities the transaction manager sub module makes calls to the database manager sub module . Referring to a hierarchy of the database manager sub module tables that are accessed to register a new account with the system is illustrated. For instance the transaction manager sub module makes calls to the account table in addition to performing some initial administrative requests including requesting the generation of a user identification number cUserID and a transaction request date stamp dteDateStamp and allocating space in memory for a transaction reply date stamp dteDateStamp an address table and a status table . The address table holds data elements including a type of address cAddressType a first line of the address cAddress a second line of the address cAddress a city of the address cCity a state or province code cStateProvCd and a postal code cPostalCode . The status table includes a message identification number cMsgID a type of the request code cTypeCd a status of the registration code cStatusCd a description of the status of the registration code cStatusDesc and an error code cErrorCd . In entering and generating the account table data the transaction manager sub module makes alls to the account table which in turn makes calls to the vehicle table the driver table and the coverage table and to the status table which in turn makes calls to the account table the address table the driver table the vehicle table and the coverage table . Upon receiving or generating the required data for the tables listed above the transaction manager sub module completes the request for registration of the new user and commences the process of replying to the request for registration.

Referring to a hierarchy of the database manager sub module tables that are accessed in replying to the request for registration with the system is illustrated. For instance the transaction manager sub module makes calls to the status table of the request for registration in addition to performing some initial administrative requests including referencing the user identification number cUserID and the transaction request date stamp dteDateStamp and generating the transaction reply date stamp dteDateStamp . The transaction manager sub module also allocates space in memory for another status table which holds the same data elements as the status table .

Referring to a hierarchy of the database manager sub module tables that are accessed in submitting a first notice of loss FNOL to the system is illustrated. For instance the transaction manager sub module makes calls to the address table and the vehicle table and allocates space in memory for a vehicle claim table which holds data relating to a description of damage to the vehicle cDamageDesc an estimated amount of the damage cDamageEstimateAmt and a description of where the damage can be seen on the vehicle cWhereCanSeeDamage . The transaction manager sub module also references the policy number of the user cPolicylD generates a transaction request date stamp dteTransactionRequestDateTime and allocates space in memory for another status table which holds the same data elements as status table .

Referring to a hierarchy of the database manager sub module tables that are accessed in replying to the submitted first notice of loss FNOL to the system is illustrated. For instance the transaction manager sub module references the status table of the submitted first notice of loss and performs initial administrative requests including referencing the policy number of the user cPolicylD and the transaction request date stamp dteTransactionRequestDateTime and allocating space in memory for another status table which holds the same data elements as status table for the reply to the submitted first notice of loss.

The user interface of the insured or the insurer mirrors the data structure of the hierarchies illustrated in . For example each table can be displayed in a common data panel and more particularly on a tab specific to each table.

The transaction manager sub module leverages the Microsoft.NET Framework version 3.5 redistribution package and utilizes SOAP Basic Authentication.

Referring to the server insurance module includes an insurer integrator sub module . The insurer integrator sub module is responsible for connecting the server insurance module to the insurer requesting and receiving policy or claim data from databases of the insurer translating the response into a format that integrates with the system making calls to the database manager sub module to store the data and formatting the response to the insurer. For instance the insurer integrator sub module is capable of the following functionalities 

The insurer integrator sub module provides all of the processing required to interchange data with insurer. The data format of the interchanged data may be ACORD using XML a proprietary ASCII format or a mixture of both.

Requests for data made by the insured are either responded to in full substantially immediately or are acknowledged with a return receipt if review by an agent is required. The applications source of data for transmission and repository for received data is a SQL database of the system . All activity is logged for auditing and recovery.

The insurer integrator sub module leverages the Microsoft.NET Framework version 3.5 redistribution package in conjunction with ACORD 1.6 and utilizes SOAP Basic Authentication.

The server insurance module includes a third party integrator sub module . The third party integrator sub module is responsible for connecting to third party data and service providers translating the response into a format that integrates with the system and calling the database manager sub module to store the data. For instance the third party integrator sub module is capable of the following functionalities 

The third party integrator sub module utilizes data and services provided by third parties via a web service interface. The additional third party services are accessed via HTTP protocol using the industry standard web services model using SOAP and RESTful formats. In particular the third party integrator sub module leverages the Microsoft.NET Framework version 3.5 redistribution package and utilizes SOAP Basic Authentication. Third party service data calls are made both synchronously and asynchronously.

Referring to the system also includes a customer service representative insurance module such as the I m in Touch Customer Service Representative Insurance Software module connected to the transaction management sub module of the server insurance module . The customer service representative insurance module is a web based application that enables the agents of the insurer to interact with the system and in particular to view or update data close contracts assist in the completion of a quote or claim or otherwise service the needs of the insured. For instance the customer service representative insurance module is capable of the following functionalities 

The customer service representative insurance module is a secured terminal. The agent of the insurer must be authenticated before the customer service representative insurance module can access data such as account data of the insured stored in the database manager sub module .

Referring to the customer service representative insurance module includes a data getter that receives data from the server insurance module a web user interface controller ASPX with which the agent of the insurer interacts and a data setter that transmits data to the server insurance module . The web user interface controller ASPX is a web enabled interface that leverages the Microsoft.NET Framework version 3.5 redistribution package using SOAP Basic Authentication.

Referring to an insurer data source is connected to the insurer integrator sub module of the server insurance module and serves as a primary repository for insurer data. For instance the insurer data source includes an insurer customer database containing information relating to the insureds including home loss auto loss policy download bind and quote request information as well as an archive of telephone text and e mail correspondence.

Referring to third party data sources such as Google CarFax Motor Trend Kelley Blue Book Lexis Nexis and Zillow are connected to the third party integrator sub module of the server insurance module via the Internet . The third party data sources provide data and services to the system including vehicle identification number VIN lookups and validations vehicle history reports vehicle valuations property valuations property replacement values map data and a superimposition of accident and loss data onto the map data that are accessible via HTTP using SOAP Basic Authentication and RESTful formats.

Referring to a process of registering an insured with the system is shown at . The mobile device receives step a selection from the insured to initiate the mobile insurance module . The mobile device while booting the mobile insurance module displays step a splash screen for instance featuring the text Loading . . . . Then either automatically upon the first activation of the mobile insurance module or upon the receipt of a selection from the insured of the registration process the mobile insurance module transmits step a request to the server insurance module for a personal identification number PIN such as cUserlD. Upon receiving step the PIN the mobile insurance module solicits step information from the insured including a nickname contact name and phone number and other contact information. If the information is acceptable the mobile insurance module instructs the insured to capture step using the mobile device a photograph for use as a thumbnail used to identify the insured. Upon receiving a captured photograph the mobile insurance module determines whether the photograph is acceptable. Then once the mobile insurance module receives a request to submit the registration from the insured the mobile insurance module submits step the information and the photograph to the server insurance module . Having transmitted the information and the photograph to the server insurance module related to the insured the registration process is complete step .

The insured may then purchase a policy using the mobile insurance module or register an existing policy by submitting the policy number cPolicylD to the mobile insurance module for validation or by requesting an automatic search and identification of policies associated with the insured.

Referring to a process of administering and managing insurance coverage for the vehicle of the insured with the system is illustrated at . First the mobile insurance module receives step a selection from the insured using the mobile device of a vehicle administration option from a master directory of the mobile insurance module . In response the mobile insurance module displays step a listing of currently registered vehicles of the insured including vehicle data and a number of action buttons including buttons to initiate a quick quote step initiate a new claim step review policy coverages step review photographs step and display an Insurance Identification Card. If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to initiate the quick quote the mobile insurance module solicits information from the insured for instance the vehicle identification number of the vehicle for which the quick quote is requested. The vehicle identification number may be provided by the insured by entering the vehicle identification number in text format or by taking a picture of the vehicle identification number e.g. from the car window or from inside the driver side door that is processed using optical character recognition software to extract the vehicle identification number. Then the mobile insurance module submits step a quick quote request to the server insurance module . In response the third party integrator sub module of the server insurance module requests step data such as the make model and year of the vehicle associated with the vehicle identification number from third party data sources . Upon receiving the vehicle identification number of the vehicle of the insured the server insurance module formats an ACORD Request For Auto Quotation and submits the request to the insurer step . The insurer computes a quote based in part on the received vehicle identification number and currently in place coverages and deductibles and sends step the quote to the insured for review in the form of a binder. Upon receiving step the acceptance of the binder by the insured the server insurance module generates step an insurance identification card that is stored on the mobile device and which can be printed immediately as proof of insurance.

If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to initiate the new claim the mobile insurance module solicits step information from the insured regarding the accident or the loss associated with the claim and in particular as the accident or the loss relates to the vehicle of the insured. Upon entering the information about the vehicle of the insured the insured can choose to enter additional information. If the mobile insurance module receives a selection regarding other vehicles other damage i.e. to property assets and or individuals or witnesses the mobile insurance module solicits additional information regarding the other vehicles step the other damage step or the witnesses step . Then if the mobile insurance module receives a selection by the insured to supplement the provided information the mobile insurance module instructs the insured to capture step photographs video recordings audio recordings and text notes using the various components of the mobile device . By leveraging the technological capabilities of the mobile device the mobile insurance module can capture all relevant information to the processing and resolution of the claim. Once the mobile insurance module receives a request to submit the claim the mobile insurance module issues an ACORD format First Notice Of Loss or Notice Of Loss FNL to the insurer step the claim including all relevant information to the insurer for processing. Then the mobile insurance module displays step the claim status to notify the insured of whether the claim is pending or if the claim has been accepted or denied. Since the mobile insurance module has captured and submitted all relevant information concerning the claim at the time of the accident or loss to the insurer in ACORD format and notified claim personnel the insurer can process and resolve the claim substantially immediately for instance while the insured is still on location. For example the insurer can instruct the insured to provide additional information or the insurer can make a direct deposit to a bank account of the insured substantially immediately using the insurance module .

If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to review coverages the mobile insurance module displays a listing of policies held by the insured and a number of action buttons. Upon receiving a selection by the insured to view additional detail regarding a specific policy the mobile insurance module displays step the additional detail. Upon receiving a selection by the insured to view additional detail regarding aggregate coverage of all policies the mobile insurance module displays step the additional detail.

If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to review photographs the mobile insurance module displays photographs taken by the insured in thumbnail format. Upon receiving a selection by the insured of a photograph the mobile insurance module edits step the metadata of the photographs for instance to provide descriptive titles to add a note or to rearrange the order of the photographs.

Referring to a process of administering and managing insurance coverage for the property of the insured with the system is illustrated at . First the mobile insurance module receives step a selection from the insured using the mobile device of a property administration option from a master directory of the mobile insurance module i.e. labeled My Stuff . In response the mobile insurance module displays step a listing of previously registered properties of the insured including property and asset data and a number of action buttons including buttons to update a lienholder or mortgagee step initiate a new claim step review policy coverages step and review photographs step . If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to update the lienholder of the policy the mobile insurance module solicits step updated information from the insured. Then the mobile insurance module validates step the updated information. If the updated lienholder or mortgagee information is validated and accepted the server insurance module generates step an insurance identification card that is stored on the mobile device and which can be printed immediately as proof of insurance.

If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to initiate the new property claim the mobile insurance module solicits step information from the insured regarding the accident or the loss associated with the claim and in particular as the accident or the loss relates to the property of the insured. Upon entering the information about the asset of the insured the insured can choose to enter additional information. If the mobile insurance module receives a selection regarding other properties i.e. to other buildings other damage i.e. to contents of the property such as assets or liabilities the mobile insurance module solicits additional information regarding other properties step other damage step or liabilities step . Then if the mobile insurance module receives a selection by the insured to supplement the provided information the mobile insurance module instructs the insured to capture step photographs video recordings audio recordings and text notes using the various components of the mobile device . Once the insured has entered all relevant information and the mobile insurance module receives a request to submit the claim the mobile insurance module submits step the claim to the insurer for processing. Then the server insurance module displays step the claim status to notify the insured of whether the claim is pending or if the claim has been accepted or denied.

If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to review coverages the mobile insurance module displays a listing of policies held by the insured and a number of action buttons. Upon receiving a selection by the insured to view additional detail regarding a specific policy the mobile insurance module displays step the additional detail. Upon receiving a selection by the insured to view additional detail regarding aggregate coverage of all policies the mobile insurance module displays step the additional detail.

If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to review photographs the mobile insurance module displays photographs taken by the insured in thumbnail format. Upon receiving a selection by the insured of a photograph the mobile insurance module edits step the photographs for instance to provide descriptive titles to add a note or to rearrange the order of the photographs.

Referring to a process of capturing photographs and video footage is shown at . First the mobile insurance module receives step a selection from the insured using the mobile device of a photo capture option from a master directory. In response the mobile insurance module displays step a listing of recently captured photographs and a number of action buttons including buttons to review details of the photographs step activate and switch over to the camera mode of the mobile device step and request assistance step . If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to review details of the photograph the mobile insurance module displays a number of action buttons including buttons to view step the photograph in a location view or edit step the metadata text associated with the photograph. If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection from the insured to view the photograph in a location view the mobile insurance module displays stored photographs in a superimposed manner on top of a map based upon the location where each photograph was taken. If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection from the insured to edit text associated with the photograph the mobile insurance module solicits updated text from the insured. All entered data is stored in metadata of the photographs. The original date time stamp and the latitude and longitude location data cannot be altered.

If the insured chooses to activate and switch over to the camera mode of the mobile device the mobile insurance unit displays a number of action buttons including buttons to take step photographs using the camera mode and to use step an album viewer of the camera mode to review photographs. If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to take photographs using the camera mode the mobile insurance module activates and switches over step to the camera mode of the mobile device . When the mobile insurance module is next activated any photographs taken by the insured can be accessed and reviewed within the context of the mobile insurance module . If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to use an album viewer of the camera the mobile insurance module activates and switches over step to a photograph gallery mode of the mobile device . All selected photographs whether from the camera or gallery have a date time stamp and latitude and longitudinal location information supplied by the GPS feature of the mobile device which is written to the metadata of the photographs. Neither data element can be altered by editing.

If the mobile insurance module receives step a selection to request assistance the mobile insurance module activates and switches over to the phone mode and dials step the agent of the insurer for immediate assistance. Alternatively if the insured has selected that another means of communication for assistance is preferred such as text or e mail communication the mobile insurance module can activate switch over to and initiate communication using the preferred means of communication. In initiating the assistance the mobile insurance module authenticates the insured and gathers data associated with the insured such as policy vehicle property and asset and claim data for immediate use. Thus the agent of the insurer can better service the insured by eliminating the need for authentication and information gathering.

Referring to an example of the mobile insurance module is shown at . In particular the mobile insurance module is shown installed and operating on an Apple iPhone mobile device . The user interface of the mobile insurance module includes a title bar at the top of the display of the user interface . The title bar includes a return button located toward the left side of the display e.g. a left pointing arrow labeled My Stuff identifying an upper level directory . The title bar includes a description that is centered in the title bar identifying the current content of the display. The title bar can also include a right action button not shown located toward the right side of the display. The right action button can provide many functionalities based on the context of the current content of the display for instance including an edit function and a save function.

The user interface of the mobile insurance module also includes a body which consists mainly of insurance data and tables. From top to bottom the body is shown as having a photograph of the vehicle of the insured located side by side with key insurance data such as a policy number of a policy associated with the vehicle the insured a vehicle identification number of the vehicle of the insured and an effective date of the policy. Below this the body is shown as having a coverage action button for reviewing coverages and a photographs action button for reviewing photographs. Below the action buttons the body is shown as having quick quote data including several quick quotes a date on which the request for a quick quote was submitted a description of the vehicle for which the quick quote is associated and a description of the status of the quick quote. Alongside each quick quote is an expand icon that when activated shows additional details regarding the associated item and an add entry icon that when activated creates a new occurrence of the table item. Below this the body is shown as having claim data including a claim a date on which the claim was submitted and a status of the claim alongside another expand icon and another add entry icon . Toward the bottom the body is shown as having an Assist Me action button that when activated initiates a communication with the agent of the insurer and a Track Me action button that when activated enables the GPS mode of the mobile device and places the mobile insurance module in a stealth tracking mode. These action buttons can also include a Submit action button not shown that submits the transaction in progress to the server insurance module for immediate processing. In addition in the illustrated example the iPhone mobile device also includes an iPhone Home action button which automatically saves all data to a database local to the mobile device exits the mobile insurance module and returns the mobile device to the iPhone Application Menu.

The user interface and in particular the display of the mobile insurance module is readily configurable according to insured inputted preferences. For instance the insured can select from a range of preferences including the following 

It should be understood that the foregoing description is only illustrative of the invention. Various alternatives and modifications can be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the broader aspects of the present invention.

According to an alternative embodiment the mobile insurance module can generate a quick quote for a property based on data received from the global positioning system mode of the mobile device. For instance by capturing the longitude and latitude of the mobile device at the moment the quick quote is requested the system can identify the property and generate a quick quote using third party data sources and the proprietary pricing models of the insurer.

According to an alternative embodiment the server insurance module or the customer service representative insurance module can register the insurer with the system.

According to an alternative embodiment the system can securely photo archive disaster sensitive assets whether insured or not such as financial records and other valuable home contents with a protected date time stamp and latitude and longitude location data in the metadata of the photographs so that the photographs may be considered evidentiary documents.

According to an alternative embodiment the system can be applied to other forms of property and casualty insurance as well as marine insurance and surety.

