---

title: MOS-driver compatible JFET structure with enhanced gate source characteristics
abstract: A MOSFET driver compatible JFET device is disclosed. The JFET device can include a gate contact, a drain contact, and a source contact. The JFET device can further include a first gate region of semiconductor material adjacent the gate contact and a second region of semiconductor material adjacent the first gate region. The first gate region and the second gate region can form a first p-n junction between the first gate region and the second gate region. The JFET device can further include a channel region of semiconductor material adjacent the source contact. The channel region and the second gate region can form a second p-n junction between the second gate region and the channel region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08264058&OS=08264058&RS=08264058
owner: University of South Carolina
number: 08264058
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100212
---
This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 207 619 filed Feb. 13 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention was developed with funding from the Office of Naval Research DARPA under award N00014 07 1 0611. Therefore the government retains certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates generally to junction field effect transistors JFETs and more particularly to gate region structures for JFETs.

A JFET is a field effect transistor device that provides the capability of modulating current through a channel region between the drain and the source of the JFET. The current through the channel region is controlled by adjusting the voltage applied to a p n junction proximate the gate of the JFET. In normally off JFETs or enhancement mode JFETs the depletion width of the p n junction typically extends all the way across the channel region of the JFET when about 0V is applied to the gate. Application of a positive voltage to the gate forward biases the p n junction and reduces the width of the depletion region in the channel region. This creates a conduction path for current in the channel region between the source and drain of the JFET. In this regard a normally off JFET can be used as a controllable switch for power electronics applications.

JFET device illustrated in is an n channel normally off JFET such that channel region and drift region are n type semiconductor materials. Gate region is of a p type semiconductor material to form a p n junction between gate region and channel region . Another p n junction is formed between gate region and drift region . P n junction has a depletion region with a depletion width that extends across channel region when a 0V is applied to gate contact . When the voltage applied to gate contact reaches a threshold voltage p n junction becomes forward biased and the width of depletion region is reduced. This creates a channel in channel region for conduction of current between drain contact and source contact .

Conventional normally off JFETs such as silicon carbide SiC JFETs turn on at low threshold gate voltages such as at about 1V and are fully on at low gate voltages such as at about 3V. These voltage levels are not compatible with conventional MOSFET gate drivers which operate between about 0V off state and about 15V on state . The threshold voltage of a conventional normally off SiC JFET of about 1V is so low that it is not safe to use a normally off SiC JFET with a MOSFET gate driver in power electronics applications where noise could be higher than about 1V. Additionally a 15V gate voltage would cause the p n junction between gate and source to conduct a very large current which can cause significant losses and defect propagation and subsequent device failure in the SiC material. In this regard a specially designed gate driver is typically required for operation of SiC JFETs which limits the application of JFETs in power electronics.

In a conventional normally off JFET the gate source region forms a p n junction which conducts a gate source current when the p n junction is forward biased. The gate source current can be about 50 mA or even higher which causes power losses in WET driver circuits. Moreover the p n junction in a conventional normally off JFET is almost fully forward biased when the JFET is turned on and the width of the depletion region of the p n junction is very thin. The thin depletion region between the gate and channel can introduce a high gate source capacitance which can limit dynamic performance of the JFET significantly.

Thus there is a need for a normally off SiC JFET structure that is compatible with MOSFET drivers that overcomes the above mentioned disadvantages.

Aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the following description or may be obvious from the description or may be learned through practice of the invention.

One embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a JFET device that includes a gate contact a drain contact and a source contact. The JFET device includes a first gate region of semiconductor material adjacent the gate contact and a second region of semiconductor material adjacent the first gate region. The first gate region and the second gate region form a first p n junction between the first gate region and the second gate region. The JFET device further includes a channel region of semiconductor material adjacent the source contact. The channel region and the second gate region form a second p n junction between the second gate region and the channel region. The first p n junction has a depletion width that is adjustable based at least in part on a gate voltage applied to the gate contact.

In a variation of this exemplary embodiment the second p n junction can have a depletion width that is adjustable based at least in part on the gate voltage. In another variation of this exemplary embodiment the depletion width of the second p n junction can decrease as the depletion width of the first p n junction increases when the gate voltage is greater than a threshold voltage for the first p n junction.

In another variation of this exemplary embodiment the first gate region can be an n type semiconductor material and the second gate region can be a p type semiconductor material. In yet another variation of this exemplary embodiment the second gate region can have a higher doping concentration than the channel region.

In a further variation of this exemplary embodiment the second gate region can have a first side adjacent the channel region and a second side adjacent a drift region of semiconductor material. The drift region and the second gate region can form a third p n junction between the drift region and the second gate region. In a variation of this exemplary embodiment the first side of the second gate region can have a thickness that is less than a thickness of the second side of the second gate region. In another variation of this exemplary embodiment the first side of the second gate region can have a thickness that is approximately equal to the sum of the depletion width of the first p n junction and the depletion width of the second p n junction when a 0V is applied to the gate contact and to the source contact.

In still a further variation of this exemplary embodiment the first gate region the second gate region and the channel region can comprise a silicon carbide material.

Another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a JFET device that includes a gate contact a drain contact and a source contact. The JFET device includes a first gate region of semiconductor material adjacent the gate contact and a second region of semiconductor material adjacent the first gate region so that a first p n junction is formed between the first gate region and the second gate region. The JFET device further includes a channel region of semiconductor material adjacent the source contact and the second gate region so as to form a second p n junction between the second gate region and the channel region. The JFET device further includes a drift region of semiconductor material disposed adjacent the drain contact the channel region and the second gate region so as to form a third p n junction between the second gate region and the drift region. In a variation of this exemplary embodiment the second gate region can at least partially surround the first gate region.

Another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a normally off SiC JFET device. The normally off SiC JFET device includes a gate contact a source contact and a drain contact. The normally off SiC JFET device includes an n gate region of n type semiconductor material adjacent the gate contact and a p gate region of p type semiconductor material partially surrounding the n gate region. The p gate region and the n gate region form a first p n junction between the p gate region and the n gate region. The normally off SiC JFET device further includes an n channel region of n type semiconductor material adjacent the source contact and the p gate region. The n channel region and the p gate region form a second p n junction between the n channel region and the p gate region. The normally off SiC JFET device further includes an n drift region of n type semiconductor material adjacent the drain contact the n channel region and the p gate region. The n drift region and the p gate region form a third p n junction between the n drift region and the p gate region.

In a variation of this exemplary embodiment the SiC JFET device has a threshold voltage of about 6V. In another variation of this exemplary embodiment the p gate region is substantially depleted when a gate voltage of about 6V is applied to the gate contact. In still another variation of this exemplary embodiment the n channel region is substantially undepleted when a gate voltage of about 15V is applied to the gate contact.

Other variations and modifications can be made to these exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with reference to the following description and appended claims. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate embodiments of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention.

Reference now will be made in detail to embodiments of the invention one or more examples of which are illustrated in the drawings. Each example is provided by way of explanation of the invention not limitation of the invention. In fact it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. For instance features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used with another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment. Thus it is intended that the present invention covers such modifications and variations as come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

In general the present disclosure is directed to a normally off JFET structure that is compatible with MOSFET driver circuits. The normally off JFET structure includes a gate contact a source contact and a drain contact. The normally off JFET structure includes a first gate region of semiconductor material adjacent the gate contact and a second gate region of semiconductor material adjacent the first gate region so as to form a first p n junction between the first gate region and the second gate region. A channel region is disposed adjacent the second gate region to form a second p n junction between the second gate region and the channel region.

The JFET structure according to embodiments of the present disclosure can provide for a normally off JFET with a threshold voltage in the range of about 3V to about 6V and a fully on voltage of about 15V and can block high drain voltage. The JFET structure provides for a reduced gate current when the JFET is fully on and can provide for reduced gate source capacitance and gate drain capacitance. Moreover when the JFET is in a fully on condition a larger channel region can be used for current conduction. In view of the above characteristics the JFET structure according to embodiments of the present disclosure can provide for a normally off SiC JFET that is compatible with MOSFET driver circuits and can be used in power electronics applications.

The JFET structure according to embodiments of the present disclosure is applicable to any JFET device. While the present disclosure is made with reference to an n channel normally off JFET device those of ordinary skill in the art using the disclosures provided herein should readily understand that the present disclosure is equally applicable to other JFET devices such as p channel JFET devices vertical JFET devices planar JFET devices Si JFET devices SiC JFET devices normally on JFET devices and normally off JFET devices.

An n channel region of n type semiconductor material is disposed between source contacts and drain contact . N channel region is adjacent to p gate region so that a second p n junction is formed between n channel region and p gate region . An n drift region is adjacent to drain contact n channel region and p gate region so as to form a third p n junction between the p gate region and the n drift region .

The doping concentration of p gate region is much higher than the doping concentration of n channel region such that the depletion region of second p n junction is mostly in n channel region . When a 0V is applied to gate contact the depletion width of the depletion region associated with second p n junction extends across n channel region which prevents current from flowing through n channel region from drain contact to source contact .

As illustrated in p gate region has first side adjacent n channel region and a second side adjacent n drift region . The thickness of the p gate region at the second side adjacent n drift region is much thicker than the thickness of the first side of p gate region adjacent n channel region . The thick p gate region at the second side adjacent n drift region is designed to support high drain voltage when the JFET is pinched off. When a high voltage is applied to drain contact the depletion region of third p n junction between p gate region and n drift region will shield n channel region from a high electric field. Most high voltage applied on drain contact can be supported by third p n junction between p gate region and n drift region . Therefore p gate region at the first side adjacent n channel region is protected from high reverse bias voltage between drain contact and source contact .

With reference now to the JFET device will now be discussed in more detail. When a 0V is applied to gate contact and to source contact n channel region is completely pinched off by the depletion width of the depletion region associated with second p n junction between p gate region and n channel region . The electric field along cut line when a 0V is applied to gate contact and source contact is illustrated in . Curve of represents the electric field in n gate region and a portion of p gate region . Curve shows the electric field in a portion of p gate region and n channel region .

As the voltage applied to gate contact increases the blocking voltage of first p n junction between n gate region and p gate region also increases. The depletion width of the depletion region associated with first p n junction will increase because first p n junction between n gate region and p gate region is blocking more and more voltage. At one point p gate region becomes totally depleted. The voltage applied to gate contact at this moment is the threshold voltage of JFET device . The electric field distribution at this moment along cut line of is illustrated in . Curve of illustrates the electric field in the n gate region and the p gate region. The area between curve and curve represents the threshold voltage of JFET device .

When the voltage applied to gate contact is higher than the threshold voltage the positive and negative electric fields in p gate region compete with each other. As a result the depletion width of the depletion region associated with first p n junction between n gate region and p gate region keeps increasing which causes the depletion width of the depletion region in p gate region associated with second p n junction between p gate region and n channel region to decrease. As the depletion width in p gate region of the depletion region associated with second p n junction decreases the depletion width in the n channel region of the depletion region associated with second p n junction also decreases because the blocking voltage of the second p n junction decreases. As the depletion width of the depletion region in n channel region reduces n channel region starts to open for current to flow from drain contact to source contact .

When the voltage between n gate region and n channel region is higher than the threshold voltage p gate region is totally depleted. No carriers exist in p gate region . N gate region and n channel region become separated by a region of semiconductor material that is free of carriers. Electrons in n channel region can go through the lowered potential barrier between p gate region and n channel region and are swept across the first p n junction by an electric field of opposite polarity between n gate region and p gate region . Gate current is thus much smaller in JFET device when compared to conventional JFETs because only one carrier type namely electrons in this exemplary embodiment participates in gate source current while both carrier types conduct gate source current in a conventional JFET structure.

Eventually when gate voltage is about 15V the n channel region is mostly open. The electric field distribution at this moment along cut line of is illustrated in . Curve of represents the electric field in n gate region and p gate region . Curve shows the electric field in n channel region . Area between curve and curve represents the fully open gate voltage. As illustrated the electric field in n channel region has shifted from curve to curve . When the JFET is fully on the first p n junction between n gate region and p gate region supports the most voltage applied on gate contact . The depletion width of the depletion region associated with second p n junction between p gate region and n channel region is reduced so that a portion of n channel region is available for current conduction.

A finite element simulation has been performed to determine the electric field distribution along cut line of in p gate region and n channel region as gate bias voltage increases from 0 volts to 15 volts. depicts the simulation results. Curve depicts simulation results for when the gate voltage is less than the threshold voltage of JFET device . When the gate voltage is smaller than the threshold voltage p gate region is not completely depleted and n channel region is completely depleted so that JFET is off. Curve depicts simulation results for when the gate voltage is equal to the threshold voltage of JFET device . When gate bias is around the threshold voltage p gate region is completely depleted. Curve depicts simulation results for when the gate voltage is greater than the threshold voltage of JFET device. When the gate voltage is higher than the threshold voltage a portion of n channel region becomes undepleted i.e. the n channel region starts to open for conduction. When properly designed n channel region is fully open when the gate voltage is about 15V.

The transconductance waveform of JFET device is illustrated in . Curve depicts the transconductance waveform of a conventional JFET device. Curve depicts the transconductance waveform of a JFET device according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. As illustrated the conventional JFET device turns on at about 1 V while the JFET device according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure turns on at about 6 V.

One of the advantages of the JFET device according to exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure is that only one carrier type can penetrate both first p n junction and second p n junction . This reduces gate current significantly. This advantage is illustrated in . Curve depicts characteristics of a conventional JFET device while curve depicts characteristics of a JFET device according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. As illustrated the gate source current of the JFET structure according to embodiments of the present disclosure is only a tenth of the gate current of a traditional JFET structure when the n channel region is open more than 50 .

N channel region can open close to 100 if sufficiently high voltage is applied to gate contact . Although a high current will go through gate region if the barrier presented by second p n junction between p gate region and n channel region disappears the p n junction barrier can be reduced to a very small value while maintaining a relatively small gate current because only one carrier conducts current from gate contact to source contact .

Another advantage of JFET device is that the gate source capacitance and gate drain capacitance can be reduced significantly because the depletion width between n gate region and n channel region and between n gate region and n drift region are increased significantly when compared to conventional JFET devices. Reduced gate source and gate drain capacitance improves dynamic performance of JFET device significantly.

While the present subject matter has been described in detail with respect to specific exemplary embodiments and methods thereof it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon attaining an understanding of the foregoing may readily produce alterations to variations of and equivalents to such embodiments. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure is by way of example rather than by way of limitation and the subject disclosure does not preclude inclusion of such modifications variations and or additions to the present subject matter as would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

