---

title: Control method, control apparatus, data receiving and recording method, data receiver and receiving method
abstract: A data receiving and recording method and data receiver are provided for receiving data coded by a predetermined method and copyright information attached to the data. While recording the received data on a predetermined recording medium, the copyright information is recorded into a predetermined area of the recording medium. Preferably, the data consists of audio data of the song, lyrics data of the song and image data relating to the song and the copyright information is allotted respectively to the audio data, lyrics data and image data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606172&OS=08606172&RS=08606172
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 08606172
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100709
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 396 438 filed Apr. 3 2006 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 694 458 filed Oct. 27 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 076 205 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 354 612 filed Jul. 15 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 668 158 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Japanese Application Nos. P10 202360 filed Jul. 16 1998 P10 202361 filed Jul. 16 1998 and P10 202362 filed Jul. 16 1998.

The present invention relates to a control method and control apparatus suited for downloading for example music data or the like transmitted via a digital satellite broadcast to a data storage apparatus.

Digital satellite broadcasting is now spreading. Compared with existing analog broadcasting the digital satellite broadcasting resists noise and fading and allows transmission of high quality signals. Also the digital satellite broadcasting improves frequency utilizing efficiency and provides multi channels. For instance in the digital satellite broadcasting it is possible for one satellite to provide several hundreds of channels. The digital satellite broadcasting provides many specialized channels such as sports movie music and news on which channels individual contents are broadcast.

Among these specialized channels music channels are among the most popular broadcasting programs for promotion purposes in which mainly new songs and hit songs are put on the air.

As stated above programs for introducing new songs and hit songs are put on the air by means of moving pictures and sound via conventional music channels. If viewers watch the music channels and find some songs favorable they want to buy CDs or the like containing the songs and enjoy them. Also they are sometimes inclined to gather information on the artists singing the songs they like and information on albums containing the favorite songs. When a viewer watches a music program and wants to know about information on an artist or his or her album containing the viewer s favorite song it is convenient that the viewer can obtain the information instantly. Further when the viewer finds a favorite song it is convenient that he or she can download audio data on the song. The conventional music channels are however one way media to send moving pictures and sound and are not able to respond to such requests from viewers.

To solve the above disadvantage there has been proposed a music content transmission system which allow viewers to easily obtain information on music put on the air on a music channel and to easily download music data to a data storage device as described in for example PCT JP98 05044 filed on Nov. 10 1998 by the same applicant as that of this application . There has also been proposed downloading information on lyrics and jacket data as well as the music data in the music content transmission system.

Meanwhile to provide such a music content transmission system a user side for receiving digital satellite broadcasting needs to connect a tuner for receiving the digital satellite broadcasting needs to a data storage device recording device which employs a storage medium such as a magneto optical disc and needs to download music data received at the tuner to the recording device. In this case if the music data received at the tuner is to be downloaded to the recording device processing is needed for controlling the recording operation and the like of the recording device based on data including the broadcast start and end time of the song as well as music data received at the tuner. Thus it is required to set the tuner and the recording device to operate in cooperation with each other. For instance there are various types of recording devices for recording audio signals. It is difficult for data from broadcasting stations from which music programs are transmitted to directly control unspecified recording devices connected to tuners.

Furthermore the number of recording devices connected to a tuner is not always one and a plurality of recording devices may be connected to the tuner. In that case it is also impossible for the broadcasting stations to select the recording device to which music data is downloaded. It is therefore necessary to deal with them at the tuner side in some way.

It is noted that the above description concerns a case of transmitting music data by digital satellite broadcasting. The same problems occur when various content data transmitted are from the external side using broadcast waves or the like and are to be downloaded to the reception side based on the data transmitted therefrom together with the content data.

It is an object of the present invention to easily download content data obtained from the external side to connection equipment.

The music data transmitted from the transmitting side by such a transmission system is usually copyrighted data. Therefore if the music data downloaded to the user side recording apparatus is reproduced without restrictions it is difficult to protect copyrights and the music content transmission system itself might not be effectively utilized.

In addition separate copyrights are given to the authors of the character data on lyrics and the static image data on images of the jacket attached to the music data respectively. It is therefore necessary to deal with those copyrights differently from the copyright of the music data.

It is another object of the present invention to make it possible to appropriately deal with the recording of the transmitted data having copyrights.

When dealing with the reception of songs broadcast using such a transmission system and downloading them to a user side recording apparatus it is possible to download a song that the user likes to the recording apparatus just before the end of the broadcast time. This is accomplished by determining the time at which the song that the user wants to record is broadcast transmitted by a certain method and downloading the song that the user desires to the recording apparatus. Since many music data songs can be transmitted with such a system it takes a lot of time and labor to look for songs which the user desires to download when a list of broadcast times of respective songs is simply displayed on a program guide screen.

It is yet another object of the present invention to make it possible to easily deal with the processing required for obtaining desired data when much data such as music data is transmitted by broadcasting.

According to the present invention a method for controlling a second equipment connected to a first equipment by executing a first program inputted to the first equipment from an external side and a second program prepared for the first equipment in advance comprises the steps of conducting processing for starting the second program and acquiring information on the second equipment by execution of the started second program.

According to the control method of the present invention the acquisition of information on the second equipment by the first program inputted from the external side to the first equipment is executed by the second program prepared in the first equipment.

In addition a control apparatus according to the present invention comprises a first storage unit operable to store a first program inputted from an external side a second storage unit prepared in advance and operable to store a second program started by the first program and a processing unit for executing the programs stored in the first and second storage units the processing unit being operable to acquire information on a connected equipment based on execution of the second program stored in the second storage unit and to control the connected equipment based on the acquired information.

According to the control apparatus of the present invention the control of the equipment connected based on the first program inputted from the external side is executed through the second program contained in this apparatus.

A data receiving and recording method according to the present invention comprises the steps of receiving data coded by a predetermined method and copyright information attached to the data and while recording the received data on a predetermined recording medium causing the copyright information to be recorded in a predetermined area of the recording medium.

According to the data receiving and recording method of the present invention the copyright information as well as the data is recorded on the recording medium.

Further a data receiver according to the present invention comprises receiving means for receiving data of multiplexed and transmitted copyright information determining means for determining the copyright information received by the receiving means and transmitting means for transmitting the data received by the receiving means to a predetermined recording apparatus and transmitting the copyright information determined by the determining means to the recording apparatus as information attached to the data.

According to the data receiver of the present invention the copyright information as well as the data is transmitted to the recording apparatus to thereby make it possible to record the copyright information as well as the data on the recording apparatus.

A receiving method according to the present invention comprises the steps of receiving text data strings indicating names relevant to main data transmitted by a broadcast on a predetermined channel retrieving text strings including a designated character string from the received text data strings displaying a list of the designated character strings receiving the main data relevant to a selected character string from the displayed character strings and downloading the received main data to a predetermined recording apparatus.

According to the receiving method of the present invention it is possible to retrieve necessary data based on the received text data string and to download the retrieved data.

Furthermore a data receiver according to the present invention comprises receiving means for receiving main data transmitted by broadcast of a predetermined channel and text data indicating names relevant to the main data input means for inputting character strings to be retrieved retrieval means for retrieving character strings inputted by the input means from a text data string received by the receiving means display control means for creating image data for displaying text including the character strings retrieved by the retrieval means and control means for receiving main data designated by a text selected from a table list displayed by the image data in the receiving means and downloading the main data to a predetermined recording apparatus.

According to the data receiver of the present invention the retrieval means can retrieve necessary data based on the text data string received by the receiving means and control means can download the retrieved data.

Now one embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanied drawings.

A system to which the present invention may be applied may be designed to broadcast a music program using digital satellite broadcasting technology and to transmit music data relevant to the music program whereby a viewer can watch and listen to the music program and if the viewer finds a certain song interesting the viewer can easily buy the song on the spot.

The TV program server provides material for ordinary music broadcast programs. The music broadcast program transmitted from the TV program material server contains moving pictures and sound. In the ordinary music broadcast program moving pictures and sound for for example the promotion of new songs are broadcast or the countdown of latest hit songs is broadcast.

The music material server provides audio programs using audio channels. The material for the audio programs is only sound. The music material server transmits material for audio programs of a plurality of audio channels to the ground station . In the music broadcast programs on the respective audio channels the same songs are broadcast repeatedly on predetermined unit time intervals. Each of the audio channels is independent and is used in various manners. For instance recommended songs among the latest Japanese popular songs may be broadcast repeatedly for a predetermined time on a certain audio channel those among the latest American popular songs may be broadcast repeatedly for a predetermined time on another audio channel and those among the jazz songs may be broadcast repeatedly for a predetermined time on yet another audio channel. Alternatively a plurality of songs of a certain artist may be divided among the respective audio channels and broadcast thereon repeatedly.

The sound addition information server provides time information on songs outputted from the music material server . The server also provides copyright information on each songs i.e. information on digital copy restrictions.

The GUI data server provides data for creating a screen of a list page of transmitted songs and an information page of the respective songs data for creating static image data on jackets data for creating an EPC Electronic Program Guide screen and the like. As will be described in detail later the system to which the present invention may be applied displays lyrics of the transmitted songs and concert information of artists by the operation of GUI on the screen. The system also can select and download songs and can make reservations for the selection and downloading of songs by operating the GUI on the screen. The GUI data server transmits data therefor. It is noted that the GUI data in this embodiment are data in a format determined by for example MHEG Multimedia and Hypermedia Information Coding Experts Group method. The static image data on jackets and text data on lyrics are set to be transmitted while allotted copyright information to every data i.e. information on digital copy restrictions.

The ground station multiplexes and transmits video data and audio data serving as material for music program from the TV program material server audio data serving as material for audio channels from the music material server sound addition information from the sound addition information server and GUI data from the GUI data server . At this time video data on the TV program broadcasting is compressed by for example a MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group 2 method. The audio data on the TV program broadcasting is compressed by the MPEG audio method. The audio data on respective audio channels are compressed by two different methods e.g. the MPEG audio method and the ATRAC Adaptive Transform Acoustic Coding method. These items of data are encoded using key information from a key information server during multiplexing.

Signals from the ground station are received by receiving equipment installed in each household through an artificial satellite . A plurality of transponders are installed in the satellite . A transponder has for example 30 Mbps transmission capability. A parabola antenna an IRD Integrated Receiver Decoder a storage device and a television set are located at each household.

The signals transmitted through the satellite are received by the parabola antenna . The received signals are converted to signals at a predetermined frequency by an LNB Low Noise Block Downconverter attached to the parabola antenna and supplied to the IRD .

The IRD selects a signal on a predetermined channel from the received signals and demodulates video data and audio data. The IRD also creates a list page of transmitted songs an information page of the respective songs and an EPG screen. The output of the IRD is supplied to the television set .

The storage device is provided to hold the downloaded audio data. For instance an MD recorder player using a magnet optical disk referred to as MD as a storage medium a DAT recorder player using a magnetic tape as a recording medium a DVD recorder player using as a recording medium an optical disk for video recording can serve as the storage device . It is also possible to use a personal computer as the storage device and store audio data on a hard disk or a CD ROM of the computer.

The IRD is coupled to an accounting server through for example a telephone line . An IC card storing various information is inserted into the IRD . When the audio data on songs is downloaded the information is recorded on the IC card. The information on the IC card is fed to the accounting server . The accounting server prepares appropriate accounting from the downloaded information and charges a viewer a fee. In this way by appropriate accounting it is possible to protect a copyright of a downloaded song.

As described above in the system in this embodiment the ground station multiplexes and transmits video data and audio data serving as material for music program broadcasting from the TV program material server audio data serving as material for audio channels from the music material server sound addition information from the sound addition information server and GUI data from the GUI data server . If the broadcasting data is received at the receiving equipment in each household a viewer can watch a music program and the GUI screen is displayed based on the transmitted GUI data. When one or more necessary operations are performed while looking at the GUI screen the viewer can look at the information page of the respective songs and try listening to the respective songs. Further by conducting one or more other necessary operations while looking at the GUI screen it is possible to download audio data on a desired song and store it in the storage disk .

Next the viewer s operation of the receiving equipment installed at each household will be described in more detail.

If a broadcast wave is received at the receiving equipment in each household a screen shown in appears on the television set . A moving picture based on the music programs supplied from the TV program material server is displayed in a TV program display area A at the top left hand corner of the screen. A music list B broadcast on respective audio channels are displayed at the top right hand corner of the screen. A text display area C and a jacket display area D are set at the bottom left hand corner of the screen. A lyric display button a profile display button an information display button a recording reservation button a reserved song list display button a record history display button and a download button are displayed on the right of the screen.

The viewer looks for an interesting song while looking at the names of songs displayed on the list B. If the viewer finds a certain song interesting he or she operates an arrow key on a remote commander and puts a cursor on the name of the song and depresses an enter key on the remote commander attached to the IRD . Thus the viewer can listen to the music associated with the name on which the cursor is put. That is since the same song is repeatedly broadcast for a predetermined unit time on each channel it is possible to switch over to an audio channel on which the song is broadcast while the TV program display area A on the scene is not changed thereby making it possible for the viewer to try listening to the song. At this moment the static image of the album jacket containing the song is displayed in the jacket display area D.

In this state the cursor is put on the lyric display button and the enter key is depressed which operations of putting the cursor on a button and depressing the enter key will be referred to as depress a button hereinafter . Then the lyrics of the song are displayed in the text display area C in synchronism with the audio data. Likewise if the profile display button or information display button is depressed the profile of an artist corresponding to the song concert information or the like is displayed in the test display area C. In this way the user can see what types of songs are broadcast at present as well as detailed information on the respective songs.

If the user wants to buy the song that he or she has just sampled the download button is depressed. When the download button is depressed audio data on the selected song is downloaded and stored in the storage device . In addition to the audio data on the song the data on the lyrics of the song information on the profile of the artist data on static image of the jacket and the like can be downloaded. Every time a song is downloaded information on the song is stored in the IC card provided in the IRD . The information stored in the IC card is taken out by the accounting server for example once per month thereby making it possible to protect the copyright of the downloaded song.

If the viewer wants to make a download reservation he or she depresses the recording reservation button . If the button is depressed the GUI screen is switched to display a list of songs which can be reserved on the entire screen. It is possible to display a list of songs retrieved for every hour every week or every genre. If the viewer selects a song for which a download reservation is to made from among the songs of the list information on the selected song is registered in the IRD . Then if the viewer intends to confirm the song for which the download reservation has been made a reserved song list display button is depressed and the list can be displayed on the entire screen. The song thus reserved is downloaded at a reservation time by the IRD and stored in the storage device .

If the viewer intends to confirm the song downloaded a recording history button is depressed and then a list of the songs which have been already downloaded is displayed on the entire screen.

As can be seen from the above in the receiving equipment of the system in this embodiment a list of songs is displayed on the GUI screen of the television set . If a song is selected in accordance with the display on the GUI screen the viewer can try listening to the song and review the lyrics profile of the artist and the like. Furthermore it is possible to download a song make a reservation for downloading the song display a download history and a list of reserved songs or the like.

As described above in the music content transmission system to which the present invention may be applied not only music broadcast programs are transmitted but also audio data on music are transmitted using a plurality of audio channels. Then by searching a desired song using for example a list of songs broadcast it is possible to easily store the music data in the storage device . Now this system will be described in more detail hereinafter.

In the material data from a TV program material registration system is registered in an AV server . The material data includes video data and audio data. The data registered in the AV server is transmitted to a TV program transmission system where the video data is compressed by for example an MPEG2 method and the audio data is compressed by for example an MPEG audio method and packeted. The output of the TV program transmission system is fed to a multiplexer .

The audio data from a music material registration system is supplied to an MPEG2 audio encoder A and an ATRAC encoder B respectively where the data is encoded and then registered in an MPEG audio server A and an ATRAC audio server B respectively. The MPEG audio data registered in the MPEG audio server A is fed to an MPEG audio transmission system A where the data is packeted and fed to the multiplexer . The ATRAC data registered in the ATRAC audio server B is fed to an ATRAC audio transmission system B as four fold speed ATRAC data in which ATRAC audio transmission system B the data is packeted and fed to the multiplexer .

Moreover the sound addition information from a sound addition information registration system is registered in a sound addition information database . The sound addition information registered in the sound addition information database is fed to a sound addition information system where the information is packeted and then fed to the multiplexer .

Additionally the GUI data from a GUI material registration system is registered in a GUI material database . The GUI material data registered in the GUI material database is fed to a GUI authoring system where data on a GUI screen is processed packeted and then fed to the multiplexer . It is noted that the GUI material data involves static image information on a jacket information on the lyrics of a song information on concerts of an artist and the like. The static image information is for example information compressed by the JPEG Joint Photographic Experts Group method into 640 480 pixels and the lyric information is for example text data of 800 characters or less. Both the static image information and the lyric information are packeted.

In the multiplexer the video packet and audio packet from the TV program transmission system the audio packet from the MPEG audio transmission system A the four fold speed audio packet from the ATRAC audio transmission system B the sound addition information packet from the sound addition information system and the GUI data packet from the GUI authoring system are time base multiplexed and encoded using key information from the key information server .

The output of the multiplexer is fed to a radio wave transmission system where the data are subjected to error code addition modulation frequency conversion processing and transmitted from the antenna toward the satellite .

As shown in in the event from time t to time t an ordinary moving picture program is broadcast i.e. a music program having a predetermined content A is broadcast. Moving pictures and sound are broadcast on this ordinary music program.

Ten channels of CH to CH for example are prepared as audio channels. Here the same song is repeatedly transmitted in one event through each of the audio channels CH CH CH . . . CH. That is to say in the event from time t to time t a song B is repeatedly transmitted through the audio channel CH and a song C is repeatedly transmitted through the audio channel CH. Likewise a song K is repeatedly transmitted through the audio channel CH. In the event starting at time t a song B is repeatedly transmitted through the audio channel CH and a song C is repeatedly transmitted through the audio channel CH. Likewise a song K is repeatedly transmitted through the audio channel CH. The same thing is common to MPEG audio channels and four fold speed ATRAC audio channels.

In the MPEG audio channel and the four fold speed ATRAC audio channel having the same number in parenthesis relate to the same song. In addition a sound addition information channel having a number in parenthesis is added to audio data of an audio channel having the same number. Further static image data and text data transmitted as GUI data are created for every channel. These items of data are time base multiplexed in a MPEG 2 transport packets shown in to and then transmitted. They are reconstructed using header information of the respective data packets in the IRD as shown in to .

Now the conceptual view of a transport stream to be transmitted is shown in . As shown therein a transport stream is a group of transport packets TS packets of fixed length of 188 bytes. The TS packet consists of a header an adaptation field and a payload. Data such as audio data static image data and sound addition information are stored in the payload. A packet ID to be referred to as PID hereinafter for separating streams and sections is stored in the header.

The data such as static image moving image sound and text constituting GUI data and script data described to conduct predetermined processes in response to the operation of a user on the GUI are described in a content description format referred to as MHEG 5 and transmitted in a protocol referred to as DSM CC Digital Storage Media Command and Control . is a conceptual transmission of MHEG data in this embodiment. Data broadcasting services are all included in a root directory referred to as a service gateway. Types of the objects included in the service gateway are a directory a file a stream a stream event and the like. Files in the service gateway are data files such as static image data files and text data files. The stream therein contains information linked to data streams of other data services and those of audio and video data streams. The stream event contains link information and time information. Directories are folders for combining interrelated data. The data consists of a group of modules and is transmitted.

A module is divided into blocks for every predetermined unit. Each block is allotted a header and converted into a format referred to as DBB Download Data Block . On the other hand a control message referred to as DII Download Inform Indication containing information on the size of a module required for receiving the module at the receiver side and a control message referred to as DII Download Server Initiate containing information which indicates the address of a root directory of a data service at the receiver side are created. The three types of messages i.e. DBB DSI and DSI are periodically and repeatedly outputted and transmitted in an annular structure referred to as a carousel so that the reception side can receive it at any time.

As shown in the receiving equipment in each household includes the parabola antenna the IRD the storage device and the television set . As shown in a recording and reproducing apparatus A in which a magnet optical disk referred to as MD mini disk is used as a recording medium serves as a storage device. The recording and reproducing apparatus A in this embodiment is a video recorder corresponding to the connection of the bus line of the IEEE1394 type. A description will now be given to a case where the IRD and the recording and reproducing apparatus A are connected by the IEEE1394 bus line . The recording and reproducing apparatus A in compliance with IEEE1394 can store audio data on songs selected in the IRD jacket data on the songs and text data including lyric data. It is to be noted that a plurality of e.g. up to 64 equipment can be linked by the so called link connection and a plurality of storage devices can be also connected to the IRD by the IEEE1394 bus line .

The input terminal T is a terminal to which a reception signal converted into a signal at a predetermined frequency is inputted at LNB . The analog video output terminal T is a terminal for supplying an analog video signal to the television set . The analog audio output terminal T is a terminal for supplying an analog audio signal to the television set . The analog audio output terminal T is a terminal for supplying an analog audio signal to the analog input of the storage device. The optical digital output interface which complies with IEC958 transmits PCM audio data to an optical fiber cable not shown . The IEEE1394 interface transmits video data audio data various commands and the like to the IEEE1394 bus line. The man machine interface transmits data inputted as an infrared signal from the remote control device by the user to a control CPU . The IC card is inserted into the IC card slot . The modem is connected to the accounting server through the telephone line . The infrared interface is an interface for controlling the storage device using the infrared signal from the control CPU . An infrared signal for controlling storage device control is outputted from an infrared output unit connected to the infrared interface through a predetermined signal line.

The tuner selects a signal at a predetermined reception frequency from reception signals supplied from the terminal T based on a set signal from the control CPU conducts modulation processing and error correcting processing to the signal and outputs an MPEG transport stream. A descrambler receives the MPEG transport stream from the tuner receives key data for the descrambler stored in the IC card through the IC card slot and the control CPU and conducts descrambling using this key data. The transport IC receives a command inputted by the user from the remote control through the man machine interface and the control CPU and extracts desired TV program MPEG video data and MPEG audio data from the transport stream. The MPEG video decoder converts the MPEG video data supplied from the transport IC to video data which is not yet subjected to data compression. The MPEG audio decoder converts the MPEG audio data supplied from the transport IC to audio data PCM audio data which is not yet subjected to data compression. The DA converter converts the audio data supplied from the MPEG audio decoder to an analog audio signal and supplies the signal to the analog audio output terminal T.

The control CPU controls the entire IRD . In this case operational memories and are connected to the control CPU . The memory which is a data rewritable memory stores MHEG data and sound addition information which form the GUI screen from the transport stream received by the tuner and extracted by the transport IC . The memory which is a nonvolatile memory in which programs are installed at the time of manufacturing the IRD stores various programs necessary to start the IRD in advance. The programs stored in the memory includes for example resident programs started based on the MHEG data for conducting processings such as creating the GUI screen and controlling the storage device connected to the IRD .

Also the control CPU receives a command inputted by the user using the remote control device through the man machine interface . The modem is connected to the control CPU . Information necessary for accounting is stored in the IC card . The information stored in the IC card is fed to the accounting server see through the telephone line using the modem .

The control CPU creates data for a list page screen for a music information page screen and for a GUI screen. The screen data thus formed is written in predetermined areas of a buffer memory in the MPEG video decoder . As a result as shown in the list page screen of songs to be broadcast the information screen of the respective songs and the GUI screen can be displayed in designated areas of a screen.

In the IRD shown in if a user selects a channel in the music content transmission system which has been described so far the GUI screen shown in is displayed on the screen of the television set .

During this time the reception signals inputted to the terminal T are supplied to the tuner . The tuner selects signals at a predetermined reception frequency from the reception signals based on signal setting from the control CPU conducts modulation and error correction processing on to the selected signals and outputs an MPEG transport stream.

The output of the tuner is supplied to the descrambler . Key data for descrambling stored in the IC card is inputted to the descrambler through the IC card slot and the control CPU . Using the key data the MPEG transport stream is subjected to descrambling. The MPEG transport stream which has been subjected to descrambling is fed to the transport IC .

A command issued from the remote control device by the user is inputted to the transport IC through the man machine interface and the control CPU . MPEG video data and MPEG audio data for a desired TV program are extracted from the transport stream in accordance with the command and fed to the MPEG video decoder and the MPEG audio decoder respectively.

Data separation processing of the transport IC is executed by a demultiplexer contained in the transport IC . shows the constitution of the demultiplexer which comprises a PID filter and a section data filter . The PID filter determines the PID packet ID of an inputted transport stream packet separates the audio data and the video data and supplies them to their corresponding decoders. Sound addition information is also separated and fed toward the control CPU . The section data filter separates and sends desired section data such as MHEG data toward the control CPU .

The MPEG video data fed to the MPEG video decoder is converted to video data which is not yet subjected to data compression converted to a composite video signal by an NTSC conversion block and then outputted to the television set from the analog video output terminal T. The MPEG audio data fed to the MPEG audio decoder is converted to audio data which is not yet subjected to data compression converted to an analog audio signal by the DA converter and then outputted to the television set from the analog audio output terminal T.

A song is selected from the song list B on the GUI screen shown in . If the user wishes to listen to the audio data on the selected song MPEG audio data is extracted from the transport IC decoded by the MPEG audio decoder converted to an analog signal by the DA converter and outputted from the analog audio output terminal T to the television set .

In addition the download button is depressed on the GUI screen shown in . If audio data is to be downloaded audio data is extracted from the transport IC and outputted from one of the analog audio output terminal T the optical digital output interface and the IEEE1394 interface .

That is to say as shown in if the recording and reproducing apparatus A in compliance with IEEE1394 is connected to the IEEE1394 interface four fold speed ATRAC data is extracted at the transport IC and fed to the recording and reproducing apparatus A in compliance with IEEE1394 through the IEEE1394 interface . At this moment the jacket data compressed by the JPEG method is extracted at the transport IC and fed to the recording and reproducing apparatus A in compliance with IEEE1394 through the IEEE1394 interface . Furthermore at the same moment text data such as data on lyrics the profile of the artist and the like is extracted at the transport IC and fed to the recording and reproducing apparatus A compliant with IEEE1394 through the IEEE1394 interface .

If the storage device of a type which is not provided with an IEEE1394 interface is connected to the optical digital output interface MPEG audio data is extracted at the transport IC and decoded by the MPEG audio decoder . Then PCM audio data is fed to the storage device through the optical digital output interface which constitution will be described later.

Next a description will be given to the operation of the recording and reproducing apparatus A compliant with IEEE1394 during recording.

If the IEEE1394 interface is connected to the IEEE1394 interface of the IRD shown in the audio data on songs text data on lyrics and the like and static image data on jackets and the like fed from the IEEE1394 interface are inputted from the IEEE1394 interface and recorded on the disk by the recording and reproducing unit . As will be described later respective items of data are recorded on the disk in the extended MD format at this moment. In addition copyright information on each data is also inputted from the IEEE1394 interface and recorded in a corresponding table of contents information TOC area.

If PCM audio data is inputted from an external side to the optical digital input interface the PCM audio data inputted is encoded by the ATRAC encoder and recorded on the disk by the recording and reproducing unit .

If an analog audio signal is inputted from an external side to the analog audio input terminal T the analog audio signal inputted is converted to a digital signal by the AD converter encoded by the ATRAC encoder and then recorded on the disk by the recording and reproducing unit .

That is in the recording and reproducing apparatus A compliant with IEEE1394 only if the apparatus A is connected to the IRD through the IEEE1394 interfaces lyric data and static image data on jackets as well as audio data on songs are recorded on the disk. If the apparatus is connected thereto through the optical digital interface or at the analog audio output terminal only audio data is recorded on the disk.

During reproduction a reproduction signal can be outputted from the IEEE1394 interface or the analog audio output terminal T. If the reproduction signal is outputted from the IEEE1394 interface and not only audio data on songs but also data on the lyrics of the songs and that on the jackets thereof are recorded on the disk it is possible to output music data to audio equipment such as an amplifier in compliance with IEEE1394 to display the lyric data and jacket data on a display in compliance with IEEE1394 and to print them out by a printer in compliance with IEEE1394.

As stated above the recording and reproducing apparatus A compliant with IEEE1394 to which the present invention may be applied is capable of recording and reproducing not only audio data on songs but also data on the lyrics of the songs and data on the jackets thereof.

The above described recording and reproduction can be carried out by using an extended MD format shown in . As shown therein audio data on songs is recorded in a Main Data area by the ATRAC method. This is the same as the existing MD format. The ATRAC audio data up to 74 minutes is recorded in the Main Data area. Table of contents information such as recording positions of the respective songs and auxiliary TOC information such as copy prohibition information on the respective songs are recorded in a User Table Of Contents area for the audio data recorded on the Main Data area. In the extended MD format the above described jacket data static image data lyric data text data and the like are recorded in a 2.8 Mbyte Auxiliary Data area. TOC information on the data recorded in this Auxiliary Data area is recorded in an Auxiliary TOC area. At this moment auxiliary TOC information such as copy prohibition information for the static image data and text data is recorded in the Auxiliary TOC information area. Thus if the extended MD format is employed it is possible to record and reproduce not only audio data on songs but also jacket data and lyric data. It is also possible to maintain compatibility with the existing MD format.

Next a description will be given to the processing for downloading ATRAC audio data on songs which is a music program and jacket data and lyric data as sound addition information in a receiving device with reference to the flow chart of .

First a user selects an EMD Electric Music Download channel i.e. a music broadcast channel allowing downloading music data as stated so far in the IRD in a step . Specifically while looking at an EPG screen displayed on the television set the user issues a channel selection command to the remote control device . In the IRD the control CPU receives the user s channel selection command through the man machine interface transmits a channel setting signal to the tuner to thereby set a desired channel.

If this channel is selected the control CPU determines whether or not MHEG data for creating a GUI screen list screen exists on the selected channel while referring to section data referred to as PMT Program Map Table in a step . If no MHEG data for GUI screen exists the CPU determines that the selected channel is not for download processing in this embodiment and finishes the processing. If the channel from which the above stated ATRAC audio data is transmitted is selected MHEG data for GUI screen exists. The control CPU then starts a program prepared in advance in the operational memory for interpreting MHEG data and interprets the received MHEG data in a step .

Thereafter based on the interpreted MHEG data the control CPU creates image data for the GUI screen supplies the image data to the decoder and causes the data to be displayed on the screen of the television set connected to the IRD in a step . The GUI screen displayed at this moment is a screen shown in for example . Here the control CPU stands by until the operation of selecting a song displayed on the screen and that of downloading the selected song are conducted by the key operation of the remote control device in a step . If a remote control signal corresponding to the operation of depressing a portion on which download is indicated is supplied the CPU starts a get device program among the resident programs prepared in advance in the memory acquires the equipment ID of the storage device A connected by the IEEE1394 bus line using the program and carries out processing for passing the MHEG data to the execution processing unit in a step . An equipment ID means an identification code of predetermined bits 64 bits in this embodiment allotted in advance to an equipment connected by the IEEE1394 bus line. An equipment manufacturer code an equipment type code an equipment serial code and the like are set into a predetermined standard arrangement. By determining the equipment ID by means of the program prepared in the memory the control CPU can know the type and function of the connected equipment. The details of the processing for acquiring an equipment ID by mean of a resident program will be described later.

If the control CPU acquires the equipment ID of the storage device connected to the IRD the CPU creates GUI data for displaying a list of the equipment connected thereto based on the equipment ID and supplies the GUI data to the decoder to thereby display the GUI data on the screen of the television set connected to the IRD in a step . Here the control CPU stands by until the operation of selecting the equipment displayed on this screen is carried out by the key operation of the remote control device in a step . If a remote control signal corresponding to the operation of selecting this equipment is supplied the CPU stands by until the ATRAC data on the song for which the download command is issued by the user is received. When reception timing comes the ATRAC data on the song static image data JPEG data such as data on the jacket of the song and text data such as lyric data are fed to the selected equipment storage device from the IEEE1394 interface through the bus line . The data transmitted from the IEEE1394 interface is allotted a node ID set to the selected equipment as a transmission destination address. Also the ATRAC data which is the audio data on the song is subjected to isochronous transfer synchronous transfer . JPEG data and text data are subjected to asynchronous transfer. Control data for executing processing for recording ATRAC data to be transmitted in the transmission destination equipment is also subjected to asynchronous transfer. By so doing the data fed to the bus line is recorded on the connected equipment i.e. in this embodiment the disk mounted at the recording and reproducing apparatus A compliant with IEEE1394 in a state shown in .

The control CPU determines whether or not the download of all of the data on the songs selected by the IEEE1394 bus line is finished in a step . If the CPU determines the download is finished it then determines whether or not a command to download another song is issued in a step . If the latter command is issued the CPU conducts processing for downloading the song back in the step . If the CPU determines that the download of all of the selected songs is finished the download processing is finished. It is noted that if the ATRAC audio data is pay data predetermined accounting processing is carried out at the time of downloading the ATRAC audio data and the like which accounting processing will not be described in detail herein .

Next the processing for acquiring the equipment ID by means of the resident program shown in the flow chart will be described in detail with reference to the flow chart of and the view indicating the correspondence of programs with addresses shown in . First the states of programs will be described with reference to . The received MHEG data is stored in the memory connected to the control CPU . The MHEG data contains programs script created by the broadcasting station. For example a program for commanding download processing download program a program for controlling the connected storage device control device program a program for acquiring the equipment ID of the connected storage device get device program and variables setting areas set by the respective processings are prepared. In addition the control CPU sets addresses of resident programs corresponding to commands from the programs for various processings. The memory stores resident programs as stated above and programs for executing the commands are prepared in advance at predetermined addresses respectively.

Description will now be given to the processing for acquiring the equipment ID by using a resident program in a state in which the respective programs are set as stated above based on the flow chart of . If a command corresponding to the operation of depressing the download button in the step in the flow chart of is issued the name of a resident program get device program in this embodiment to be started by the operation of the script is passed to an operation processing unit in the control CPU in a step . This operation processing unit determines the recording address at which a corresponding program get device program is stored in the memory based on the data on the correspondence of the resident programs prepared by the IRD with addresses and sends a command to execute the program at the address in a step .

By the issuance of the execution command the get device program stored in the memory is executed by the operation processing unit in the control CPU in a step . By executing this get device program the data for requesting the return of the equipment ID is transmitted from the IEEE1394 interface to all the nodes equipment connected to the interface by the bus line by means of for example asynchronous transfer. All of the nodes at which the data is received return the equipment IDs allotted thereto to the IRD through the bus line by means of asynchronous transfer and the returned data is supplied to the control CPU from the IEEE1394 interface . If the equipment IDs are transmitted to the control CPU the control CPU determines the types of the equipment from the transmitted equipment IDs.

At this moment if there is provided an equipment such as the IEEE compliant recording and reproducing apparatus A connected to the IRD as shown in serving as a storage device capable of recording ATRAC audio data then the control CPU creates image data for displaying a list of the equipment on the screen using the resident program and supplies the image data to the decoder to thereby display the data on the screen of the television set connected to the IRD in a step . As for the display of the equipment list the names of types such as abbreviations of type names including MD DVD PC and the like of the equipment which are determined from the equipment IDs are displayed. If a plurality of equipment have the same name number added names such as MD ad MD are displayed. In some cases more detailed information such as the names of manufacturers may be displayed. The step of user s selecting the equipment and the following steps are the same as those described with reference to the flow chart of .

By conducting these processings if the equipment serving as a storage device capable of recording ATRAC audio data is connected to the IRD through the IEEE1394 bus line processing for creating a list of equipment connected thereto is started based on the MHEG data transmitted from the broadcasting station together with the ATRAC audio data. Since the processing is executed by the resident program prepared in advance in the IRD the list is displayed and the equipment to which the ATRAC audio data and the like are downloaded can be easily selected. Although the list is apparently displayed by the IRD from the MEHG data transmitted from the broadcasting station the detail of the processing for acquiring the equipment ID is actually executed by the resident program prepared in the IRD and the equipment ID acquisition processing is appropriately conducted based on the actual constitution of the IRD . If in particular using the IEEE1394 bus line a large number of equipment such as 64 equipment can be connected to the IRD so that the selection processing in a case a plurality of equipment is connected to the IRD through the bus line can be efficiently conducted based on the displayed list.

The processings shown in the flow chart of indicate that the equipment IDs are acquired and a list of all the connected equipment is displayed whenever download processing is selected. However the equipment ID or the like of a selected equipment may be stored so that the equipment having the stored ID can be preferentially used in the next download processings. The flow chart of shows these processings. The step in which the user selects an EMD channel in the IRD to the step of downloading the selected song are the same as those in the flow chart of .

Now if the operation of depressing the download button is conducted in a step the control CPU for controlling in the IRD conducts processing for acquiring the equipment ID by default for the CPU in a step . By executing this processing it is determined whether or not the default equipment ID which has bee acquired before exists in the control CPU in a step . If there is the default equipment ID the control CPU creates image data for confirming that the data is downloaded to the default equipment and displays the data on the screen of the television set to thereby make the user confirm that the data is downloaded to the default equipment in a step . If the download of data to the equipment is selected by the operation of the remote control device the download of data to the default equipment is executed in the same manner as that in the processing of the step in the flow chart of already described above in a step . It is then determined that the download processing is finished in a step . The equipment ID of the equipment to which the data is downloaded is stored in a predetermined memory in the control CPU and set as a default ID in a step . Thereafter it is determined whether or not another data to be downloaded exists in a step . If it exists the processing goes back to the step . If it does not the download processing is finished.

If it is determined that the ID of the default equipment does not exist in the step and the download of data to equipment other than the default one is selected in the step the processing goes to a step in which processing for acquiring an equipment ID by the get device program is conducted and a equipment list is displayed based on the acquired equipment ID. Then an equipment is selected from the list by user s operation in a step and the download of data to the selected equipment is executed in a step . The processings in the steps to are the same as those in the steps to which have been already described above with reference to the flow chart of . After download starts in the step the processing goes to the step in which the CPU stands by until the download is finished. The equipment ID of the equipment to which data is downloaded is stored in a predetermined memory in the control CPU and set as a default equipment in a step .

In this way if the ID of the equipment used in the previous download processing is stored as a default in the IRD next time there is no need to conduct processing for acquiring the ID of the equipment connected by the bus line thereby making it possible to reduce time required for selection processing. In addition since only the confirmation operation in the step is necessary as the selection operation required of the user it is possible to make operation quite simple.

It is noted that although the above described embodiment concerns processing for downloading data to the storage device connected to the IRD through the IEEE1394 bus line it is possible to download data to a storage device which is not provided with an IEEE1394 interface. shows an example of the system constitution of the receiving equipment in the latter case. A disk recording and reproducing apparatus B in which a magneto optical disk called MD is used serves as the storage device prepared in the case of . The apparatus B is provided with an optical digital input interface which is connected to the optical digital output interface of the IRD by an optical cable or coaxial cable to allow transmitting digital data. Also the apparatus is provided with a man machine interface at which a remote control signal is inputted by infrared radiation. An infrared output unit connected to the infrared interface see of the IRD is arranged in the vicinity of the infrared receiving unit of the man machine interface

The constitution of the disk recording and reproducing apparatus B is shown in . The basic constitution for recording and reproducing data on from the disk is the same as that of the disk recording and reproducing apparatus A shown in . The disk recording and reproducing apparatus B however lacks an IEEE1394 interface and the man machine interface at which a remote control signal is inputted is connected to a control CPU . The remaining constitution is the same as that of the disk recording and reproducing apparatus A shown in .

With this constitution some setting screen such as an initial setting screen is displayed on the television set based on GUI data created by the control CPU in the IRD . Selection operation is conducted on the screen by for example operating the remote control device to thereby set that the disk recording and reproducing apparatus B is connected to the IRD by user s operation. In this case the type of the connected equipment or the like is set by the user s operation. Based on the information set by the user s operation the control CPU allots an equipment ID peculiar to the connected equipment. For example if the ID of the equipment connected by the above stated IEEE1394 bus line consists of 64 bits the equipment ID set by the user s operation consists of 65 bits one bit allotted to the least significant bit of the 64 bits so that the allotted one bit allows recognizing that the code of 65 bits is allotted by user s setting. The 64 bits other than the least significant one bit are set based on a state set by the user. Alternatively those other than the least significant one bit may be ignored.

If a download command is issued the received MPEG audio data is decoded by the audio decoder in the IRD to digital audio data which is then supplied to the optical digital input interface of the disk recording and reproducing apparatus B from the optical digital output interface by the optical cable . The control CPU of the IRD creates a command to control recording operation in the recording and reproducing apparatus B and outputs the command from the infrared output unit to the man machine interface of the recording and reproducing apparatus B through the infrared interface . As a result the digital audio data supplied through the optical digital cable can be recorded on the disk. Here the recording and reproducing apparatus B encodes and compresses the supplied audio data to ATRAC audio data and records the encoded ATRAC audio data.

At the timing at which download processing is finished the control CPU in the IRD creates a command to stop recording in the recording and reproducing apparatus B and outputs the command from the infrared output unit to the man machine interface of the recording and reproducing apparatus B through the infrared interface . As a result the operation of recording data on the disk can be stopped.

It is noted that in case of downloading data to the storage device through the connection which does not employ a bus line the static image data and text data attached to the music data are not transmitted and only the audio data is recorded on the disk.

With this constitution it is possible to deal with the download of data to a storage device which is not provided with an interface to an IEEE1394 bus line.

The above stated embodiment concerns processing for downloading audio data to the storage device in which a recording medium referred to as MD mini disk is used. However the present invention is also applicable to processing for downloading other audio data obtained from the external unit image data electronic mail data various internet content data and the like to the connected storage device based on the program data transmitted simultaneously with the above data from the data transmission side.

Next description will be given to processing for downloading copyright information conducted at the time of downloading the ATRAC audio data received in the IRD with reference to the flow chart of . The processing for downloading copyright information is executed when for example data is downloaded to the selected equipment in the step shown in the flow chart of .

First if an MHEG channel is selected as a channel to be received and selected at the tuner in a step the PMT program map table of the channel is acquired in a step . Here the MHEG channel is of carousel structure in which data blocks are periodically and repeatedly transmitted as described in . The PID packet ID of a control message referred to as DSI is detected by the transport IC in the IRD corresponding MHEG data is downloaded to the control CPU and a program directed by the MHEG data is started in the control CPU in a step .

The control CPU sets the PID of the DSI at the demultiplexer see in the transport ID and acquires DSI data in a step . The control CPU analyzes the acquired DSI data and acquires the PID of the DII having root directory information in a step . The control CPU sets the PID of the DII at the demultiplexer in the transport IC and acquires DII data in a step . Based on the DSI data and the DII data a file in the lower directory to be transmitted is read in a step . The control CPU determines whether or not necessary desired data could be acquired based on the data thus read in a step . The data necessary at this moment are copyright information on the audio data on the songs for which a download command is issued in the processing in the flow chart of and data attached thereto static image data text data and the like . If the copyright information cannot be read processing for re reading data is conducted back in the step .

If the copyright information on the respective data can be read in the step the copyright information read therein is allotted to the respective items of data audio data static image data text data and fed to the disk in the selected storage device disk recording and reproducing apparatus A in this embodiment through the IEEE1394 bus line in a step . In the disk recording and reproducing apparatus A to which the data is fed through the bus line the respective items of data are recorded on the disk in for example the extended MD format shown in in a step . Namely the ATRAC audio data on the songs are recorded in the Main Data area in the extended MD format copy information based on the copyright information as well as time information on the respective songs are recorded in the TOC information area the static image data and text data on the respective songs are recorded in the Auxiliary Data area and TOC information on the static image data and text data and copy information based on the copyright information are recorded in the Auxiliary TOC area.

As for the relationship between the copyright information transmitted from the transmission side and the copy information recorded on the recording medium digital if for example the transmitted copyright information is information for prohibiting digital copy copy information to be recorded in accordance with the data becomes a digital copy prohibiting code. If the transmitted copyright information is information for permitting digital copy for a predetermined time such as once copy information to be recorded in accordance with the data becomes a code for permitting digital copy once. If the transmitted copyright information is information indicating that digital copy is not restricted copy information to be recorded in accordance with the data becomes a code indicating that digital copy is not restricted.

These series of processings are conducted if the IRD is set to a state ensuring correct accounting processing. If the IRD is not set so data such as audio data is not transmitted to the recording apparatus from the IRD .

In the download processing shown in the flow chart of if the control CPU determines from the equipment IDs that the recording apparatus selected in the step to execute download processing is a recording apparatus in which data is recorded on a recording medium in a format which does not permit digital copy restriction processing then it is controlled that data having a copyright data which reproduction is restricted is not outputted from the IEEE1394 interface . For example like a hard disk recording and reproducing apparatus included in PC unit as a recording and reproducing apparatus to be downloaded when the apparatus is the apparatus which can basically conduct digital copy to other recording medium after recording to the recording medium it is controlled that data on a song having copyright is not transmitted to the recording and reproducing apparatus freely. If the MD mini disk stated above is a recording and reproducing apparatus A the MD format is constructed such that digital copy restriction processing can be appropriately conducted between the reproducing apparatus dealing with the MD and the other recording apparatus based on the copy information recorded in the TOC information whereby copyright can be protected.

If data is downloaded to the storage device connected to the IRD based on the copyright information transmitted from the transmission side the copyright information is also downloaded thereto to thereby record data based on the copyright information as well as data on the songs on the recording medium thus ensuring appropriate recording processing so as not to violate copyright. In this embodiment in particular copyright information on the static image data serving as jacket data and text data such as lyric data attached to the audio data on the respective songs is also individually transmitted whereby copy restriction processing for the respective recorded data can be appropriately conducted based on the copyrights for the respective data.

The above described embodiment concerns processing for downloading audio data to the storage device in which the recording medium referred to as MD mini disk is used. However the present invention is also applicable to a case where while other audio data obtained from the external unit image data electronic mail data various Internet content data and the like are downloaded to the connected storage device and recorded on the disk copyright information transmitted simultaneously with the above data from the data transmission side is recorded.

Next a description will be given to processing for retrieving a desired song at the time of downloading ATRAC audio data and the like received in the IRD . First the processing for retrieving a song is executed as follows. If the operation of the remote control device corresponding to that of depressing the recording reservation button on the screen is carried out in a state shown in for example in which the GUI screen is displayed the control CPU detects that an infrared signal is inputted by the man machine interface by the above operation. If the recording reservation button is depressed the GUI screen is switched under the control of the control CPU and a list of songs which can be reserved is displayed on the screen of the television set .

The list is displayed based on for example text data indicating the titles of songs and the names of performers. The text data is transmitted in a packet different from that of the text data indicating lyrics of the songs as stated above. As shown in for example text data on one song consists of a text data string having a character string of the name of the performer artist name a tab code a character string of the title of the song a line feed code arranged in this order. The text data on all of the songs each having this arrangement in this order and transmitted in a predetermined period of time e.g. in a day are fed from the transmission side periodically and repeatedly.

Based on the text data a list of songs which can be reserved is displayed. It is possible to display the list of songs simply in the order in which the songs are put on the air. However if the operation of the remote control device corresponding to the depression of a retrieval button not shown on the list display screen is conducted and the control CPU detects that an infrared signal is inputted by the man machine interface by this operation then retrieval processing based on the text data is started note that user operations other than this operation are also detected by the control CPU . The flow chart of shows this retrieval processings which will be described based on . First the control CPU controls the extraction of text data indicating the names of performers and the titles of songs from the data being broadcast in a step .

If the text data indicating the names of performers and the titles of songs are extracted they are stored in a memory connected to the control CPU . At this moment if the user designates retrieval items using the remote control device or the like the control CPU passes the data of the corresponding row or column number to a resident program in a step . Then if the user inputs character strings to be retrieved by the operation of the remote control device or the like in a step the character strings to be retrieved are set as variables to be referred to while the resident program is executing retrieval processing in a step .

Now the resident program conducts retrieval processing for extracting rows or columns including the character strings to be retrieved from the designated items and the text data including the extracted row or column is set as retrieved data in a step . After this processing it is determined whether or not all of the items have been retrieved in a step . If there exists data which is not retrieved yet processing returns to the step in which data retrieval is repeated. If all of the data have been retrieved the control CPU conducts control processing for displaying a list of characters in the designated row or column from the text data set as retrieved data in the step in a step . As a result of this control processing image data for displaying the retrieval result is supplied to the decoder and the retrieval result is thereby displayed on the screen of the television set connected to the IRD .

If the retrieval result includes a plurality of names and titles it is determined whether or not further retrieval is necessary to retrieve one name and one title from the result in a step . If further retrieval is to be conducted processing goes back to the step . If retrieval processing is finished input operation for selecting a user s desired song is carried out using the names of performers and titles of songs and a reservation is made for the download of the selected song in a step . This download reservation corresponds to the operation of depressing the download button in the step in the flow chart of . The following steps are the same as those in the step and the following of selecting equipment.

By conducting retrieval processing as stated above a desired song to be downloaded can be easily selected from the text data indicating the names of performers and the titles of songs transmitted as broadcast signals. Even if many songs are transmitted the user s desired song can be easily downloaded. In this embodiment in particular the text data indicating the titles of transmitted songs and the names of performers are arranged continuously by providing tab codes and line feed codes so that the data on the target song can be efficiently retrieved from the continuous text data.

The above described embodiment concerns processing for downloading audio data to the storage device in which the recording medium referred to as MD mini disk is used. However the present invention is also applicable to a case where while other audio data obtained from the external unit image data electronic mail data various internet content data and the like are downloaded to the connected storage device and recorded on the disk retrieval processing is conducted based on the text data attached to the main data among the above data.

In addition in the above embodiments the digital satellite broadcasting relaying by means of the artificial satellite is employed as a transmission line from the side of transmitting audio data or the like to the reception equipment. However other broadcasting transmission lines may be employed. For example an optical cable or coaxial cable referred to as cable TV may be employed. For example ATRAC audio data or the like may be transmitted through a predetermined channel on the transmission line directly connecting the transmission side and the reception equipment by a wired line and the same download processing as stated above may be conducted at the reception equipment side. It is also possible to use other transmission lines such as a telephone line.

In the above embodiments the storage device and the equipment are connected by the IEEE1394 bus line. It goes without saying that other types of data transmission lines may be employed instead of the IEEE1394 bus line.

According to the present invention the acquisition of information on the second equipment by the first program inputted from the external side to the first equipment is executed by the second program prepared in the first equipment. Due to this content data obtained from the external side can be easily downloaded to the connected equipment.

According to the present invention the copyright information as well as data is transmitted to the recording apparatus to thereby make it possible to record the copyright information as well as the data at the recording apparatus side. As a result copyright can be properly protected.

According to the present invention the retrieval means can retrieve necessary data based on the received text data string received by the receiving means and the control means can download the retrieved data.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications could be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and applications of the present invention. It is therefore to be understood that numerous modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

