---

title: Cable reel
abstract: The invention involves a novel configuration for a cable reel and two discs. The discs are disposed on opposite sides of the spool and the two discs are able to spin independently from the spool.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08444078&OS=08444078&RS=08444078
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08444078
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101118
---
This application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 314 884 filed Dec. 23 2005 now abandoned.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to a cable reel. More specifically but without limitation the present invention relates to a cable reel suited for one hundred pound fiber optic cable.

Currently the United States military stores fifteen hundred meter one hundred pound fiber optic cable on a reel that has a center made of four rods. The cable is wound around the four rods which bends the cable at about 90 degrees causing signal loss and permanent deformation to the cable. In order to deploy the cable a rod must be placed in the center hub of the spool and held at each end by two people while a third person unrolls or rewinds the cable. This utilizes valuable manpower and time especially in a military environment. Often the spool is rolled on the ground to deploy the fiber cable which damages the fragile cable due to spool hub and rim diameter differential.

Thus there is a need in the art to provide a spool without the limitations inherent in present methods.

The present invention is directed to a cable reel including a spool and two discs. The discs are disposed on opposite sides of the spool and the two discs are able to spin independently from the spool.

It is a feature of the invention to provide a cable reel that allows cable to be deployed by one person.

It is a feature of the invention to provide a cable reel that allows easier rewinding specifically to allow rewinding with a hand crank while the reel is stationary or rolling on the ground or in the back of a moving vehicle.

It is a feature of the invention to provide a cable reel that reduces failures increases the capability of the cable by protecting its inherent qualities increases mean time between failures reduces the amount of manpower required to employ these cables and reduce set up time and tear down time.

It is a feature of the invention to provide a cable reel that allows easier deployment of a cable specifically without stretching or dragging cable due to circumference differential of reel and cable as it reduces in diameter during deployment.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in the above referenced figures. As seen in and the cable reel includes a spool and two discs . The two discs may be disposed on opposite sides of the spool . The discs are attached to the spool such that the discs are able to spin independently from the spool . The two discs and the spool may be axially aligned.

In the discussion of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a fiber optic cable environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of need that requires use of a reel.

In the preferred embodiment the spool is a spool weldment or a one piece welded assembly. As seen in the spool includes a spool cylinder . The spool cylinder may be axially aligned with the two discs and the spool . The spool also includes two spool discs disposed at opposite axial ends of the spool cylinder . In operation the cable wraps around the spool cylinder . Each spool disc is juxtapositioned next to a corresponding disc or on opposite sides of the spool cylinder however the spool discs rotate independently from the discs . The spool and or discs may be manufactured from plastics composites aluminums or any material deemed practicable.

In the preferred embodiment the two discs are manufactured from aluminum and include rubber edge trim on the outer diameter of each of the discs . The cable reel may include bearings or a bearing system that allows the discs to be able to spin independently from the spool . In the one of the embodiments of the invention each disc has a larger outer diameter than each spool disc and each disc extends past each spool disc . In the preferred embodiment both discs are substantially similar and both spool discs are substantially similar.

The cable reel may also include a base and a handle . The base may be rotatably attached to the spool and the two discs . The spool may include an axle hub that is disposed within the spool cylinder . The spool cylinder and the axle hub may be axially aligned.

The axle hub may be a hollow tube with an inner diameter and an outer diameter . Each disc and the spool may include a center chamber passing through each respective center axis each center chamber may create an inner diameter for each disc and the spool . The axle hub may be disposed within each of these center chambers. The axle hub may hold the spool the two discs and the base together. A retaining ring installed onto axle hub prevents the discs from slipping off the axle hub .

The base may include a plurality of legs and an attachment portion . In the preferred embodiment there are two attachment portions that are each rotatably attached via the axle hub to the discs and the spool . Each attachment portion may be partially circular. As seen in two legs may extend from each attachment portion to the ground in order to stabilize and hold the cable reel . In the preferred embodiment there may be two attachment portions disposed on opposite sides of the spool and on the outside of each of the two discs . The base may include four legs two on each side two extending from each attachment portion and extending past the outside diameter of each disc . The two legs disposed on the same side of the cable reel the two legs juxtapositioned next to the same disc and extending from the same attachment portion may be attached to each other via a beam . At one of its ends each beam may also include a flange . Each flange may extend past the beam as well as the corresponding leg so that the flanges may hook onto a platform trailer or the like and allow a user to flip the cable reel onto the platform or trailer. The base may also include a crossbar that is attached to legs disposed on opposite sides of the cable reel . There also may be a trave that is attached to both those same legs only above the crossbar . In another embodiment of the invention the crossbar may be attached to each of the beams at opposite ends of the crossbar . The base may be manufactured from plastics composites aluminums metal or any material deemed practicable.

The handle may be a substantially u shaped bar which includes two side portions and a trave portion . Each side portion is attached to a leg of the base at a first end. The two side portions are attached to the trave portion at a second end. The trave portion has two opposite ends at which it is attached to the two respective side portions . As seen in each side portion is disposed on opposite sides of the cable reel .

The cable reel may also include a ratchet or hand crank. The ratchet may be a standard hand crank ratchet. The ratchet may include a ratchet adapter that allows the ratchet to be used to rotate the spool via the axle hub . The cable reel may also include a ratchet storage system for holding and securing the ratchet to the cable reel . The ratchet storage system may be clips or the like. The ratchet storage system may be disposed on the handle particularly on one of the side portions of the handle .

There may be two bearing systems in the cable reel . Each disc and spool disc may have a corresponding bearing system located on opposite sides of the cable reel . As shown in the bearing system may include a handle bearing and a wheel bearing . The handle bearing shown in may be a donut shaped annulus that includes a handle bearing bore fastener apertures for accepting fasteners and a handle bearing counter bore . The handle bearing bore and the handle bearing counter bore may axially correspond. The handle bearing may be manufactured from ultra thigh molecular weight polyethelene. The handle bearing may be attached to the attachment portion of the base . The handle bearing and the attachment portion may be attached or fastened in any manner practicable. As seen in the preferred fasteners are screws screwed into the fastener apertures . As seen in the wheel bearing may be a donut shaped annulus with a fillet at its inner diameter. As seen in the wheel bearing and the handle bearing may be axially aligned and in rotational communication with each other with the wheel bearing enveloping the handle bearing . The wheel bearing may also include wheel bearing fastener apertures . Wheel bearing fastener in wheel bearing attaches to the disc . As seen in the inner diameter of the disc may be in communication with the fillet specifically fitting and abutting into the corner created by the fillet . The wheel bearing may be attached to the disc . The preferred attachment or fastening method is screws via the wheel bearing fastener apertures . The wheel bearing may be manufactured from ultra thigh molecular weight polyethylene. The bearing system may also include a handle spacer and a handle spacer bushing and a reel spacer . The handle spacer shown in may be ring like and may be disposed between the attachment portion specifically abutting against the fillet the disc and the wheel bearing . The handle spacer and handle spacer bushing may envelop the outer diameter of the handle bearing . The handle spacer may be manufactured from vinyl foam. The reel spacer shown in may be ring like and may be disposed between the spool disc and the disc . As seen in the reel spacer may overlap or envelop the outer diameter of the wheel bearing . The reel spacer may be manufactured from polytetrafluoroethylene or Teflon .

The cable reel may also include a hub ratchet adapter . As seen in the hub ratchet adapter may be axially disposed within the axle hub specifically within the inner diameter of the axle hub . As seen in B and C the hub ratchet adapter may include a cylindrical portion and a polygonal portion . The cylindrical portion has a substantially circular cross section while the polygonal portion has a substantially polygonal cross section. The preferred embodiment of the polygonal portion has a hexagonal cross section. The cylindrical portion and the polygonal portion may be axially aligned. The hub ratchet adapter may include a bore and a tapered bore . The bore may extend through the polygonal portion toward the cylindrical portion . At or about the cylindrical portion or as shown in just into the cylindrical portion the bore turns into the tapered bore that tapers outward toward the outer diameter of the cylindrical portion .

The hub ratchet adapter may correspond to the ratchet specifically the ratchet adapter such that the ratchet may to be used to rotate the spool via the axle hub allowing the user to unwind or rewind the cable.

In operation the cable reel may be tipped such that the two discs are in contact with the ground and the base is not in contact with the ground. Once the cable reel is tipped and the two discs are in contact with the ground the discs may be rolled to another location without the cable being dispensed because the spool spins independently from the discs . To deploy the cable the discs may be rolled along the ground with the cable not secured. The axle hub rotates on the inside diameter of the handle bearing while the wheel bearing inside diameter rotates on the handle bearing outside diameter.

Referring to a cable reel embodiment is shown with one of disc and base comprising a bearing assembly pulled away from the cable reel assembly. In particular base includes legs and attachment portion . Handle bearing is coupled to attachment portion with screws in this embodiment which pass through attachment portion . Two handle spacer bushings one handle spacer and two additional handle spacer bushings are positioned on handle bearing and in proximity to the attachment portion . The handle bearing may be a donut shaped annulus that includes a handle bearing bore . Wheel bearing is inserted into an aperture in the center of disc and coupled with disc . Wheel bearing has an inner circumference which permits insertion of the handle bearing and relative rotation between the handle bearing and wheel bearing . Reel spacers are thin flat and circular shaped spacers which have an inner aperture having a diameter and circumference which permits them to be placed around a reel side of wheel bearing . shows a center line showing the axis of rotation for the reel assembly which the bearings and discs rotate around when they are assembled together in proximity with spool disc . also shows spool and adjustable plate coupled to the spool cylinder coupling not shown . Hidden lines show another set of installed reel spacers in a non exploded view on the opposing side of the spool from the reel spacers which is shown in exploded format. Base is shown including legs and a beam which form along with other components a supporting assembly for the spool assembly. Handle and u shaped side portions are also shown.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred versions thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred versions contained herein.

