---

title: Gesture control
abstract: An apparatus includes sensor circuitry configured to sense spatial phenomena; application circuitry configured to respond to sensation of a spatial phenomenon by the sensor circuitry where a pre-existing relationship exists between the spatial phenomenon and the response of the application circuitry; and regulation circuitry configured to regulate the response of the application circuitry to the spatial phenomenon based at least in part on sensation of a different spatial phenomenon by the sensor circuitry. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09304591&OS=09304591&RS=09304591
owner: Lenovo (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
number: 09304591
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20100810
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 853 715 entitled Assisted Zoom filed on Aug. 10 2010 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to techniques for controlling display of information.

A natural tendency exists for a person having difficulty seeing something on a display to move the display closer. This is particularly easy to do with a handheld display device. Physical movement however is not always sufficient for example where a user still cannot see information clearly or not always prudent for example where the device comes so close to a user s face that the user loses sight of his surroundings. Current zooming solutions require a user to use a manual zoom function such as touch screen mouse click etc. on the display device to increase the relative size of the item being viewed. Such an approach requires a manual often non intuitive action. As described herein various exemplary technologies provide enhanced control of zooming and optionally other display functions.

An apparatus includes sensor circuitry configured to sense spatial phenomena application circuitry configured to respond to sensation of a spatial phenomenon by the sensor circuitry where a pre existing relationship exists between the spatial phenomenon and the response of the application circuitry and regulation circuitry configured to regulate the response of the application circuitry to the spatial phenomenon based at least in part on sensation of a different spatial phenomenon by the sensor circuitry. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

As mentioned a natural tendency exists for a person having difficulty seeing information on a display to move the display closer. As described herein an operational mode can be implemented that allows a user to amplify or otherwise control or respond to a natural intuitive reaction e.g. such as a user bringing a display closer to see displayed information more clearly . Such a mode can rely on one or more types of sensors. For example sensor circuitry configured to sense a shrinking distance between a user and a device can automatically provide zooming functionality according to a zoom amplification factor which may be selectable e.g. scalable by a user. In a particular example a user could set a zooming amplification factor to 2 such that when the device moved from 60 cm to 50 cm physical zoom is 10 cm the device zooms the display to effectuate a virtual 20 cm zoom e.g. as if the device moved from 60 cm to 40 cm . Types of sensors can include camera proximity light accelerometer audio gyroscope etc. for example to provide a signal or data sufficient to determine distance between a device and a user.

As described herein a device may automatically activate zoom in or out functionality based at least in part on distance between a device and an object e.g. user head user hand etc. . As described herein the functionality may depend on the information being displayed by a device an application executing on a device etc. For example a device may implement a reverse zoom to display more information such as for a map of a GPS application where the GPS application reacts inversely to a photo or video display application. In a GPS example as a user moves away from a display of a device sensor circuitry can detect the change in distance and display more geography as if the user was flying away from the ground.

As described herein in various examples sensor circuitry of a device can be configured to sense one or more gestures. For example sensor circuitry may be configured to distinguish movement of an object with respect to a device from movement of the device e.g. movement of a face moving versus movement of a handheld device .

As described herein a device can include circuitry to determine whether a person is walking driving etc. Such circuitry may filter out walking or otherwise ignore signals associated with walking. Where a device includes camera or video circuitry certain movement may optionally activate anti motion circuitry to enhance quality of image capture.

In the example of the control circuitry includes sensor circuitry for sensing GUI s circuitry for display and control of one or more GUIs e.g. the on off buttons and cross hairs circuitry for display and control of cross hairs . The control circuitry further includes control circuitry that may be application or function specific. For example application specific circuitry includes application controls one or more application programming interfaces APIs and one or more GUIs. The APIs may allow for interactions between an application and sensor circuitry. Photo specific circuitry includes photo controls as well as previous next and open close functionality that may be implemented in conjunction with thumbnails such as the thumbnails . Video specific circuitry includes video controls as well as play stop pause and forward reverse functionality that may be implemented in conjunction with thumbnails such as the thumbnails . Map specific circuitry includes map controls as well as sky view and terrain view functionality which may depend on angle of the display . For example an angle sensor e.g. gyro or accelerometer may sense angle of a display optionally with respect to gravity and render a map view based at least in part on the sensed angle. In such an example as the angle moves from the display being oriented horizontally to being oriented vertically the view may change from a sky view e.g. overhead to a terrain view e.g. side or street view .

In a particular example the device is configured via application circuitry to change display of information from a landscape view to a portrait view and vice versa based on orientation of the device with respect to gravity. According to the method upon sensor circuitry sensing an audio command e.g. stop the regulation circuitry implements a regulatory control action that disables or stops the landscape portrait response of the application circuitry. With this feature disabled the user may turn the device for example for viewing displayed information without worrying about the device automatically shifting the display from landscape to portrait or vice versa.

In the foregoing example two different types of phenomena are sensed where sensation of an audio phenomenon regulates a response to a spatial phenomenon. As described herein in an alternative arrangement a spatial movement may regulate another spatial movement. For example a quick roll of the device e.g. about a z axis may be sensed by sensor circuitry and regulate a pre determined response a different spatial movement such as a 90 degree rotation e.g. about an x axis . Spatial movement may be distinguished based on one or more characteristics such as pitch yaw or roll velocity acceleration order etc. As to order a spatial input may include for example movement from a right to left or b left to right or c top left to top right to bottom right etc. Combinations of phenomena may be sensed as well e.g. consider sensing an audio command in combination with sensing a top right position of a device . Combinations may aid in registering sensed input or defining a coordinate space relative to a device.

In the example of the sensor circuitry is shown as being configured to sense audio e.g. spoken commands and the sensor circuitry is shown as being configured to capture images such as an image of a user. Image analysis circuitry may be configured to determine one or more metrics for calculation of a distance between the device and the user e.g. to determine proximity to a user .

The application circuitry can include one or more pre existing application responses to sensed information whether sensed information based on a single sensor or multiple sensors. For example an application may be configured to switch from a landscape to a portrait view on a display based on sensed information that indicates the device has been rotated. The regulation circuitry may be configured to regulate such responses based on sensed information. For example where a device senses a quick rotation about an axis e.g. long axis in portrait view or long axis in landscape view such sensed information may act to disable the application circuitry s response to rotation about a different axis e.g. rotation about an axis that rotates a long axis of a display such as the z axis of the display of .

As described herein an apparatus such as the device of can include a planar display defining an outward pointing normal vector and an inward pointing normal vector sensor circuitry configured to sense an initial relative position of the planar display and configured to sense a change in relative position of the planar display and zoom circuitry configured to zoom an image presented on the planar display responsive to a change in relative position of the display sensed by the sensor circuitry wherein the change in relative position comprises a vector component along one of the normal vectors. An example of such a device is shown with respect to . Referring to the method of circuitry may be configured to determine that a zoom action should occur and circuitry may be configured as zoom circuitry to implement the called for zoom action.

As described herein a device may include control circuitry configured to control zoom circuitry based at least in part on relative rotational position of a display of the device about a normal vector of the display e.g. as sensed by sensor circuitry . A device may include control circuitry configured to control zoom circuitry based at least in part on at least one or more of a relative pitch position of a display as sensed by sensor circuitry a relative yaw position of a display as sensed by sensor circuitry and a relative roll position of a display as sensed by sensor circuitry. For example control circuitry may be configured to disable zoom circuitry based at least in part on relative position of a display as sensed by sensor circuitry. In various examples sensor circuitry may be configured to define a three dimensional coordinate system optionally with respect to gravity. In various examples a relative position of a display may be a relative position determined at least in part with respect to gravity. A device may include a camera as sensor circuitry to determine in part proximity of a planar display to an object and an accelerometer as sensor circuitry to determine in part a direction of Earth s gravity with respect to orientation of the planar display. A device may include a positioning system sensor e.g. GPS as sensor circuitry.

As described herein a method can include sensing a change in relative position of a planar display where the change includes a vector component along an outward pointing normal vector defined by the planar display responsive to the change zooming an image displayed on the planar display sensing a change in relative position of the planar display where the change includes a vector component along an inward pointing normal vector defined by the planar display and responsive to the change zooming an image displayed on the planar display. For example shows a method where zooming an image displayed on a planar display occurs when a change in relative position of the planar display occurs in a direction with a vector component along an inward pointing normal vector or in a direction with a vector component along an outward pointing normal vector. In an example of a device is shown along with a method where relative position pertains at least in part to proximity e.g. to a user s head . Hence a method may include sensing proximity of a planar display to an object.

As described herein one or more computer readable media can include processor executable instructions to instruct a processor to zoom an image displayed on a planar display responsive to a sensed change in relative position of the planar display where the change includes a vector component along an outward pointing normal vector defined by the planar display and zoom an image displayed on the planar display responsive to a sensed change in relative position of the planar display where the change includes a vector component along an inward pointing normal vector defined by the planar display.

As described herein an apparatus such as the device of can include sensor circuitry configured to sense spatial phenomena application circuitry configured to respond to sensation of a spatial phenomenon by the sensor circuitry where a pre existing relationship exists between the spatial phenomenon and the response of the application circuitry and regulation circuitry configured to regulate the response of the application circuitry to the spatial phenomenon based at least in part on sensation of a different spatial phenomenon by the sensor circuitry. For example shows various types of sensor circuitry and as well as application circuitry and regulation circuitry . The application circuitry may rely on one or more pre existing relationships to respond to sensed information and the regulation circuitry may regulate a response or responses based on sensed information. For example the sensor circuitry may sense audio and the sensor circuitry may sense video. Sensed information from such circuitry may cause the device to respond where the response is regulated by sensed video information.

As described herein regulation circuitry may be configured to disable response of application circuitry to spatial phenomenon for example responsive to sensation of the different spatial phenomenon. For example a yaw motion of the device e.g. top away may disable zooming along an inward or outward pointing normal vector e.g. as defined by a display . Similarly regulation circuitry may be configured to enable response of application circuitry to spatial phenomenon for example responsive to sensation of different spatial phenomenon. For example a yaw motion of the device may act as an on off switch for zooming. In such an example the same yaw motion may be used for on and off or different yaw motions may be used e.g. top away is on and bottom away is off .

As described herein a spatial phenomenon may be differentiated from another spatial phenomenon based on time e.g. a time dependency . For example a time dependency may be a velocity or acceleration where a slow steady movement registers as one spatial phenomenon and a fast accelerating movement registers as another different spatial phenomenon. A spatial phenomenon may depend on movement of an object with respect to a device e.g. user moving head toward the device . As described herein a device may be a mobile phone a tablet a notebook a slate a pad a personal data assistant a camera or a global positioning system device. A device may optionally include features of one or more such devices e.g. mobile phone with GPS and camera .

As described herein a device can include first sensor circuitry configured to sense a first type of physical phenomena second sensor circuitry configured to sense a second type of physical phenomena and application circuitry configured to respond to sensation of physical phenomena by the first sensor circuitry and the second sensor circuitry where a pre existing relationship exists between physical phenomena of the first type and the second type and the response of the application circuitry. shows the multiple input circuitry as being configured to combine first and second sensor circuitry inputs. Such inputs may be based on sensed distance sound light acceleration or other physical phenomena.

As described herein a method can include displaying information to a display sensing a first physical phenomena redisplaying information responsive to the sensing of the first physical phenomena where a pre existing relationship exists between the first physical phenomena and the redisplaying of information sensing a second physical phenomena and responsive to the sensing of the second physical phenomena regulating the pre existing relationship between the first physical phenomena and the redisplaying of information. For example shows a device configured with control circuitry that may zoom an image responsive to sensed proximity to a user. In this example a roll motion of the device e.g. a rotation may cause one of the thumbnail images to be displayed as the main image e.g. roll right selects next thumbnail image to the right of the currently displayed main image for display as the main image and roll left selects next thumbnail image to the left of the currently displayed main image for display as the main image . A rotation may be followed by a change in relative spatial position or a change in relative spatial position may be followed by a rotation. In such an example a user can readily navigate multiple images e.g. displayed thumbnails or yet to be displayed images and zoom in and out as desired. While spatial motions are mentioned one or more audio commands may be used for example to zoom or to select a different image for display as a main image e.g. consider audio commands such as in out next previous forward back etc. .

As described herein a device may be programmed to perform a method where redisplaying information includes orientating the information to maintain a prior relative orientation of the information for example where the prior relative orientation may be a landscape orientation or a portrait orientation.

As described herein a method can include sensing movement responsive to sensing of movement altering display of information on an apparatus sensing different movement and responsive to sensing of different movement disabling the altering. In such a method sensing movement may include sensing movement of the apparatus and sensing different movement may include sensing movement of an object with respect to the apparatus or vice versa . In such an example sensing different movement may depend on time e.g. optionally velocity or acceleration or one or more other time based factors .

In the device includes one or more sensors an operating system one or more APIs and one or more applications . For example a sensor may be a hardware device controlled by an operating system where one or more APIs allow an application to access data acquired by the sensor. As described herein an API may optionally allow an application to control a sensor e.g. set gain functionality etc. . Some examples of APIs include an auto rotate API a camera video API a sound API and a display API. For example an application may call a camera API to access camera data to determine head to device distance and call a display API to control a display e.g. to control rendering functionality for rendering information to the display .

As described herein various acts steps etc. can be implemented as instructions stored in one or more computer readable media. For example one or more computer readable media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a processor to zoom an image displayed on a planar display responsive to a sensed change in relative position of the planar display along an outward pointing normal direction and to zoom an image displayed on the planar display responsive to a sensed change in relative position of the planar display along an inward pointing normal direction.

In another example one or more computer readable media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a processor to sense a first type of physical phenomena to sense a second type of physical phenomena to respond to sensation of a physical phenomenon of the first type where a pre existing relationship exists between the physical phenomenon of the first type and the response and to regulate the response to the physical phenomenon of the first type based at least in part on sensation of a physical phenomenon of the second type.

The term circuit or circuitry is used in the summary description and or claims. As is well known in the art the term circuitry includes all levels of available integration e.g. from discrete logic circuits to the highest level of circuit integration such as VLSI and includes programmable logic components programmed to perform the functions of an embodiment as well as general purpose or special purpose processors programmed with instructions to perform those functions.

While various exemplary circuits or circuitry have been discussed depicts a block diagram of an illustrative example of a computer system . The system may be a desktop computer system such as one of the ThinkCentre or ThinkPad series of personal computers sold by Lenovo US Inc. of Morrisville N.C. or a workstation computer such as the ThinkStation which are sold by Lenovo US Inc. of Morrisville N.C. however as apparent from the description herein a device may include other features or only some of the features of the system .

As shown in the system includes a so called chipset . A chipset refers to a group of integrated circuits or chips that are designed to work together. Chipsets are usually marketed as a single product e.g. consider chipsets marketed under the brands INTEL AMD etc. .

In the example of the chipset has a particular architecture which may vary to some extent depending on brand or manufacturer. The architecture of the chipset includes a core and memory control group and an I O controller hub that exchange information e.g. data signals commands etc. via for example a direct management interface or direct media interface DMI or a link controller . In the example of the DMI is a chip to chip interface sometimes referred to as being a link between a northbridge and a southbridge .

The core and memory control group include one or more processors e.g. single core or multi core and a memory controller hub that exchange information via a front side bus FSB . As described herein various components of the core and memory control group may be integrated onto a single processor die for example to make a chip that supplants the conventional northbridge style architecture.

The memory controller hub interfaces with memory . For example the memory controller hub may provide support for DDR SDRAM memory e.g. DDR DDR2 DDR3 etc. . In general the memory is a type of random access memory RAM . It is often referred to as system memory .

The memory controller hub further includes a low voltage differential signaling interface LVDS . The LVDS may be a so called LVDS Display Interface LDI for support of a display device e.g. a CRT a flat panel a projector etc. . A block includes some examples of technologies that may be supported via the LVDS interface e.g. serial digital video HDMI DVI display port . The memory controller hub also includes one or more PCI express interfaces PCI E for example for support of discrete graphics . Discrete graphics using a PCI E interface has become an alternative approach to an accelerated graphics port AGP . For example the memory controller hub may include a 16 lane PCI E port for an external PCI E based graphics card. An exemplary system may include AGP or PCI E for support of graphics.

The I O hub controller includes a variety of interfaces. The example of includes a SATA interface one or more PCI E interfaces optionally one or more legacy PCI interfaces one or more USB interfaces a LAN interface more generally a network interface a general purpose I O interface GPIO a low pin count LPC interface a power management interface a clock generator interface an audio interface e.g. for speakers a total cost of operation TCO interface a system management bus interface e.g. a multi master serial computer bus interface and a serial peripheral flash memory controller interface SPI Flash which in the example of includes BIOS and boot code . With respect to network connections the I O hub controller may include integrated gigabit Ethernet controller lines multiplexed with a PCI E interface port. Other network features may operate independent of a PCI E interface.

The interfaces of the I O hub controller provide for communication with various devices networks etc. For example the SATA interface provides for erasing reading and writing information on one or more drives such as HDDs SDDs or a combination thereof. The I O hub controller may also include an advanced host controller interface AHCI to support one or more drives . The PCI E interface allows for wireless connections to devices networks etc. The USB interface provides for input devices such as keyboards KB mice and various other devices e.g. cameras phones storage media players etc. .

In the example of the LPC interface provides for use of one or more ASICs a trusted platform module TPM a super I O a firmware hub BIOS support as well as various types of memory such as ROM Flash and non volatile RAM NVRAM . With respect to the TPM this module may be in the form of a chip that can be used to authenticate software and hardware devices. For example a TPM may be capable of performing platform authentication and may be used to verify that a system seeking access is the expected system.

The system upon power on may be configured to execute boot code for the BIOS as stored within the SPI Flash and thereafter processes data under the control of one or more operating systems and application software e.g. stored in system memory . An operating system may be stored in any of a variety of locations and accessed for example according to instructions of the BIOS . Again as described herein an exemplary device or other machine may include fewer or more features than shown in the system of . For example the device of may include some or all of the features shown in the system e.g. as part of basic or control circuitry .

Although exemplary methods devices systems etc. have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed methods devices systems etc.

