---

title: Collaborative multi-facility medication management system
abstract: A computer implemented method and system is provided for managing health care and obtaining analytical insights using information related to health care in a collaborative environment. Health care users and health care providers access a medication management platform in the collaborative environment. The medication management platform comprises a medication management application and a research repository. The health care users and the health care providers interact and communicate with each other in the collaborative environment using collaborative tools provided on the medication management platform. The medication management application acquires health care information of the health care users' personal health records populated from health care information sources. The medication management application monitors and tracks the acquired health care information. The medication management application updates the de-identified research repository by consolidating the monitored and tracked health care information. The medication management application analyzes the consolidated health care information for obtaining the analytical insights.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08731965&OS=08731965&RS=08731965
owner: 
number: 08731965
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100717
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional patent application No. 61 226 737 titled Collaborative Multi Facility Medication Management System filed on Jul. 19 2009 in the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

The specification of the above referenced patent application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The computer implemented method and system disclosed herein in general relates to health care services. More particularly the computer implemented method and system disclosed herein relates to managing health care and obtaining analytical insights using information related to health care in a collaborative environment.

In the United States there are approximately 38 000 assisted living facilities ALFs providing housing and supervision or assistance with activities of daily living ADLs to about 975 000 people. The average age of residents in ALFs is 85 years and on an average the ALF residents are on six different prescriptions per month.

In ALFs medication is often administered by unlicensed assistive personnel who operate outside of a nurse delegation model but are entrusted with great responsibilities including for example medication profiling medication monitoring identification of drug drug drug food and drug lab interaction and manual coordination with a resident s pharmacy physician and family. This issue is further exacerbated by the fact that there is nearly an 80 turnover rate for these personnel. An estimated 106 000 fatal adverse drug events ADEs occur annually in the US. ALF residents tend to suffer from multiple chronic conditions visit multiple physicians and obtain medications from multiple pharmacies locally by mail order via the internet etc. This puts them at a higher risk for adverse drug events ADEs . A January 2008 survey conducted by the Center for Excellence in Assisted Living CEAL showed that the most likely types of medication errors include i medication out of stock or not delivered to an assisted living facility ALF due to dispensing errors ii medication given at the wrong time due to administering errors iii medication given at the wrong dose due to administering errors and iv wrong medication sent by the pharmacy due to dispensing errors.

Apart from the harm of ADEs to residents assisted living facility ALF managers are deeply concerned about the potential liability of managing resident medications. A single medication error can result in over a 150 000 claim and professional liability insurance can range between about 10 to about 15 of service costs. Hence there is a need for a system that reduces adverse drug events ADEs for residents improves compliance for staff and lowers liability costs for ALFs.

Furthermore assisted living facility ALF residents constitute a large cohort of high medication users whose medication usage is managed and logged on a daily basis. Their medication prescription administration usage and compliance information can provide invaluable research insights with significant potential benefits to multiple stakeholders including seniors assisted living industries pharmaceuticals physicians health care payers government organizations etc. Therefore there is a need for a system or an application that facilitates harvesting of ALF medication data for research purposes.

Hence in view of the foregoing there is a long felt but unresolved need for a computer implemented method and system that manages health care and obtains analytical insights related to health care in a collaborative environment.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described in the detailed description of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential inventive concepts of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The computer implemented method and system disclosed herein addresses the above stated need for managing health care and obtaining analytical insights related to health care in a collaborative environment. A medication management platform accessible by multiple health care users and health care providers is provided in the collaborative environment. The health care users and the health care providers are for example senior citizens assisted living facilities assisted living facility ALF residents nursing homes care giving facilities pharmaceuticals physicians health care payers government organizations etc. The medication management platform is for example a cloud computing based platform implemented as a service for developing and hosting scalable web applications and services for managing health care information. The medication management platform comprises a medication management application and a research repository component. Multiple collaborative tools are provided on the medication management platform for enabling the health care users and the health care providers to interact and communicate with each other in the collaborative environment. The collaboration tools comprise for example hosted applications for electronic mail chat instant messaging calendar voice and video messaging online sharing of documents work optimization elements etc. The collaboration tools facilitate collaboration between the health care users and the providers assisted living facility medication managers assisted living facility residents resident families pharmacies physicians etc.

The medication management application acquires health care information of the health care users personal health records populated from multiple health care information sources using for example the collaborative tools. Online portable personal health records of the health care users are acquired as one of the health care information sources. These online portable personal health records are integrated with the medication management application for acquiring specific health care information related to the health care users. The medication management application monitors and tracks the acquired health care information. The medication management application updates a de identified research repository of the research repository component by consolidating the monitored and tracked health care information. The medication management application analyzes the consolidated health care information in the updated research repository for obtaining analytical insights related to health care.

The research repository is for example a cloud computing based scalable research repository that incorporates different levels of security de identification of the consolidated health care information for safeguarding the privacy of the health care users and provides scalable access to researchers. The research repository component of the medication management platform further comprises an analytical processor. The analytical processor provides an analytical visualization dashboard for rendering pre built analytical insights and trends based on the consolidated health care information. The research repository component comprises multiple application programming interfaces APIs for querying and extracting data policies and metadata to facilitate research using the research repository. The research repository comprises multiple analytical data registries for obtaining the analytical insights that facilitate research on for example aging processes age related diseases and special needs of aged health care users drug post marketing surveillance early detection of adverse drug events study of prescription trends and usage study of compliance of medication by the health care users identification of off label drug use etc.

The medication management application acquires and stores prescription information and user information of the health care users across the health care providers subscribing to the medication management platform. The prescription information and the user information are acquired from the online portable personal health records of each of the health care users. The medication management application generates a daily medication schedule for each of the health care users based on administration instructions of the health care providers for prescription schedules of each of the health care users. The medication management application also generates a facility master schedule for each of the health care providers for managing schedules of health care users and staff members of each of the health care providers. The medication management application also tracks job schedules of each of the staff members of the health care providers and creates daily task lists for each of the staff members by collating information from the job schedules and the facility master schedule.

The medication management application further comprises a schedule optimization engine for evaluating on a daily basis availability schedules of the staff members of each of the health care providers against medication administration needs for each day from the facility master schedule for creating daily task lists for managerial planning and optimization. The medication management application further generates daily task lists for the staff members of each of the health care providers based on recommendations from the schedule optimization engine. The medication management application generates reports for operational and regulatory management to ensure health insurance portability and accountability act HIPAA compliance and compliance with state regulations and to facilitate managerial tracking.

Multiple collaboration tools are provided on the medication management platform. The collaboration tools comprise for example hosted applications for electronic mail email applications for calendar applications for instant messaging chat applications applications for voice and video messaging applications for online sharing of documents on the medication management platform work optimization elements etc. The collaboration tools enable the health care users and the health care providers to interact and communicate with each other in the collaborative environment. The collaboration tools provided on the medication management platform facilitate interaction and collaboration between the residents of the ALFs the residents families assisted living facility ALF medication administrators and managers pharmacies physicians etc. thereby providing seamless continuity of medication administration to residents when the residents visit their families.

The medication management application acquires the health care information of the health care users from multiple health care information sources. One of the health care information sources comprises for example online portable personal health records that are integrated with the medication management application for acquiring specific health care information related to the health care users. The health care information comprises for example information related to drug medication allergies and adverse drug reactions illness and hospitalization surgeries and other procedures vaccinations laboratory test results etc. In an embodiment the medication management application acquires the health care information from the health care users using the collaboration tools on the medication management platform. The health care information sourced from the health care users is stored in online portable personal health records or patient health records PHR provided to the health care users. As used herein PHR refers to an internet based set of tools that allows the health care users to access and coordinate their health care information and allow selective access of the health care information to health care providers and others who need the health care information. The PHR collects and tracks the health care information of the health care users. The collected health care information stored in the personal health records PHR allows the medication management platform to scale across residents of assisted living facilities ALFs families of the residents of the ALFs pharmacies physicians ALFs etc. The medication management platform employs the residents portable personal health records PHR as the central source of health care information. The medication management platform extracts and inserts data for example medication data into the PHRs based on access provided by the health care users. The ALF management functions deployed on the medication management platform are built around the PHR of the residents. By using an open PHR for example the Google PHR of Google Inc. the medication management platform can deploy the medication management application that is secure and portable across residents ALFs resident families pharmacies physicians insurers etc. In an embodiment the medication management platform incorporates smart medication carts and dispensers for managing medication of the health care users.

The medication management application monitors and tracks the health care information sourced from the health care users the online portable personal health records and other health care information sources. The medication management application consolidates the monitored and tracked health care information and updates the research repository on the medication management platform. The medication management application analyzes the consolidated health care information in the updated research repository for obtaining analytical insights related to health care. The analytical insights comprise for example prescription trends medication compliance among the health care users etc. The health care users use the updated research repository for understanding prescription or medication usage and compliance among seniors and for understanding aging processes age related diseases etc. The medication management platform tracks daily activities for example bathing exercising eating etc. of the residents of the assisted living facilities ALFs and correlates the tracked activities with the health care information to obtain additional research insights. The health care users medication prescription administration usage and compliance information provide invaluable research insights with potential benefits to multiple stakeholders for example seniors assisted living industry pharmaceuticals physicians health care payers government etc.

The medication management platform comprises a medication management application and a research repository component . The medication management application monitors and tracks the acquired health care information. The medication management application comprises a prescriptions module a daily medication scheduler a facility master scheduler a staff scheduler a schedule optimization engine a daily task generator a reporting module and a family collaborator . The medication management platform combines health care user information from multiple ALFs and creates the research repository component for use to support and accelerate research that improves the health and well being of the health care users.

The prescriptions module implements for example the Google Health personal health record PHR of Google Inc. with appropriate extensions and linkages. The Google Health PHR is a web based application. The Google Health PHR is based on a subset of the continuity of care record and allows the health care users to build their own health records in a private web space. The Google Health PHR comprises the complete and accurate health care information of the health care users. The medication management platform integrates the Google Health PHR with the medication management application using the atom publishing protocol APP . The APP receives the health care information from the health care users applies coding heuristics and allows managing heath care profiles of multiple health care users. In an embodiment the prescriptions module also implements for example the Microsoft HealthVault patient health record of Microsoft Corporation.

The prescriptions module acquires and stores prescription information and user information for example medication prescription details and resident information of the health care users herein referred to as residents across the health care providers for example assisted living facilities ALFs subscribing to the medication management platform . The prescriptions module acquires the prescription information and the user information from for example the online portable personal health records of each of the health care users. The medication management platform restricts access to the medication prescription details and the resident information at the individual resident level. The medication prescription details and the resident information are made available programmatically within the ALF that the resident belongs to. Although the medication management platform restricts access to the medication prescription details and the resident information by other ALFs the residents within an ALF are allowed to share the medication prescription details and the resident information with family members and other health care providers.

In an embodiment the medication management platform provides an interface for prescription systems. The interface for prescription systems in communication with the prescriptions module facilitates the tracking of prescription shipment and packaging information and correlates shipment and prescription crosscheck.

The daily medication scheduler is based on for example the Google Calendar application of Google Inc. The Google Calendar is a web based application for time management. The daily medication scheduler generates the daily medication schedule for each of the residents of the assisted living facilities ALFs . The daily medication schedule is based on the administration instructions for the resident s prescriptions. The daily medication scheduler makes the daily medication schedule available to the residents families. exemplarily illustrates a platform independent format of a sample resident daily medication schedule generated by the medication management application on the medication management platform . The daily medication scheduler sends reminders and alerts for medication administration based on the daily medication schedule.

The facility master scheduler combines the schedules of all the residents of the assisted living facility ALF and creates a facility master schedule for the ALF. The facility master schedule is used for generating the actual task lists for managing schedules of the staff members for example the medication administrators of the ALF. The staff scheduler tracks the job schedules for medical technicians and other staff members who are responsible for medication administration. The staff scheduler collates the job schedule information with the facility master schedule to create daily task lists for each of the staff members. The daily task lists assist the staff of the ALFs in their daily work.

The schedule optimization engine is an algorithm driven engine. The schedule optimization engine evaluates on a daily basis the availability schedules of the staff members for example the medical technicians against the medication administration needs for each day from the facility master schedule and creates daily task lists for each day. The evaluation performed by the schedule optimization engine guides the management of assisted living facilities ALFs in planning and optimizing their efforts and in generating daily operating efficiencies. The medication management application applies algorithms to correlate and optimize medical staff schedules with residents medication schedules to minimize effort and ensure compliance.

The daily task generator generates daily task lists for the staff members for example the medical technicians based on the recommendations from the schedule optimization engine . exemplarily illustrates a platform independent format of a sample daily task list generated by the medication management application on the medication management platform .

The reporting module generates and handles reports for both operational and regulatory management. The information required for the reports is derived from the logging aspects of the medication management platform to ensure compliance with health insurance portability and accountability act HIPAA state regulations and to facilitate other managerial tracking.

The family collaborator tracks information of families of the residents of ALFs and provides a mechanism for the families of the residents to reach out to the ALF medical technicians and vice versa. The family collaborator enables the families of residents to be integrally and actively involved in resident care.

As exemplarily illustrated in the research repository component comprises a de identification module an analytical processor and a research repository . The research repository consolidates the health care information monitored and tracked by the medication management application . The analytical processor analyzes the consolidated health care information in the research repository for obtaining analytical insights related to health care. The analytical processor provides an analytical visualization dashboard for rendering pre built analytical insights and trends based on the consolidated health care information. The research repository component further comprises application programming interfaces APIs for example research data APIs exemplarily illustrated in for querying and extracting data policies and metadata to facilitate research using the research repository . The APIs are interfaces defining the ways by which an application program requests for services from an operating system of the medication management platform .

The de identification module de identifies health care user information for a particular health care provider. For example the de identification module de identifies the resident information for an assisted living facility ALF . As used herein the term de identification refers to a process of removal of specific information for example name social security number medical numbers from the health care information of the health care users to protect the personal identification details of the health care users. The de identification module meets the privacy requirements of the residents. The de identified information is stored in the research repository . The de identified research repository supports research on human aging studies on prescription trends medication usage compliance among seniors etc. The research repository comprises multiple analytical data registries for obtaining the analytical insights that facilitate research on aging processes age related diseases and special needs of aged health care users drug post marketing surveillance early detection of adverse drug events study of prescription trends and usage study of compliance of medication by the health care users identification of off label drug use etc.

The analytical visualization dashboard provided by the analytical processor comprises a set of analytical trend information. The analytical trend information is built on the de identified information provided by the de identification module in different visualizations. The analytical trend information provides pre understood insights for example trends in usage of a particular medication over time etc. The analytical visualization dashboard having access to the de identified information serves as a front end for analytical queries. The research repository comprising the de identified information facilitates comparison of prescriptions across health care users correlated with age sex and activities of daily living support needed by a health care user.

The medication management platform as exemplarily illustrated in streamlines the medication administration process for assisted living facilities ALFs cost effectively and provides advanced collaboration through the collaboration tools for example email applications chat applications instant messaging applications and other work optimization elements. In an example the medication management platform is built on the Google App Engine of Google Inc. for providing a scalable fault tolerant web application environment. The medication management platform runs applications on Google s massively parallel web infrastructure which provides a robust development environment coupled with a fully maintained and supported infrastructure at minimal cost. In another embodiment the medication management platform provides an interface to statistical modeling tools for example SAS of SAS Institute Inc. MATLAB of MathWorks Inc. LabVIEW of National Instruments etc.

The Google App Engine comprises language specific frameworks for Python and Java languages for rapid application development. The Google App Engine software development kit SDK allows for building applications locally and then deploying to the Google App Engine platform. The Google App Engine comprises several APIs for leveraging Google functionality. The APIs comprise for example APIs for working with user accounts mail APIs for working with mail items chat APIs for working with voice and video chat APIs for working with a data store etc.

The PHR for example the Google PHR of Google Inc. allows the health care users to access and coordinate their lifelong health information and make appropriate parts of their health care information available to those who need the health care information. Multiple electronic and paper based information sources for each of the health care users for example the inpatient electronic medical record implemented by one or more hospitals prescriptions from pharmacies ambulatory EMR from physician offices and medical R history from health care payers are collected in the Google PHR . The medication management platform integrates the PHR with the multi entity medication management application and the two in conjunction feed the research repository . The research repository is a cloud computing based scalable research repository incorporating different levels of security de identification of the consolidated health care information for safeguarding privacy of the health care users and scalable access for researchers. The health care information fed into the research repository is de identified to protect the identity of the health care users. The cloud computing based research repository comprising the de identified information is massively scalable and accessible with appropriate level of security and provides easy access for researchers. The research repository component comprises APIs for example standard research data APIs for data extraction and policies and metadata to facilitate use. The research data APIs of the research repository component allow researchers to query and extract information for research from the research repository . Basic insights and trends are pre built in the analytical visualization dashboard of the analytical processor . The trends comprise for example medication prescription trends trends in the usage of a particular medication over time etc. The insights and trends are also correlated with the geography of the health care users to derive geo inferences for research and development .

The medication management platform utilizes for example Google BigTable of Google Inc. as a data store for the research repository . The research repository of the medication management platform is based on for example Google BigTable and is integrated with the medication management application . Google BigTable is a distributed database system for information storage. The Google BigTable is designed to scale to a very large size and easily accommodates the research repository requirements. The research repository component develops visualization and computationally intensive methods for mining large non homogeneous multi dimensional datasets to discover knowledge or obtain analytical insights from the acquired health care information. The medication management platform supports rapid information fetching through for example Google query language GQL and data visualization APIs. GQL is a language used to retrieve information from an application engine scalable information store for example the Google App Engine s data store.

The cloud computing based research repository comprises state of the art registries for example the analytical data registries used for accelerating research on for example aging processes compliance of medication by seniors age related diseases special needs of aged persons and for understanding prescription use and trends etc. The research repository comprises enhanced information on actual drug ingestion for example smoking status body mass index etc.

Pharmaceutical companies use the information in the research repository to conduct drug post marketing surveillance for improving early detection of drugs released in the market that cause unforeseen unwanted and harmful adverse drug effects ADEs . The medication management platform implements statistical techniques for example cluster analysis link analysis deviation detection and disproportionality assessment etc. for identifying ADEs. The research repository helps in identification of off label drug use. Physicians and caregivers may use the research repository for formulating evidence based best practices for care.

The medication management platform provides the ability to observe and predict disease outbreaks by analyzing recent prescriptions for tracking infectious disease trends. The medication management platform facilitates collaboration between multiple health care users and providers for example medication administrators residents of assisted living facilities ALFs families of residents of the ALFs pharmacies physicians etc. The medication management platform keeps the families of the residents of the ALFs engaged and collaborates with them to ensure satisfaction of the residents and their families . The medication management platform also improves communications and facilitates collaboration between the health care providers for example between pharmacies and physicians between medication administrators and residents families between medication administrators and pharmacies between medication administrators and physicians etc. The collaboration on the medication management platform provides direct visibility to physicians and pharmacies into the administration of medication to residents of ALFs. The direct visibility allows appropriate clinical drug interventions and reduces the number of inappropriate and unnecessary medications thereby reducing medication errors. The medication management platform aids in improving ALF staff productivity streamlining operations and enhancing regulatory compliance.

The medication management platform minimizes gaps in the health care information and improves the quality and relevance of the health care information for research purposes. The continuity and improved flow of information created by the collaboration APIs for example Google Wave Google buzz Gmail etc. of the medication management platform implies more collaboration between all the health care users and the health care providers in different settings resulting in better outcomes for the health care users. The medication management platform also incorporates time management based web applications for example the Google calendar for sending reminders and alerts to the health care users and the health care providers on different schedules of health care management. Moreover as disclosed in the detailed description of the staff scheduler creates daily task lists for each of the staff members of the health care providers. Furthermore the reporting module generates reports for example operations reports and regulatory reports for operational and regulatory management. The medication management platform also implements access logging for HIPAA compliance by monitoring and recording accesses to the medication management platform by the health care users the health care providers the researchers etc.

The processor is an electronic circuit that can execute computer programs. The memory unit is used for storing programs applications and data. For example the medication management application and the research repository component of the medication management platform are stored on the memory unit of the computer system . The memory unit is for example a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by the processor . The memory unit also stores temporary variables and other intermediate information used during execution of the instructions by the processor . The computer system further comprises a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processor . The data bus permits communication between the modules for example and of the computer implemented system disclosed herein.

Computer applications and programs are used for operating the computer system . The programs are loaded onto the fixed media drive and into the memory unit of the computer system via the removable media drive . In an embodiment the computer applications and programs may be loaded directly through a network. Computer applications and programs are executed by double clicking a related icon displayed on the display unit using one of the input devices . The health care users the health care providers the researchers etc. interact with the computer system using a graphical user interface GUI of the display unit .

The computer system employs an operating system for performing multiple tasks. The operating system manages execution of for example the medication management application and the research repository component provided on the computer system . The operating system further manages security of the computer system peripheral devices connected to the computer system and network connections. The operating system employed on the computer system recognizes keyboard inputs of the health care users the health care providers the researchers etc. output display files and directories stored locally on the fixed media drive for example a hard drive. Different programs for example a web browser an email application etc. initiated by the user are executed by the operating system with the help of the processor for example a central processing unit CPU . The operating system monitors the use of the processor .

The medication management application and the research repository component are installed in the computer system and the instructions are stored in the memory unit . The health care information is consolidated in the research repository component installed in the computer system of the medication management platform via the interface or a network. A user for example a health care provider initiates the execution of the medication management application and the research repository component by double clicking the icons for the medication management application and the research repository component respectively on the display unit . The execution of the medication management application and the research repository component may also be automatically initiated on deploying the medication management application and the research repository component on the medication management platform . Instructions for managing health care and obtaining analytical insights using information related to health care are retrieved by the processor from the program memory in the form of signals. The locations of the instructions in the modules for example and are determined by a program counter PC . The program counter stores a number that identifies the current position in the programs of the medication management application and the research repository component .

The instructions fetched by the processor from the program memory after being processed are decoded. The instructions are placed in an instruction register IR in the processor . After processing and decoding the processor executes the instructions. For example the prescriptions module of the medication management application defines instructions for acquiring and storing prescription information and user information of the health care users. The daily medication scheduler defines instructions for generating a daily medication schedule for each of the health care users based on administration instructions of the health care providers. The facility master scheduler defines instructions for generating a facility master schedule for each of the health care providers. The staff scheduler defines instructions for tracking job schedules of each of the staff members of the health care providers and for creating daily task lists for each of the staff members. The schedule optimization engine defines instructions for evaluating on a daily basis availability schedules of the staff members of each of the health care providers against medication administration needs. The daily task generator defines instructions for generating daily task lists for the staff members of each of the health care providers based on recommendations from the schedule optimization engine . The reporting module defines instructions for generating reports for operational and regulatory management. The de identification module defines instructions for de identifying health care user information for a particular health care provider. The analytical processor of the research repository component defines instructions for analyzing consolidated health care information in the research repository for obtaining analytical insights related to health care etc. The defined instructions are stored in the program memory or received from a remote server.

The processor retrieves the instructions defined by the prescriptions module the daily medication scheduler the facility master scheduler the staff scheduler the schedule optimization engine the daily task generator the reporting module the de identification module the analytical processor etc. and executes the instructions.

At the time of execution the instructions stored in the instruction register are examined to determine the operations to be performed. The specified operation is then performed by the processor . The operations include arithmetic and logic operations. The operating system performs multiple routines for performing a number of tasks required to assign the input devices output devices and memory for execution of the medication management application and the research repository component . The tasks performed by the operating system comprise assigning memory to the medication management application the research repository component and data moving data between the memory unit and disk units and handling input output operations. The operating system performs the tasks on request by the operations and after performing the tasks the operating system transfers the execution control back to the processor . The processor continues the execution to obtain one or more outputs. The outputs of the execution of the medication management application and the research repository component are displayed to the health care user the health care provider the researcher etc. on the display unit .

Consider an example for managing health care in an assisted living facility ALF . exemplarily illustrates a workflow diagram for managing health care in the assisted living facility ALF . For every ALF resident a medication profile is established or set up using the medication management application . The medication profile comprises information about the physician pharmacy and medications. The medication administration records treatment administration records nursing aide forms and billing statements all flow from the medication profile. The medication management application acquires the health care information from the medication profile and updates the research repository . A medication cart is arranged by reviewing medication sheets and stocking up the medications. A health care provider reviews the medication sheets to administer the medication to the ALF resident as required. The medication sheets are updated as required after reviewing a facsimile fax provided from the pharmacy. The resident patient is billed and the medication log is archived in the research repository

The medication management platform ensures security and protection of the health care information for example patient data for managing the health care information and restricting access to the subscribing health care users and the health care providers. The medication management platform restricts data access as appropriate and utilizes access control mechanisms depending on the role of the health care user or the health care provider. For example the medication management platform uses Google Inc. s implementation of the OAuth protocol to authorize requests to the medication management application and other web applications for accessing the health care information of the health care users. The implementation of the OAuth protocol is based on tokens for accessing the health care information on the medication management platform . For example if the research repository on the medication management platform receives an unauthorized request token from a third party user via Google s authorization server the authorization server queries the health care user to grant the third party user access to the required health care information on the research repository . If the research repository on the medication management platform receives an authorized request token via the authorization server the authorized request token is exchanged for an access token. The access token can be used to request data from the research repository through Google s service access servers.

The medication management platform allows assisted living facility ALF administrators and caregivers to login to their company domain built on for example Google Apps. This enables them to collaborate on administrative tasks with one another and retain the data specific to the ALF within its domain. exemplarily illustrates a screenshot of a login web page for an assisted living facility ALF administrator and caregiver for managing health care on the medication management platform . Similarly the residents login to their individual Google accounts to enter and track their medications and schedules and to interact with their ALF staff through their accounts. exemplarily illustrates a screenshot of a login web page for an assisted living facility ALF resident for managing health care on the medication management platform . The medication management platform also allows scientists and researchers to login to the de identified research repository through Google authenticated accounts on the medication management platform s research specific domains. exemplarily illustrates a screenshot of a login web page for a researcher to obtain analytical insights using information related to health care from the de identified research repository

The medication management platform uses open personal health records PHR from Google Inc. to deploy the medication management application that is secure and portable across residents assisted living facilities ALFs resident families pharmacies physicians insurers etc. Individual PHRs feed the prescriptions module . The prescriptions module holds the prescription and resident information for all the residents across all the ALFs subscribing to the medication management platform . The medication management platform restricts access to the individual and consolidated health care information. exemplarily illustrates a screenshot of a sample resident personal health record PHR based on Google s health information centralization service integrated with the medication management application on the medication management platform .

Consider an example where a senior health care user signs up to become an assisted living facility ALF resident. An ALF administrator logs in to the medication management platform using the login web page exemplarily illustrated in . After logging in the administrator enters information about the new resident and the resident s family as exemplarily illustrated in and information about the resident s Google PHR. Once the resident has been enrolled the resident logs into the resident s Google account using the login web page as exemplarily illustrated in . The resident also logs into the Google PHR as exemplarily illustrated in to share the health care information with the medication management platform . The resident the resident s family or an enabled health care provider or ALF caregiver enters medication information in the Google PHR illustrated in .

The health care provider sets up a resident daily medication schedule as exemplarily illustrated in for example on the Google Calendar. This resident daily medication schedule is shared across the facility calendar and optimized with the schedules for other residents and the independent health care provider schedules illustrated in to create the facility master schedule. The facility master schedule is optimized for staff availability and resident medication needs to generate the individual health care provider or medical technician daily task lists. The health care provider or medical technician logs in to the medication management platform on a daily basis to review their tasks and prepare medication carts to disburse medications as exemplarily illustrated in . Researchers may also log into the medication management platform using the login web page illustrated in to obtain analytical insights using the health care information in the research repository . On a regular basis the medical technicians the residents the family members and other health care providers log into their individual accounts to collaborate and share information using the assisted living collaboration page illustrated in .

It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented in a computer readable medium appropriately programmed for general purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor for example one or more microprocessors will receive instructions from a memory or like device and execute those instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions. Further programs that implement such methods and algorithms may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media for example computer readable media in a number of manners. In an embodiment hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. A processor means any one or more microprocessors central processing unit CPU devices computing devices microcontrollers digital signal processors or like devices. The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing data for example instructions that may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory volatile media include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a random access memory RAM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read. In general the computer readable programs may be implemented in any programming language. Some examples of languages that can be used include C C C Perl Python or JAVA. The software programs may be stored on or in one or more mediums as an object code. A computer program product comprising computer executable instructions embodied in a computer readable medium comprises computer parsable codes for the implementation of the processes of various embodiments.

Where databases are described such as the research repository it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as those described herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device that accesses data in such a database.

The present invention can be configured to work in a network environment including a computer that is in communication via a communications network with one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly via a wired or wireless medium such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or the Ethernet token ring or via any appropriate communications means or combination of communications means. Each of the devices may comprise computers such as those based on the Intel processors AMD processors UltraSPARC processors Sun processors IBM processors etc. that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and type of machines may be in communication with the computer.

The foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention disclosed herein. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Further although the invention has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may effect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects.

