---

title: Dynamic image presentation
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for efficiently organizing images in a display. A size of an image is scaled by an image scale factor, while an aspect ratio for the image is maintained, where the image scale factor comprises a combination of a first scale distance and a second scale distance. The scaled image is filled into a first display line, if the size of the scaled image is not greater than an amount of display space remaining in the first display line; otherwise the scaled image is filled into a second display line. The image is expanded to mitigate white space in the display after the scaling, while maintaining the image's aspect ratio. This can be performed for a collection of images presented on a display to provide an enhanced user experience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09383916&OS=09383916&RS=09383916
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09383916
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 247 456 filed Sep. 30 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In computing environments images can be retrieved from an image database and displayed on a variety of display screens such as computer monitors handheld devices and others. Further images can be displayed in a variety of formats. Commonly when an image database comprises a collection of images a plurality of thumbnail versions of the images can be displayed on a screen at together. A thumbnail view may be a visualization of a collection of photos such as from a folder in which a large number or all of the photos are visible on the display and remaining photos can be observed by a simple scrolling action. Often when a user wishes to view images from the image database which can contain a few or thousands of images they continually browse a displayed selection e.g. scroll through until they find a desired image or images. Additionally images can be comprised of different sizes aspect ratios and layouts and a user may be able to specify a size of a thumbnail version for preferred viewing on a display.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In a computing environment when one wants to view images on a display screen they have typically been limited to a uniform packing arrangement. For example if a user inputs a search query into an online search website the site returns a limited display of some of the images from all of those meeting the search criteria. If a user is looking for a particular item for example from a shopping website browsing all of the results returned may be quite cumbersome. Uniform image displays have some limitations for example they typically limit the size location and or number of images to be displayed. Due to these limitations the resulting images are often distorted to fit a certain aspect ratio or the details cannot be distinguished because the resolution does not appropriately fit the displayed image size. Further a lot of display space is left blank often up to 70 when using a uniform packing arrangement.

These problems are particularly exacerbated when the user is accessing the images from a mobile device screen which is often very limited in size. The ability to get images from an image database to a user as quickly as possible is hampered by this type of uniform packing arrangement. Also when a user zooms into or out of a thumbnail view the images and or image details can be distorted and display space can be additionally wasted as the images are typically not arranged in a manner that mitigates white space e.g. unused screen space . Therefore it may be desirable display images to a user in their original aspect ratios for example and mitigate wasted display space in a dynamic layout to facilitate intuitive and useful user interaction with the images.

One or more image arrangement techniques and or systems designed to arrange and or display a plurality of images in an efficient packing arrangement and provide for the efficient arrangement during zooming events of the displayed plurality of images are provided. Furthermore one or more techniques and or systems described herein provide for displayed images to comprise their original aspect ratio and layout for example thereby allowing a desirable resolution while minimizing or substantially reducing distortion. For example the one or more techniques and or systems described herein may enable a mobile device user to more efficiently retrieve and display a greater number of images per display screen while maintaining aspect ratios thereby having a resolution and distortion that gives the user a more desirable viewing experience.

To facilitate at least some of the same a size of an image is scaled by an image scale factor and during the scaling an aspect ratio for the image is maintained. In this embodiment the image scale factor comprises a combination of a first scale distance and a second scale distance for example determined by a touch distance from a double touch gesture. The scaled image is filled into a first display line such as a row or column if the size of the scaled image is not greater than an amount of display space that is left in the first display line otherwise the scaled image is filled into a second display line e.g. the next row . The image is then expanded to mitigate white space in the display after the scaling while maintaining the image s aspect ratio. In one sense resulting presentations of images can be thought of as images being reflowed to display within a scrollable area.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Photo images are typically rectangular having an aspect ratio of 4 3 3 2 16 9 or their transposes. Photo images displayed on a computing device for example comprising limited display space e.g. a mobile device screen can be displayed in a variety of ways. A variety of techniques can be used to provide for displaying a plurality of images on a display of limited size such as cropping e.g. removing part of the image at the top bottom sides or a combination of each inscribing various sized images in same sized display boxes e.g. by distorting or cropping constraining images to a same height or width and distorting the image to fit into a predefined display size are just a few examples.

Further in order to display a larger number of images in an organized arrangement the images have been square cropped. That is for example the sides and or top and bottom of the image have been removed to create a square shaped thumbnail. Typically a center of the image is chosen and the surrounding parts of the center that fit within a predefined cropping square are displayed and the remaining parts outside the cropping square are not displayed in the thumbnail. Inherently in this format portions of the image are lost when the thumbnail images are shown in the display area .

One or more methods may be devised that provide for a user interface UI for viewing photo thumbnails where the thumbnails are displayed at an original aspect ratio e.g. neither cropped nor inscribed in a different sized frame and which use as much of a display as feasible e.g. mitigates whitespace yet provide a means of dynamic layout to facilitate intuitive and useful user interaction with the thumbnails such as to resize e.g. zoom in and out the view . In one embodiment using one or more of the techniques described herein a multi touch UI for example can be combined with the native aspect ratio display of photo thumbnails providing intuitive touch driven zooming scaling while mitigating wasted whitespace.

In one embodiment the scale factor can be determined by combining the first scale distance and a second scale distance. As an example the scale factor may comprise a function of a quotient of the second scale distance and first scale distance such as 

It will be appreciated that the techniques described herein are not limited to any particular embodiment of determining scale factor for scaling the images. It is anticipated that those skilled in the art may devise alternate scale factor calculations.

For example the scale factor may comprise a linear form for f e.g. f x x may have intuitive appeal . Such a linear form can vary the viewed image size in direct proportion to a scale distance. However in this example the function may not be sufficiently accurate at lower sized images and insensitive at the larger sizes. As another example to mitigate such an issue other scale factor determinations may be used such as 

In one embodiment the computing device may comprise a touch sensitive display e.g. resistive and or conductive touch sensitive screen where a double touch gesture can be used. For example when two fingers are applied to the display and drawn toward each other e.g. a pinch gesture a zooming out of the display may occur. Alternately when the two fingers are drawn away from each other a zooming in of the display may occur. In this embodiment an application of a double touch to a touch sensitive display can generate the first and second scale distances.

For example a location of the two fingers when they are first placed on the screen can provide the first scale distance. That is in this example a distance between the two fingers can be determined which can comprise the first scale distance. Further the fingers can either be pinched together or apart and the second scale distance can comprise the distance between the fingers during the pinch gesture or when it is completed. In this way a first and second scale distance can be determined by the double touch gesture on the display screen.

Alternately the first and second scale distances can be provided by detecting gestures such as from a user. For example a sensor e.g. a light based sensor such as infrared or some other particle beam or wave based sensor may provide for a user s gestures to be detected and inferred to actions on a display. In this example a first gesture may indicate the first scale distance and a second gesture may indicate a second touch distance. Further other embodiments may utilize input tools such as a keyboard mouse or other input devices to indicate a first and second scale distance.

In the exemplary embodiment of at the scaled image is filled into a first display line e.g. a row or column in the display if the size of the scaled image is not greater than an amount of display space remaining in the first display line. Otherwise if the size of the scaled image is greater than the remaining space the scaled image is filled into a second display line e.g. a next row or column . For example a basic layout algorithm can be applied that iterates over scaled e.g. resized images filling row after row or column after column subject to a target row width e.g. a variable named screenwidth although it may be smaller or larger than a physical display size .

In one embodiment as the images are scaled up or down for example the images can be added to a display row when zooming out or moved to a next row when zooming in. Therefore in this example if a scaled image fits into a display row it is added or left there to the row and if it does not fit it is added to the next row until all of the images are displayed that can fit into the display view. That is for example if a display is zoomed in the width and height of the screen will constrain a number of images displayed based on the zoom level applied by a user. Further the user may zoom out until all of the images in an album are displayed on the screen for example. Additionally in some embodiments constraints may be applied that limit a number e.g. minimum and or maximum of images displayed at one time such as for aesthetics.

At of the exemplary embodiment the scaled image is expanded to mitigate white space in the display after scaling while maintaining the image s aspect ratio. For example as illustrated in the space remaining in display row A comprises wasted white space. In this embodiment the white space can be mitigated by expanding the size of the images in the display line such as by scaling up the images in display row A to fill in the remaining space .

In one embodiment because the images aspect ratios are maintained when expanding in the display lines for example the row or column will expand in at least two directions e.g. across to fill a row and down to accommodate the aspect ratio during expansion . In this embodiment expanding the display line facilitates in mitigating white space but may also cause fewer display lines to be viewed on the display e.g. by expanding rows down some rows may be pushed out of the viewed display .

In one embodiment during a multi touch pinch event for example a layout algorithm can be used to maximally fill respective rows of image thumbnails until no additional thumbnails can be added and additional area e.g. white space is consumed by scaling up the entire row. Successive rows of thumbnails can be vertically aligned so as to minimize a gap between rows. For example these horizontal and vertical expansion operations can provide a user with a non distracting visual feedback while the user chooses a view that spans from a few to a hundred thumbnails on a typical screen.

In one aspect a display that provides for zooming in and out of a plurality of thumbnail images for example and organizes the images in a packed and visually appealing manner may provide for scrolling through an album of images. For example a plurality of images may be compiled in an album that has a sort or storybook quality where a user can maintain a sense of location in the album during scrolling and zooming.

In one embodiment scrolling the display of images in merely two opposite directions may be provided for such as either horizontally or vertically. That is the images may be scrolled up and down or left and right for example. In this embodiment the provision for scrolling in the merely two opposite directions can be maintained after scaling. For example if the multi touch zooms in to the display of images thereby reducing a number of images displayed the user may still be able to scroll through the images in the same opposite directions as available before the scaling of the images. In this example if the album of images could be scrolled up and down before scaling they can be scrolled up and down after scaling.

Further in this aspect a direction of scrolling can define the display line for example. In one embodiment the display line can comprise a horizontal row if the opposite directions of scrolling are up and down and the display line can comprise a vertical column if the opposite directions of scrolling are left and right. That is for example when the display of images can be scrolled up and down through an album of image the display line is a row. In this example when the display of images is able to be scrolled side to side the display line is a column.

At initial information generated by the double touch event is saved. When a multi touch event is detected a distance between the two touches on the screen or detected inputs gestures and saves a current scale factor which can be a state variable of an algorithm run at the multi touch detection for example. In one embodiment a current time can be identified and a suitable timeout period can also determined at .

In one embodiment the scale factor can be a variable internal to an image layout algorithm that describes a size of the layout image thumbnails. This can roughly correlate with a dimension of the bounding box in which an image can be displayed and scaled for example or in a reciprocal sense a width of the display area divided by the size of the bounding box. For example the scale factor can be defined as a continuous variable e.g. a floating point or a fixed point value with fine granularity so it may be possible to vary the scale factor by fractional numbers.

As described above in one embodiment to determine the scale factor a first inter touch distance of the double touch can be determined. For example a distance between two fingers used to touch the screen for a multi touch event can be measured. In one embodiment if the multi touch is a first multi touch the scale factor may merely be the integer one as the scale is initiated with the first multi touch.

Further a current time and timeout period can be selected for the algorithm for example. The timeout period may be used for governing actions such as for computing devices with limited CPU power. As an example an application may go unresponsive due to limited CPU so in order to keep work flow going the timeout manages the flow process by causing event that occur too frequently to be ignored until user done with touch event e.g. 0.02 second timeout . In this example current time can also be used along with the timeout to manage work flow.

At in the exemplary embodiment the double touch event is monitored to see if it is ended. If the double touch is still in progress NO at it is determined whether the double touch distance has changed at . If the double touch distance has not changed e.g. pinch gesture has not moved the flow diagram returns to to wait for a change in the double touch status. If the double touch distance has changed YES at it is determined whether the timeout has been reached at .

That is in this example if the current time is less than the selected timeout value the time out has not been met YES at . In this example the timeout can mitigate an overflow of data for a CPU that does not have sufficient processing power. That is if the time out has not been met the event is not processed for example. However if the time out is met NO at a second touch distance can be determined at and a second scale factor and a new timeout value can be determined. In one embodiment the second touch distance comprises a second inter touch distance of the double touch such as between two fingers place by a user on a touch sensitive screen.

Further in this embodiment the first inter touch distance and the second inter touch distance can be combined to generate the image scale factor. As described above the scale factor may comprise a function of a quotient of the second scale distance and first scale distance for example. In this example the first scale factor can be a previous scale factor used to scale the images and the second scale factor can be a current scale factor to be determined for scaling the images.

At in the exemplary embodiment a basic layout algorithm can be applied such as to layout the thumbnail images in accordance with the second scale factor. is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment of a portion of a method where a basic layout algorithm can be applied. In this exemplary embodiment Q can be a variable that refers to an amount of space remaining in a current row R. Further in one embodiment a desired margin can be set between thumbnails images to be laid out which can be designated by M.

At the variables can be initialized such that R the row is set at negative one and Q the space left in the current row is set to zero. In this way if there are any thumbnails to be added they will be added to the first row. At if there are more images to be added to the scaled display the next image is retrieved at such as from computer memory.

In one embodiment when an image is scaled up or down an image display box can be determined for the image which comprises a combination of the image scale factor and the aspect ratio of the image. Further the scaling of the image can comprise resizing the image to fit inside the display box. For example a display box can be used to scale the images where the display box dimensions are determined by the scale factor while maintaining an original aspect ratio. In this example the scale factor can define the bounding box size and limits may be placed at the low and high ends on the bounding box size. Therefore as a touch distance increases or decreases the scale factor increases or decreases for example and the bounding box will increase or decrease in size.

At the image is fit into the bounding box which has been scaled e.g. up or down according to scale factor and a variable W is set to be equal to a width of the image. If W the width of the image combined with M the desired margin is less than or equal to Q the space left in the row YES at the image can be added to the current row R at . That is the scaled image is filled into the display line such as a row or column if the size of the desired margin between images combined with the size e.g. width for row or height for column of the scaled image is not greater than the amount of display space remaining in the display line.

After the image is added at Q is set to the combination of Q less W less M e.g. current amount of space left in row is set to previous amount of space minus the margin minus the width of the image . In one embodiment after the display line row or column is full the margin between images can be increased to provide a justified appearance for the images in the display line e.g. right left or center justified .

However when a first image is laid out Q is set to zero therefore at the combination of W and M are going to be greater than Q NO at which will also occur when the image cannot fit into a current row. At a row or column is laid out which comprises adding a next row at . Further the variable R is updated to equal the next row R 1 and Q is updated to be equal to a value for the screenwidth combined with the margin value M . In this way as an example a new row or column is added to the display to which the image can be added such as at .

In the exemplary embodiment after the image is added to the row the flow returns to determine if there are more images at where additional images and rows can be added as described above. However if no more thumbnails images are available for the display NO at the last row can be laid out at . In this example the last row is laid out only if R is greater than or equal to zero that is where there is at least one row. Having laid out the last row the exemplary embodiment ends at .

Returning to in the exemplary embodiment if the double touch has ended such as by a user removing their fingers from the touch screen space expansion is applied at and the exemplary embodiment ends at . In one embodiment expanding the image is performed to mitigate white space in the display for example thereby filling more of the display and mitigating wasted screen space. The expansion can comprise expanding the respective images in a display line by an expansion factor while maintaining their respective aspect ratios and a desired margin between images.

For example an expansion factor S may be determined that allows the images to expand proportionally to fill unused space for the lines. In one embodiment images in a row are expanded by the same expansion factor S for which an exemplary rule can be constructed for example that keeps the margin unchanged by introducing a scaling on the summation such as 

In one embodiment while the images can be expanded by the scale S as computed the vertical margins may no longer hold if S 1. In this embodiment for the images to be correctly spaced vertically for example the current row can be shifted downwards. One solution to this issue for example can be to find a vertical offset of adjacent rows and the scaled sizes of the images in these two rows.

Therefore expanding the images to mitigate white space can comprise determining a display distance between the second display line R and the first display line R 1 . That is for example determining a distance between a current row and the previous row by looking at a distance between the closest images in the respective rows. Further in this embodiment the respective images in the second display line can be shifted toward the first display line by a distance equal to a combination of the display distance and a desired margin.

In one embodiment determining a display distance can comprise iteratively determining an offset value of the second display line R given an offset value of the first display line R 1 for respective images in the display lines until a smallest display distance between the display lines is determined. As an example an event list can be formed for an upper row which may be a sequence of x and y coordinates of a left bottom corner of the scaled horizontally laid out images in the R 1 th row. Likewise in this example an event list can be formed for the current row comprising the x and y coordinates of a left top corner of the scaled horizontally laid out images of the R th row.

In this embodiment vertical alignment can proceed as follows a first event in the upper row event list is picked where event coordinates are X Y the first event in the lower row event list is picked where the event coordinates are X Y the quantity D is set to D Y Y while there are remaining events in either event list the next event with a smaller X coordinate can be picked from one of the two lists if from the upper list then its coordinates replace X Y else its coordinates replace X Y within this loop a new value of D Y Yis calculated and D is updated if D

In this embodiment when both lists are exhausted a final value of D is a smallest vertical margin between the rows. This value of D may be negative which may represent a highest degree of overlap between images from respective rows or columns . Subsequently for example images in the R th row can be shifted upwards by a quantity D V where V represents some vertical spacing distance such as a margin M.

As described above the image can be expanded to mitigate white space and the image is expanded such that a D may be negative representing a degree of overlap between images. In one embodiment the first image in a first display line and a second image in a second adjacent display line can be coincident in a first axis that is orthogonal to a direction of scrolling the display. In this embodiment at least a space equivalent to a desired margin can separate the first image and second image along a second axis that is parallel to the direction of the scrolling.

In one aspect when a multi touch gesture is used to scale up zoom in or scale down zoom in thumbnail images in a display an image that is central to the multi touch gesture can remain central during the gesture. That is for example if a user were perform a pinch gesture on a touch sensitive screen thereby zooming out the display of thumbnails increasing a number in the view the image at the center of the pinch can remain in the center for example to provide a more intuitive experience for the user e.g. they don t lose the image offscreen as the display is scaled .

In one embodiment in this aspect a central image can be identified such as when the double touch is initiated. In this embodiment identifying the central image may comprise selecting the image that comprises a center point area of the first scale distance. For example the center point of a line that comprises the intertouch distance of the double touch can be identified and the image that comprises or is closest to that point can be the central image. Further after scaling the images the central image is maintained in the display line between endpoints of the second scale distance after scaling. That is for example after the double touch ends the central images can be in a row that is between the double touch.

In the display comprises the same ordered images from A which are in the same order as before the scaling event . Further as the display is zoomed out additional images are added at the top and at the bottom . However the central image can remain at a location that is between the double touch gesture as it was drawn together. In this way the user may be interested in a particular image or area of the album comprising many images and that area remains in the central view during and after the scaling event.

A system may be devised that provides for viewing photo thumbnails where the thumbnails are displayed at an original aspect ratio which uses as much of a display as feasible yet provides a means of dynamic layout to facilitate intuitive and useful user interaction with the thumbnails such as to resize. is a component diagram of an exemplary system for efficiently displaying images in a computing environment.

A display component is configured to display images and a memory component configured to store image data such as in an image database comprising the images to be displayed. A scaling component that is operably coupled with the memory component scales a size of an image using an image scale factor while maintaining an image aspect ratio. Here the image scale factor is derived from a combination of a first scale distance and a second scale distance such as from a multi touch event e.g. a double touch on a touch sensitive screen .

A display line filling component which is operably coupled with the image scaling component and the display component fills the scaled image into a first display line on the display if the size of the scaled image is not greater than an amount of display space remaining in the first display line. Otherwise the image scaling component fills the scaled image into a second display line on the display . An expansion component is operably coupled with the display component and it is configured to expand the image to mitigate white space on the display after scaling.

Further the exemplary system can comprise an image centering component which can be configured to identify a central image by selecting the image that comprises a center point area of the first scale distance. For example the image centering component may select an image that is central to the double touch . The image centering component can also be configured to maintain the central image in a display line between endpoints of the second scale distance after scaling such as between the double touch .

In the exemplary embodiment a scrolling component can be configured to provide for scrolling images on the display in merely two opposite directions such as up and down or left and right. Further the scrolling component can maintain the scrolling in the merely two opposite directions after scaling. In this embodiment the display line can comprise a horizontal row if the opposite directions of scrolling are up and down or a vertical column if the opposite direction of scrolling is left and right.

In the exemplary embodiment the expansion component comprises an expansion factor determination component that calculates an expansion factor for the image that mitigates white space between respective images in a display line while maintaining a desired margin between images. Further the expansion component comprises a display line shifting component that can determine a display distance between the second display line R and the first display line R 1 and shift respective images in the second display line toward the first display line by a distance equivalent to a combination of the display distance and a desired margin. Additionally the expansion component can comprise a display distance determination component configured to determine a display distance by iteratively determining an offset value of the second display line R given an offset value of the first display line R 1 for respective images in the display lines until a smallest display distance between the display lines is determined.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

