---

title: RFID reader with sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation
abstract: RFID readers configured to transmit a radio frequency signal include a sub-orthogonal self-jammer cancellation circuit that generates two or more distinct phase variants of the transmit signal, selects two of the phase variants with a vector projection of one of the selected phase variants on another of the selected phase variants being substantially greater than zero such that a canceling signal comprising a combination of the at least two phase variants is substantially opposite in phase to a self-jamming signal, and selects amplitudes for the at least two selected phase variants such that the canceling signal is substantially equal in amplitude to the self-jamming signal. The canceling signal is then combined with the self-jamming signal to reduce the amplitude of an RF signal received by a receive circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08260241&OS=08260241&RS=08260241
owner: Impinj, Inc.
number: 08260241
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101028
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 257 774 filed on Nov. 3 2009. The disclosures of the provisional patent application are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID systems typically include RFID tags and RFID readers. RFID readers are also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are particularly useful in product related and service related industries for tracking objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

In principle RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to interrogate one or more RFID tags. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near field.

A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave responds by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag generates the transmitted back RF wave either originally or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The reflected back RF wave may further encode data stored internally in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number a price a date a destination other attribute s any combination of attributes and so on.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna subsystem and a radio subsystem including a modem a power management section a logical section and a memory. In some RFID tags the power management section includes an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as active or battery assisted tags. Advances in semiconductor technology have miniaturized the electronics so much that an RFID tag can be powered solely by the RF signal it receives. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device such as a battery and are called passive tags. Regardless of the type all tags typically store or buffer some energy temporarily in passive storage devices such as capacitors.

In RFID readers a portion of the RF signal transmitted by the transmit circuitry of the reader may couple into a receive path of the same reader as a self jammer signal due to antenna reflection. Because the RF signals transmitted by the RFID tags in response to the RF signal transmitted by the reader are relatively weak signals the self jammer signal may interfere with the RF signals received from the tags causing degradation of quality or unintended operations at the reader. One approach to mitigating the self jammer signal is attenuating a received signal at the RFID reader s front end through resistive or similar components but that would also attenuate the already weak RFID tag signals and is therefore an undesirable solution. Another approach is to attenuate the self jammer signal by substantially cancelling it with a replica signal that is equal in amplitude but opposite in phase to the self jammer signal. Such readers may generate the cancellation replica signal by combining appropriate amplitudes of two orthogonal signals that are separated in phase by 90 degrees.

This summary introduces a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to a sub orthogonal self jammer cancellation circuit adapted to receive a self jamming signal associated with the transmit signal and generate at least two distinct phase variants of the transmit signal. The sub orthogonal self jammer circuit may select two of the distinct phase variants where a vector projection of a first of the selected phase variants on a second of the selected phase variants is substantially greater than zero and a canceling signal comprising a combination of the selected phase variants is substantially opposite in phase to the self jamming signal. According to some embodiments the sub orthogonal self jammer circuit may also select amplitudes for each of the two phase variants such that the canceling signal is substantially equal in amplitude to the self jamming signal and combine the canceling signal with the self jamming signal to reduce the amplitude of the RF signal received by the receive circuit.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of aspects as claimed.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments or examples may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Reader and tag exchange data via wave and wave . In a session of such an exchange each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data can be modulated onto and demodulated from RF waveforms. The RF waveforms are typically in a suitable range of frequencies such as those near 900 MHz 2.4 GHz and so on.

Encoding the data can be performed in a number of ways. For example protocols are devised to communicate in terms of symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol for communicating can be a delimiter a calibration symbol and so on. Further symbols can be implemented for ultimately exchanging binary data such as 0 and 1 if that is desired. In turn when the symbols are processed internally by reader and tag they can be equivalently considered and treated as numbers having corresponding values and so on.

Tag can be a passive tag or an active or battery assisted tag i.e. having its own power source . Where tag is a passive tag it is powered from wave .

Tag is typically formed on a substantially planar inlay which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag includes an electrical circuit which is preferably implemented as an IC . IC is arranged on inlay .

Tag also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable antenna terminals not shown in .

The antenna may be made in a number of ways. In the example of the antenna is made from two distinct antenna segments which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible using any number of antenna segments. In some embodiments an antenna can be made with even a single segment. Different points of the segment can be coupled to one or more of the antenna terminals of IC . For example the antenna can form a single loop with its ends coupled to the terminals. It should be remembered that even a single segment could behave like multiple segments at the frequencies of RFID wireless communication.

In operation a signal is received by the antenna and communicated to IC . IC both harvests power and responds if appropriate based on the incoming signal and the IC s internal state. In order to respond by replying IC modulates the reflectance of the antenna which generates backscatter from wave transmitted by the reader. Coupling together and uncoupling the antenna terminals of IC can modulate the antenna s reflectance as can a variety of other means.

In the embodiment of antenna segments are separate from IC . In other embodiments antenna segments may alternatively be formed on IC and so on. Furthermore an interface element may be used to couple the IC to the antenna segments not shown in .

The components of the RFID system of may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half duplex and is described below.

RFID reader and RFID tag talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME when reader talks to tag the communication session is designated as R T and when tag talks to reader the communication session is designated as T R . Along the TIME axis a sample R T communication session occurs during a time interval and a following sample T R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval is typically of a different duration than interval here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.

According to blocks and RFID reader talks during interval and listens during interval . According to blocks and RFID tag listens while reader talks during interval and talks while reader listens during interval .

In terms of actual technical behavior during interval reader talks to tag as follows. According to block reader transmits wave which was first described in . At the same time according to block tag receives wave and processes it to extract data and so on. Meanwhile according to block tag does not backscatter with its antenna and according to block reader has no wave to receive from tag .

During interval tag talks to reader as follows. According to block reader transmits a Continuous Wave CW which can be thought of as a carrier signal that ideally encodes no information. As discussed before this carrier signal serves both to be harvested by tag for its own internal power needs and also as a wave that tag can backscatter. Indeed during interval according to block tag does not receive a signal for processing. Instead according to block tag modulates the CW emitted according to block so as to generate backscatter wave . Concurrently according to block reader receives backscatter wave and processes it.

Local block is responsible for communicating with tags. Local block includes a block of an antenna and a driver of the antenna for sending signals to and receiving signals from the tags. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and driver. Some contain multiple antennas and drivers and a method to switch signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. And some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes RF waves received from the tags via antenna s drivers block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates an RF wave that is to be transmitted to the tags via antenna s drivers block .

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by processor . In some cases processor may implement an encryption or authorization function in some cases one or more of these functions can be distributed among other blocks such as encoding block or may be entirely incorporated in another block.

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation nonvolatile memories NVM read only memories ROM random access memories RAM any combination of one or more of these and so on. These memories can be implemented separately from processor or in a single chip with processor with or without other components. Memory if provided can store programs for processor to run if needed.

In some embodiments memory stores data read from tags or data to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs and other data. Memory can also include reference data that is to be compared to the EPC codes instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna s drivers and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block may treat the data as analog such as the antenna s drivers block . Other components such as memory may treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a whole reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are indeed provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network can be a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the internet or a mere local communication link such as a USB PCI and so on. In turn local block then includes a local network connection for communicating with network . Communications on the network can be secure such as if they are encrypted or physically protected or insecure such as if they are not encrypted or otherwise protected.

There can be one or more remote component s . If more than one they can be located at the same location or in different locations. They can access each other and local block via network or via other similar networks and so on. Accordingly remote component s can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection is shown which is similar to local network connection etc.

Remote component s can also include a remote processor . Processor can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor . Remote processor may also implement an encryption function similar to local processor .

Remote component s can also include a remote memory . Memory can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Memory may include a local database and a different database of a Standards Organization such as one that can reference EPCs. Remote memory may also contain information associated with phase amplitude selection or the like similar to local memory .

Of the above described elements it may be advantageous to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Block includes the following components local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of network that links remote network connection with local network connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable etc. In addition block can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna s drivers and cause antenna s drivers to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Block includes either local processor or remote processor or both. If both are provided remote processor can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly block is location agnostic in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor or by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

Reader system operates by block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna s drivers block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna s drivers block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by processing block .

Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination. It is advantageous to consider such a system as subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware some as software some as firmware and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described together with the RFID tag as an additional module.

An RFID tag is considered here as a module by itself. Tag conducts a wireless communication with the remainder via the air interface . It is noteworthy that air interface is really only a boundary in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Specifications as to how readers and tags communicate with each other for example Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz Gen2 Protocol by EPCglobal Inc. properly characterizes that boundary as an interface. Contents of Gen2 Specification version 1.2 are hereby incorporated by reference.

RFID reader system includes one or more antennas and an RF Analog Front End for interfacing with antenna s . These can be made as described above.

RFID reader system also includes a Signal Processing module . In one embodiment module exchanges waveforms with Front End such as I and Q waveform pairs.

RFID reader system also includes a Physical Driver module which is also known as Data Link. In one embodiment module exchanges bits with module . Data Link can be the stage associated with framing of data.

RFID reader system additionally includes a Media Access Control module which is also known as MAC layer. In one embodiment module exchanges packets of bits with module . MAC layer can make decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication which in this case is the air interface.

RFID reader system moreover includes an Application Programming Library module . This module can include Application Programming Interfaces APIs other objects etc.

All of these RFID reader system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a Host Operating System OS and or Central Processing Unit CPU . In some embodiments the processor is not considered as a separate module but one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of system . In some embodiments the one or more processors may perform operations associated with influencing a behavior of a tag based on the tag s public or private profile.

A user interface is coupled to library for accessing the APIs. User interface can be manual automatic or both. It can be supported by the host processor mentioned above or a separate processor etc.

It will be observed that the modules of RFID reader system form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities can be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in one direction for receiving RFID waveforms and in the other direction for transmitting RFID waveforms. In receiving mode antenna s receives wireless waves which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules. In transmitting mode waveform initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately signals are routed to antenna s to be transmitted as wireless waves.

The architecture of RFID reader system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore the features of the present disclosure can be performed within a single one of the modules or by a combination of them.

As mentioned previously embodiments are directed to RFID readers with sub orthogonal self jammer cancellation. While embodiments are typically implemented using RF circuits discrete or integrated made in a variety of ways they may also include programs and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program is usually advantageously implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor such as the processors described above.

Performing the steps instructions or operations of a program requires manipulating physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities may be transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions and they may also be stored in a computer readable medium. These quantities include for example electrical magnetic and electromagnetic charges or particles states of matter and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits data bits samples values symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities individually or in groups.

Embodiments furthermore include storage media. Such media individually or in combination with others have stored thereon instructions of a program made according to the embodiments. A storage medium according to the embodiments is a computer readable medium such as a memory and is read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If a memory it can be implemented in a number of ways such as Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM etc. some of which are volatile and some nonvolatile.

Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer readable medium it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory or even a single machine. Various portions modules or features of it may reside in separate memories or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly or through a network such as a local access network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Often for the sake of convenience only it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary or thought of in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.

RFID readers may have a single antenna that is shared between the transmit TX circuit and receive RX circuit circuitry or an antenna shared by the circuits. Diagram illustrates an example for the first case where circulator in RF analog front end is used to isolate the transmit circuitry TX circuit which includes of power amplifier PA and includes additional circuits in and the receive circuitry RX circuit which includes of self jammer cancellation circuit SJC low noise amplifier circuit LNA receive mixer and includes additional circuits in . Antenna is used by both the receive circuitry and the transmit circuitry. Circulators such as are directional RF devices with the property of providing low loss connectivity between a signal input to a circulator port and a signal output at the next circulator port in the circulator direction which is clockwise for circulator in .

Circulators provide isolation between an input port and the adjacent port in the other direction. In the output of power amplifier PA drives circulator and the circulator provides a low loss path between the PA output and antenna which is connected to the adjacent clockwise circulator port. Circulator provides high isolation between the PA output and the receive circuitry signal path input RX IN. However signals received from the antenna back into the circulator are connected to RX IN with low loss because RX IN is the adjacent clockwise circulator port relative to the antenna. Sub orthogonal self jammer cancellation methods according to embodiments are typically implemented at SJC circuit in the receive circuitry. A high impedance tap resistor at the output of a power amplifier generates a signal TX SIG which is used as an input to SJC circuit and as a local oscillator input signal for driving receive mixer . Additional inputs to SJC circuit include RX IN from circulator and MIX OUT from receive mixer . The output of SJC circuit drives the input of LNA .

As shown in the reader transmits a continuous wave CW to the tag during T R tag to reader communication sessions. This CW supplies power to the tag and serves as a carrier for tag backscatter modulation signaling to the reader. However with a shared transmit and receive antenna as used in the RF analog front end shown in some of the transmitted CW power will be reflected from the antenna back through the circulator and into RX IN. This reflected CW is referred to as a self jammer and is typically much larger than the backscatter modulated waveform from the tag. Reflection from a shared transmit and receive antenna is not the only mechanism that can cause a self jammer. An RFID system with separate antennas for receive and transmit may also have a self jammer which occurs due to coupling between the transmit and receive antennas.

Since the desired tag backscatter modulation is superimposed on the self jammer the self jammer amplitude limits the maximum gain that can be used in receiver LNA without causing significant signal compression. By limiting LNA gain a large amplitude self jammer reduces the modulation signal amplitude in subsequent receiver stages and thus also reduces receiver SNR signal to noise ratio and sensitivity. The self jammer also introduces amplitude modulated AM noise from the reader transmit path into the receiver that cannot be removed in the receiver mixer .

To allow higher receiver LNA gain thus increasing receiver SNR and sensitivity and to reduce the amount of reader transmit path AM noise introduced into the receiver it is desirable to reduce the amplitude of the self jammer before it enters the receiver LNA. A known and practiced technique for reducing self jammer amplitude in RFID readers is to create a replica of the self jammer equal in amplitude but with opposite phase and to sum this replica with the existing signal at the receiver input which otherwise consists of the tag backscatter modulation and the self jammer. Since the replica and the self jammer have the same amplitude but opposite phase they cancel and the resulting signal is ideally just the tag modulation. This technique is known as self jammer cancellation and is implemented in SJC circuit .

Any uncancelled self jammer signal present at the output of SJC circuit will pass through LNA to mixer and will be mixed down to DC by the mixer. The magnitude of DC present in MIX OUT is thus an indication of self jammer cancellation completeness. Phase variant selection circuit in SJC circuit can optimize cancellation completeness by selecting phase variants and by controlling AMP ADJ to adjust their amplitudes in amplitude adjustment summation circuit . Phase selection and amplitude adjustment may be implemented by an algorithm that minimizes the magnitude of DC present in MIX OUT which may be connected to the FB IN input of SJC circuit . Phase selection and amplitude adjustment may also be implemented by hardware or a combination of hardware and software. Portions of the phase variant selection circuit may be shared with other circuits in the reader. For example the magnitude of DC present in MIX OUT may be determined from the digital output of a receiver analog to digital converter ADC following the mixer. This ADC may be located in block of . And the circuit that processes the ADC digital output to determine the magnitude of DC present in MIX OUT may be located in signal processing block in .

Other implementations of selecting two phase variants and adjusting their amplitudes in an SJC circuit may also be used. The sum of the two selected and scaled phase variant signals PHASE A and PHASE B is the cancellation replica signal discussed above. This summation is implemented in amplitude adjustment summation circuit which also sums the cancellation replica with input signal RX IN to create the output SJC OUT. RX IN is the receiver input signal from circulator in and SJC OUT is the output which has the self jammer removed of self jammer cancellation circuit in . In some implementations amplitude adjustment summation circuit may contain two summation circuits a first summation circuit that sums PHASE A and PHASE B to create the cancellation replica and a second summation circuit that sums the cancellation replica with RX IN to create SJC OUT. In other implementations amplitude adjustment summation circuit may contain a single three input summation circuit that sums PHASE A PHASE B and RX IN to create SJC OUT directly.

The following paragraphs describe the mathematical basis for both orthogonal SJC and sub orthogonal SJC and show that both can be effective in canceling a self jammer. Prior art RFID self jammer cancellation circuits use orthogonal SJC because it is a simple and effective method based on well known quadrature signal processing techniques commonly used in radio receivers including RFID receivers. Sub orthogonal SJC is not as simple as orthogonal SJC however it is also effective in canceling a self jammer and it can provide a significant advantage in lower power consumption as is shown below.

The mathematical basis for the prior art four phase also known as orthogonal or quadrature SJC method referred to here as orthogonal SJC is shown in in which the amplitudes and phases of CW signals are represented by the magnitudes and angles of corresponding vectors. The four orthogonal vectors and in are the phase variant signals used to generate the SJC replica. The phase difference between adjacent phase variants in is 90 degrees. The self jammer is vector in with amplitude J and phase j and the cancellation replica is vector with amplitude R and phase r.

Cancellation replica vector is created by summing the two selected phase variant vectors and which are derived from phase variant vectors and by adjusting their amplitudes such that the cancellation vector amplitude equals the self jammer amplitude R J and the cancellation vector phase is opposite to the self jammer phase r j 180 degrees . A self jammer with any amplitude and phase may be cancelled by selecting two of the orthogonal phase variants in adjusting their amplitudes to create a cancellation replica with the same amplitude as and opposite phase to the self jammer and summing the cancellation replica with the self jammer. The phase difference between the two phase variants used by orthogonal SJC to create the cancellation replica is 90 degrees. A self jammer with any amplitude and phase may also be cancelled by selecting more than two phase variants.

Equations 1 and 2 can be solved to determine the lengths of the two selected phase variant vectors cos sin tan 3 cos sin tan 4 

The worst case maximum combined amplitude A B of the two selected phase variant vectors occurs for a cancellation replica phase halfway between them. Thus for orthogonal phase variant vectors with a 90 degree phase difference the maximum combined selected phase variant vector amplitude is 1.414 R which occurs when the cancellation replica is 45 degrees from each of the two selected phase variant vectors a b 45 degrees . For an example of sub orthogonal SJC in which the two selected phase variant vectors are selected from a set of eight phase variant vectors equally spaced 45 degrees apart the maximum combined selected phase variant vector amplitude is 1.082 R which occurs when the cancellation replica is 22.5 degrees from each of the two selected phase variant vectors a b 22.5 degrees . As shown in this example the combined selected phase variant vector amplitude of 1.082 R for sub orthogonal SJC is substantially smaller than the combined selected phase variant vector amplitude of 1.414 R for orthogonal SJC.

For the special case discussed above an expression can be derived for the worst case maximum combined amplitude of the two selected phase variant vectors as a function of the phase angle difference between them. In this special case the two phase angle differences between each of the selected phase variant vectors and the replica vector are equal a b c 2 where c is the phase angle difference between the two selected phase vectors. From equation 2 cos cos 2 5 Substituting a well known trigonometric identity for cos c 2 and solving for the combined amplitude 1 cos 2 6 Equation 6 shows that the worst case maximum combined amplitude of the two selected phase variant vectors which will be shown below to be proportional to SJC power consumption is inversely proportional to the cosine of the angle between the selected phase variants. For orthogonal SJC the angle between the phase variants is 90 degrees with a cosine of zero. As shown by equation 6 this results in a substantially higher combined amplitude for the selected phase variants than for sub orthogonal SJC in which the angle between the phase variants is substantially less than 90 degrees with a cosine substantially greater than zero.

The length of the projection of one vector onto another is proportional to the cosine of the angle between them. For orthogonal vectors which are separated by 90 degrees the cosine of the separation angle is zero and the length of the vector projection is also zero. For sub orthogonal vectors which are separated by an angle substantially less than 90 degrees the cosine of the separation angle is substantially greater than zero and the length of the vector projection is also substantially greater than zero. As shown above the substantially greater than zero cosine of the phase variants used for sub orthogonal SJC results in a substantially lower maximum amplitude for the selected phase variants than for orthogonal SJC and as will be shown below this results in substantially lower power consumption.

The AMP ADJ input signal to amplitude adjustment summation circuit is used to control the amplitudes of the summation currents derived from the two selected differential phase variant input signals PHASE A PHASE A and PHASE B PHASE B by varying the capacitance values of capacitors and . The AMP ADJ signal is generated by phase variant selection circuit . The power consumption of SJC circuit is dominated the power consumption of amplitude adjustment summation circuit which is dominated by the power consumed by buffer amplifier bias currents and . Because these bias currents must be large enough to supply signal current to the capacitors during the negative half cycles of the RF signal swing their minimum required values are determined by the amplitudes of the summation currents derived from the two phase variant input signals. To minimize buffer amplifier bias current the amplitude adjustment summation circuit is typically designed such that each buffer amplifier bias current is adjusted together with the capacitance value of the capacitor driven by the buffer amplifier. Thus as the capacitors are adjusted by AMP ADJ to optimize self jammer cancellation the buffer amplifier bias currents are also simultaneously adjusted by the same AMP ADJ input signal to minimize power consumption for the specific self jammer being received and cancelled.

The power consumption of the buffer amplifiers and of both the amplitude adjustment summation circuit and the overall SJC circuit is thus proportional to the phase variant summation current amplitudes. SJC circuit power consumption can thus be reduced by reducing the amplitudes of the phase variant summation currents used to create the cancellation replica. As discussed above the combined phase variant amplitude for sub orthogonal SJC is substantially smaller than the combined phase variant amplitude for orthogonal SJC. Thus sub orthogonal SJC may be implemented with lower power consumption than the orthogonal SJC approach shown in . Lower power consumption provides several benefits such as longer battery life reduced heat generation and lower operating cost.

The poly phase filter illustrated in diagram includes two interconnected four section poly phase filter rings with one differential input TX SIG TX SIG . The component values are selected such that the phase shift across each resistor is 45 degrees. This allows each section to generate phase outputs of 45 and 90 degrees with a total of eight outputs for the double ring filter. Thus the eight phase variant outputs are separated by 45 degrees in phase. The outputs of poly phase filter may be configured as differential signals by coupling each output with its opposite in phase for example PHASE1 PHASE5 PHASE6 PHASE2 etc.

A sub orthogonal self jammer cancellation circuit according to embodiments may employ a single or multiple poly phase filter rings in a phase variant generation circuit . Diagram is an example poly phase filter circuit with one differential input TX SIG TX SIG and three poly phase filter rings in which the component values in the ring sections are chosen such that the phase shift across each resistor is 30 degrees. This example triple ring poly phase filter has twelve phase variant outputs which are separated by 30 degrees in phase. The outputs of poly phase filter may be configured as differential signals by coupling each output with its opposite in phase for example PHASE1 PHASE7 PHASE9 PHASE3 etc.

According to other embodiments a sub orthogonal self jammer cancellation circuit may be implemented with additional filter rings different filter sections tap configurations and outputs in order to generate more than four phases. While additional phase variants may mean an increased number of components the consumed power decreases in proportionality to the phase variant amplitudes which in turn decrease in proportion to a number of the phase variants. Of course other filter designs may also be employed to generate phase variants.

Embodiments also include methods. Some are methods of operation of an RFID reader or an RFID reader system. Others are methods for controlling an RFID reader or an RFID reader system. Yet others are methods for controlling one or more RFID tags. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the ways described in this document. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in this document.

Process begins at optional operation in which a calibration process is optionally performed for the selection of the phase variant amplitudes. The calibration may be repeated after each power off antenna change etc. At operation a signal associated with a reader transmit signal is received at the self jammer cancellation circuitry.

At operation following operation two or more phase variants are generated from the signal received in operation . At operation two of the phase variants are selected where the phase difference between the selected phase variants is substantially less than 90 degrees. The two phase variants selected are the phase variant with the closest phase less than the desired phase of the cancellation vector and the phase variant with the closest phase greater than the desired phase of the cancellation vector. At operation amplitudes are selected for the two phase variants selected in operation . The amplitudes are selected such that a combination of the two amplitude adjusted selected phase variants cancels the self jammer signal at the receive circuitry of the reader.

At operation the two amplitude adjusted selected phase variants are superimposed with the self jammer signal substantially cancelling the self jammer signal and allowing the received tag signal s to be processed by the receive circuitry.

The operations included in process are for illustration purposes. Performing sub orthogonal self jammer cancellation according to embodiments may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or aspects it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or aspect within such block diagrams or examples e.g. tags and readers according to embodiments may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the RFID self jammer embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented employing integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the means of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods configurations command structures and the like which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

