---

title: Securely rendering online ads in a host page
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for rendering online ads on a webpage. A first inter-frame communication channel is created, which comprises a first communication channel between a first cross-domain frame and a host page, such as the webpage. The first cross-domain frame comprises content from a domain that is different than that of the host page domain. A second inter-frame communication channel is created comprising a second communication channel between the first cross-domain frame and a second cross-domain frame in the host page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558289&OS=09558289&RS=09558289
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09558289
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
In a computing environment websites and associated webpages often host online advertisements intended to be viewed by online users of the respective websites. Online advertisements typically come from a different domain than that of the hosting website for example where the hosting website utilizes their servers to provide the website and ad syndicators utilize their servers to provide ad content. Online advertisers and hosting websites typically work with the ad syndicator which takes calls for ads from the host pulls ads from the advertiser and then directs the ads to the host s website. Often online ads have rich media functionality including an ability to expand move about a webpage and or show rich media interaction between multiple ads.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Typically when a host website wishes to display an online ad in a webpage the webpage hosting webpage can call to an ad syndicator indicating specifications for an open ad space in the host webpage. As an example an ad can be called by a browser on the user s client e.g. locally . Similarly an ad can be called by the hosting webpage s server e.g. remotely to an ad syndicator s server where script for the ad is then delivered to the user via the webpage. The ad syndicator can pull an ad from a catalogue of ads supplied by advertisers which meets the specifications supplied by the host webpage. Often the ad syndicator will load script for a selected ad directly into the script of the host webpage in such a way that the browser treats the script for the ad content as a part of the host webpage s script. When this occurs the ad is often allowed to freely interact with the host webpage in order to provide for rich functionality including expanding or contracting changing its position spawning child advertisements and or interacting with other ads on the host webpage.

However inserting the ad script in this manner also grants the ad many if not all privileges that the host webpage may have in the browser. Unfortunately malicious ads may also be inserted into the host webpage in this manner creating an opportunity to damage a host website or steal users personal identifiable information. Further some ads may not function properly if the webpage is updated with different script and the ad script has not been updated to work with new host webpage. Additionally a webpage host may be able to take advantage of an ad owner by manipulating the ad content inside the browser such as by inflating the number of times an ad appears to have been clicked on by a user for example e.g. where the ad owner pays the webpage host based on the number of clicks .

As an illustrative example a webmail system may host a third party advertisement such as provided by the ad syndicator. The ad may be integrated by the ad syndicator in a way that allows the ad to freely expand out or fly around the host webpage and even spawn and interact with child ads. However this ad also has a potential to view users emails on the hosting page and to steal user credentials from the host website s cookies for example. Further from the perspective of protecting an ad owner a host could charge an ad owner more where the host programmatically increases the number of times an ad appears to have been clicked on by a user.

Additionally ad developers typically have to understand the host webpage s publisher to write ad execution code that does not conflict with the host page particularly with the rich media development of online ads. When a host page publisher updates the content functionality or other elements of the page this problem become exacerbated as the ad developer s execution code may no longer properly function with the newly updated code. One solution is to inform the ad developer who develops new code for the ad then runs it through testing and recertification for the page. However this process can be onerous time consuming and expensive.

Previous and current solutions to ad serving security issues have limitations that may not make them as functional or provide for extensive proprietary updates to users ad syndicators and advertiser s systems. In one such solution an ad created by the advertiser can be sent by a third party advertising vendor and loaded on the host webpage in a cross domain frame or window and the ad can be effectively isolated from the host webpage. However in this example due to the isolation there may be no client side interaction with the host page which may limit the ad s rich functionality.

In another such solution an ad created by the advertiser can be pulled by the ad syndicator transformed into pure text and loaded into the host webpage. However in this solution the ad may not be able to contain executable code which can also mitigate the ad s rich functionality. Other solutions utilize ad code scanning techniques or blacklisting techniques that are designed to prohibit certain functions in the host webpage. However these solutions may not be able to cover newly developed malicious attacks may block legitimate ads and often require additional code installed to browsers or other ad syndication systems.

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed herein for securely serving online ads on a host webpage while allowing for rich media functionality of the online ads but not the undesirable attacks by malicious third parties for example. Further the techniques and systems disclosed can provide for a better ad provider experience when webpage hosts update their content as the ad content can relatively seamlessly integrate with the webpage content as intended for example inside a secure box that is separated from the host page content.

In one embodiment for rendering online ads on a webpage a first inter frame communication channel is created. The first inter frame communication channel comprise a first communication channel between a first cross domain frame e.g. for securely hosting ad content and a host page. The first cross domain frame comprises content e.g. ad content from an ad syndicator from a domain that is different from that of the host page. Further in this embodiment a second inter frame communication channel is created which comprises a second communication channel between the first cross domain frame and a second cross domain frame e.g. for hosting additional ad content from the same or different ad owner or syndicator in the host page.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Content displayed in the online advertisements is typically provided by one or more advertisement owners or ad network entities for example which are located and or hosting the ad content remotely from the webpage host. In code for the advertisement content is executed in the host webpage s domain and may have the same priorities and or privileges as the host of the host webpage . For example hypertext markup language HTML in the host webpage may comprise initial script that can call to the ad owner network for an ad . In this example when the user s client browser renders the webpage the script can be executed at which point an ad call can be made to the ad owner network for a display ad e.g. ad content .

As an illustrative example online display ads typically communicate their message through images videos and interactive rich media in standard ad unit sizes governed by the Internet Advertising Bureau IAB . In this example the ads typically delivered by ad networks are treated the same as content from the host publisher of the page or operate on the same level as execution on the client browser as host content. One reason for allowing the ad content to be treated the same as the host publisher content for example is that advertising content has become more advanced. Script in the ad content can comprise instructions that govern rendering of the ad.

If an ad is a simple image for example the rendering script may be minimal. However in some embodiments advanced ads can provide more complex script that instruct on a position of the ad and other activities such as expansion contraction movement and interaction with other ads on the page. For example when a mouse over event occurs over ad content the script may call for expansion to deploy a video. Further as another example ad content may spawn one or more child ad displays on the page such as to provide rich animations and or interactions. Allowing the ad content to run like host script facilitates these advanced renderings.

However allowing the ad content script to run as host content can provide access to everything on the page to the ad owner for example. Often host webpages may comprise a user s personal information and or security sensitive information such as user IDs passwords account numbers and more. Further when a host webpage publisher updates their page such as with new formatting content script etc. ad content may no longer work as desired in the updated page for example if the script needs to interact with the publisher s script.

In a sort of safe ad container can be created for ad content running on the host page . In this embodiment the ad scripts cannot read the host page content thereby providing a layer of security for the host . In one embodiment the ad containers can comprise cross domain inline frames iframes . A cross domain iframe comprises a frame that is placed inline with the host page script but is blocked from any interaction with the host script. Further the content of the cross domain iframe can be from a different domain than that of the host webpage.

For example the host may provide the host page from a first website domain such as hosted on the host s servers while the content in the iframes comes from a second domain such as hosted on the ad owner network servers . However one problem associated with these safe ad containers for example is that the ad content may not be able to provide rich media such as expansion movement spawning of children animations and or interactions. As an example the ad content may be limited to displaying merely within the boundaries of the ad container . Further security provided by cross domain frames is provided by existing browser standards. That is for example browsers that are currently available to the general public utilize a standard that provides for the safe containers. However a browser application may be written that does not comply with these standards and may not comprise the security provided by the cross domain iframes for example. In one example a container may lose its functionality and or otherwise no longer be functional in a newly written browser.

Accordingly as provided herein a method may be devised that provides a secure environment for hosting ad content that comprises rich content such as movement expansion spawning children and interactions. is a flow diagram of an exemplary method for rendering online ads on a webpage. The exemplary method begins at and a first cross domain frame is created in a host page at where the cross domain frame comprises content from a different domain than that of the host page. As described above for example the cross domain frame can comprise an iframe where content in the iframe is prevented from interacting with the host page content.

In one embodiment host ad space can be created in the host webpage to accommodate an initial size of the first cross domain frame. In this embodiment the host ad space can act as a place holder for potential ads for example. Further the first cross domain frame e.g. an inline cross domain frame comprising content from a different domain than that of the host webpage can be inserted as a floating layer above the host webpage and aligned with the host ad space. As an example when the host webpage makes and ad call to an ad syndicator to pull an ad from an advertiser ad content can be inserted into the first cross domain frame instead of directly into the host webpage.

In one embodiment the host ad space can comprise an initial height and width such as corresponding to an ad space size found in the IAB guidelines. As an example the host webpage may create host ad space comprising a specified width and height. In this example the host webpage can call to an ad syndicator with the specified width and height which can correspond to an initial width and height of an advertiser s ad content. In this way the ad syndicator can provide merely those ads that may have an initial width and height meeting the specifications of the host webpage. In this example the host ad space does not contain host content so as to avoid conflicts with ad content.

In this embodiment for example because the ad content is contained within the first cross domain frame the ad may not be granted privileges of the host webpage in the browser thereby providing a more secure environment for the host webpage. However if the ad content is configured to expand e.g. upon a mouse over by a user the first cross domain frame may need to expand to accommodate the expanded ad content in the host webpage.

At a first inter frame communication channel is created that comprises a first communication channel between the first cross domain frame and the host page. As an example as illustrated in a secure communications channel may be created that allows the first cross domain frame to communicate requests e.g. to expand or move the frame to the host webpage . Upon receiving such a request for example the host webpage can programmatically expand the first cross domain frame to accommodate expanded ad content such as from the ad owner network for example which can float over the host provided content. In this way in this example functionality of the ad content can be accommodated while security of the host webpage may be maintained. Further in one embodiment the host webpage may communicate with the frame s contents e.g. ad content over the first communication channel in order to configure display properties or other functionalities.

At in the exemplary method a second cross domain frame is created in the host page that comprises content from a different domain than the host page. For example referring to ad content in the first cross domain frame may make a request to the host page to create a second or third or more frame to accommodate new ad content or the host webpage may be set up to comprise more than one frame to host ad content. In this example a second secure cross domain frame and third can be created in the host page . As described above one or more second cross domain frames can comprise secure iframes that effectively segregate host content from the ad content inside the frame. Further in one embodiment a first inter frame communication channel can be created as a first communication channel between the second cross domain frame and the host page .

At in the exemplary method a second inter frame communication channel is created that comprises a second communication channel between the first cross domain frame and the second cross domain frame in the host page. As an illustrative example with reference to the second communication channel can be created between the first cross domain frame comprising ad content one and the second cross domain frame comprising ad content two e.g. a second ad and or one spawned by ad one . Further the second communication channel can be created between the first cross domain frame and the third cross domain frame comprising ad content three e.g. a third ad and or an ad spawned by ad one or by ad two and a second communication channel can be created between the second cross domain frame and the third cross domain frame e.g. and so on such as between additional ads created or spawned in the host page .

In one embodiment creating a second inter frame communication channel can comprise creating a secure communications channel that passes data such as a communications requests from the first cross domain frame to the host page then to the second cross domain frame. Further in this embodiment the second cross domain frame can communicate with the first cross domain frame by passing communications to the host page which passes the communications to the first cross domain frame.

As an example a first and second ad may both wish to run video content in their respective secure frames on the host page. However realizing that running videos concurrently may not be an effective way to get the user s undivided attention the ad contents may negotiate a timing of the videos. In this example respective ads may be from different domains or the same and may or may not have pre negotiated terms. Here the ad contents can negotiate timing or at least acknowledge the other s presence to provide for running their desired content at different times for example.

In another embodiment creating a second inter frame communication channel can comprise creating the first cross domain frame and the second cross domain frame where content in both frames is from the same domain. That is for example the first and second cross domain frames can comprise content from the same domain but from a different domain than the host for example. In this embodiment in order for the content from the first and second domains to send data over the second communication channel a reference location in the host page for the first frame can be passed to the second frame and vice versa.

As an example the content from the first cross domain frame may wish to communicate a request to interact with a second frame e.g. spawn expand contract add header space move the second frame etc. in order to initiate an interactive ad with the second frame. As an illustrative example the first frame may wish to create a second frame to pass ad content from the first frame to the second frame as an animation such as an ad that drops a burger bun top from the first frame onto a burger in the second frame then drops the burger and bun top from the second frame to a bottom bun in a third frame. In having created the second inter frame communications channel the exemplary method ends at .

In one aspect a benefit of using the ad container s for hosting ad content is that they can provide for upgrade protection compliance etc. For example as described above an ad may cease to function properly when the host page is updated as the host page content may interfere with or not allow proper functionality with the ad content. In one embodiment this problem may be mitigated because the ad container can remain constant even when the host page is updated for example as the ad content and host content are segregated. Therefore for example if the ad content properly utilizes an API provided to communicate requests over an intra frame channel a developer does not have to worry about making ad related code work on all versions of a particular host site. Further in this embodiment if the ad content is upgraded an ad developer merely has to abide by the API in the ad container for example. Thus the corollary also holds such that ad content can be upgraded regardless of the state or version of the host and vice versa.

In another aspect utilizing the ad containers for example may allow a host to have more control over what type of ads it desires to serve on the host page. For example on some pages the host may not want ads to expand because content next to the ad that is important for the user experience. In this example without potential restrictions afforded by an ad container the host page may be at the mercy of the advertiser to not have expanding ads. Accordingly in one embodiment the host can choose to shut down an API that communicates ad request for expanding ads. In one example the ad may resultantly be clipped due to an inability of the ad container to expand even if the ad attempts to utilize the expansion API. Nevertheless the benefit of having the user experience the content on the page may outweigh the cost of clipping the ad and thus the ad container may be prevented from expanding.

In one embodiment a secure cross domain frame e.g. an iframe is used to isolate ad content. The website host publishes the host webpage for example to the Internet which is accessed and viewed by the online user. The website host has appropriate access and privileges for the host webpage and can in this example render a cross domain iframe inside inline the host webpage. By default content inside the cross domain iframe cannot interact with the host webpage for example creating a substantial barrier between the frame s content e.g. ads and the host webpage. In this way in this embodiment malicious attacks originating from the frame s content for example can be mitigated.

In this embodiment an ad owner syndicator network can generate ad content that is intended to be displayed on the host webpage. As an example the ad content generated by the ad owner can be inserted into the cross domain iframe in the host webpage. In this way the ad owner may merely have access to content inside the cross domain iframe and can be barred from interacting with the host webpage. However at a first inter frame e.g. cross domain communications channel can be created between the first cross domain frame and the host webpage for example to aid in the ad content rich media functionality.

In one embodiment ad content inside the cross domain frame e.g. a cross domain inline frame iframe may wish to communicate with the host webpage. As an example ad content that is configured to expand upon a specified event e.g. a mouseover the ad content may not be able to expand due to a fixed size of the cross domain frame. However in this example if the ad content can communicate an intention to expand to the host webpage the host webpage may programmatically expand the cross domain frame to accommodate the expanded ad content. Additionally the host webpage may wish to communicate across to the frame in order to control display properties or other functionalities inside the frame. As an example the host webpage may wish to display a title bar in the frame that displays the origin of the ad content.

In this embodiment the first inter frame communications channel e.g. a flash channel can be created that allows direct transfer of data e.g. communication between the contents of the cross domain frame and the host webpage. In the example embodiment a request can be made from the first cross domain frame to the host. However because security of the host webpage may still be a concern if the ad content is able to communicate with the host webpage techniques can be employed that provide a secure inter frame communications channel. As an example additional code such as one or more application programming interfaces APIs may be inserted on either side of the communications channel both inside the cross domain frame and outside the frame in the host webpage that provides specified security measures.

At the request can be filtered such as by subjecting the communication to one or more security measures. In one embodiment of an applied security measure merely white listed data may be allowed to travel over the first communication channel such as between the first cross domain frame and the host page. In this embodiment merely those functions the code e.g. API deems to be safe may be white listed e.g. allowed to run in the frame.

As an example the additional code can make anonymous event handlers undetachable inside the frame so that they cannot be changed or removed by an ads code although they run together with the latter inside the frame. Further in this example JavaScript closure objects and functions can be used inside the frame. The white listing in this example has an advantage over black listing of prior solutions as there is less of an open surface e.g. less potential methods for a malicious attack or unauthorized use of information in white listing. Using white listing the host webpage provides a limited list of allowable functions whereas blacklisting provides a list of disallowed functions.

In another embodiment of an applied security measure a source of data traveling over the first communication channels can be validated prior to allowing the data to cross to the host page. For example where the domain of the first cross domain frame is known by the host page the source of the request for example can be checked against the known domain e.g. to see if there is a match . In another embodiment when a first cross domain frame is created in the host webpage a token can be planted in the first cross domain frame which can be used for communicating across the first communication channels. For example secret tokens may be generated that are shared between the codes e.g. APIs inside and outside the frame. In this example the code inside the frame can provide the secret token to merely white listed actions to inhibit nefarious activity.

In another embodiment of an applied security measure the communication sent to the host page across the first communication channels can be serialized and the serialized communication can be treated as a non executable string. That is for example a request or command sent by ad content in the first cross domain frame is not sent as executable code such as executable JavaScript to the host webpage instead the request or command can be read in series as non executable text e.g. and disregarded if determined to be undesirable . In this way malicious or unauthorized code is less likely to be executed in the host webpage merely by sending it across the communication channel.

It will be appreciated that while several examples of security measures have been discussed herein the techniques described in these embodiments are not limited to any particular security measures. Those skilled in the art may devise additional methods and means for providing security. For example the additional code e.g. APIs can send heart beat messages across the channel to monitor the condition of the frame to determine if the security code or measures inside the frame are deactivated e.g. when code attempts to maliciously navigate the domain of the frame away to another domain .

At in the exemplary embodiment if the request from the first cross domain frame does not pass the desired security measures for the first communications channel NO at the request is ignored and or discarded at . However if the request from the first cross domain frame passes the desired security measures for the first communications channel YES at the request can be serialized and passed to the host webpage at as described above.

As described above in one embodiment the first inter frame communication channel can be secured by using a list of allowed functionalities for content inside the first cross domain frame. In the example embodiment the serialized request may comprise one or more functionalities from a list of allowed functionalities which can comprise one or more frame display properties e.g. size shape location one or more frame utilities e.g. what goes on in the frame interactions with other frames and or one or more frame user interface functionalities e.g. performing an action based on a user action for example.

In response to a request originating from the first cross domain frame the host webpage performs an action on the first cross domain frame at . In one embodiment the response can comprise resizing the first cross domain frame within the host page such as to accommodate expanded add content e.g. a video moving a cross domain frame within the host page such as to follow the user s movements within the page broadcasting a message to one or more cross domain frames such as to negotiate or synchronize content and or closing a cross domain frame such as after a desired content is displayed.

In another embodiment the request across the first communications channel from the content in the first cross domain frame can comprise creating one or more second cross domain frames at and the response can comprise spawning a child cross domain frame within the host page. In one embodiment the request may comprise creating a plurality of second cross domain frames for example thereby spawning a plurality of child frames in the host page. For example the ad content in the first cross domain frame may wish to provide a rich interactive media experience to the user to imprint a brand on the user. In this example the plurality of ads can interact with each other across the page in conjunction with the host page content.

At a second inter frame communications channel is created such as between the first and second e.g. and third etc. cross domain frames in the host page. As described above the second communications channel can allow the content in respective secure frames to pass data e.g. communicate between each other. Further in one or more embodiments the security measures described above for the first inter frame communications channel can also be applied to the second communication channel selectively. In particular for example when the second communications channel routes data through the host webpage to be exchanged with one or more frames the described security measures may be applied.

At in the exemplary embodiment the first and second cross domain frames e.g. and third etc. can synchronize with each other such as across the second communications channel to provide coordinated rendering of one or more online ads. In one embodiment the request such as may comprise a synchronization request and the response can provide for synchronizing content between two or more cross domain frames. For example synchronizing can comprise negotiating display of content between two competing ads or providing rich media interaction between two or more ads.

In one embodiment as an illustrative example when two or more ads from a same domain are communicating with each other such as to synchronize ad content e.g. provide rich interaction some security measures may or may not be applied. In this example the ads can communicate in the same domain without compromising security as they are both securely segregated from the host page content in the ad containers. One reason for relaxing security for this type of communication between ads is because a security whitelist of functionalities may not be able to accommodate every way that ads can be written to communicate with one other. Where an ad is communicating with another ad from a different domain it may be less desirable however to relax security measures for example.

In one embodiment the process can iterate for example where next request can comprise requesting creation of a third cross domain frame. Further the respective cross domain frames created in the host page can send requests across the first communications channel to the host page for example where a second or third frame wishes to expand or spawn a child frame.

A system may be devised that provides a secure environment for hosting ad content that comprises rich content such as movement expansion spawning children and interactions. is a component diagram of an exemplary system for coordinating online ad content on a host page. A processor e.g. a computer based processor processes data for the system and is operably coupled with a frame host communication channel creation component . The frame host communication channel creation component creates a frame host communication channel between the host page and a first cross domain frame hosted in the host page . A frame frame communication channel creation component is also operably coupled with the processor and it creates a frame frame communication channel between the first cross domain frame and a second cross domain frame hosted in the host page .

In one embodiment the first cross domain frame can comprise the frame host communication channel creation component which can be activated by content in the first cross domain frame . For example the frame creation component can create the first cross domain frame with the frame host communication channel creation component inside the frame. In this example when the host webpage calls for an ad syndicator to load ad content the loading of the content and or an action by the content can activate the frame host communication channel creation component to create the frame host communication channel between the host page and a first cross domain frame .

In one embodiment the first cross domain frame can comprise the frame frame communication channel creation component which can be activated by content in the first cross domain frame . For example the frame creation component can create the first cross domain frame with the frame frame communication channel creation component inside the frame. In this example after or concurrent with the second cross domain frame is created an action by the content can activate the frame frame communication channel creation component to create the frame frame communication channel between the first cross domain frame and a second cross domain frame .

In one embodiment the frame frame communication channel can pass data e.g. communications from the first cross domain frame to the second cross domain frame or vice versa through the host page . In another embodiment the frame frame communication channel can pass data e.g. communications from the first cross domain frame to the second cross domain frame or vice versa in a same domain. In this embodiment the content from the first cross domain frame and content from the second cross domain frame are comprised in the same domain.

In one embodiment where the first and second cross domain frames respectively comprise content from the same domain the frame frame communication channel creation component can pass a reference for the content from the second cross domain frame to the first cross domain frame . Further the frame frame communication channel creation component can pass a reference for the content from the first cross domain frame to the second cross domain frame . In this way for example the respective cross domain frames from the same domain can effectively communicate with each other for example in the domain without crossing to the host page.

In the example embodiment a security component can filter requests across the frame host communication channel originating from inside the cross domain frame in the host page . In another embodiment the security component can also filter requests across the frame frame communication channel between the cross domain frames in the host page .

In another embodiment a security component can be disposed inside the ad container. For example the frame creation component can create the first cross domain frame with the security component disposed in the frame. Placing the security component inside the frame for example may mitigate cross site scripting attacks which can be done using the ad container. As an illustrative embodiment a hacker may load random content using the ad container hosted on a cross domain for purposes other than serving ads on the host page . In this example the security component inside the ad container can check whether the request is coming from the host and or whether the commands are whitelisted etc.

The security component can comprise a white list comparison component not shown that allows merely white listed data to travel over the frame host communication channel or frame frame communications channel . Further the security component can comprise a validation component not shown that validates a source of data traveling over the frame host communication channel or frame frame communications channel prior to allowing the data to cross to the host page .

Additionally the security component can comprise a token utilization component not shown that plants a token in a cross domain frame created in the host page and merely allows data that has the token to travel over the frame host communication channel or frame frame communications channel . The security component can also comprise a serialization component not shown that serializes the communication to the host page across the frame host communication channel or frame frame communications channel and configures the communication to the host page across the frame host communication channel or frame frame communications channel as a non executable string.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

