---

title: Method of forming ionically-charged, encapsulated colorant nanoparticles
abstract: A method of forming ionically-charged, colorant nanoparticles involves forming in-situ ionically-charged polyurethane monomers, and forming an emulsion including the ionically-charged polyurethane monomers and a colorant nanoparticle. The method further involves polymerizing or crosslinking the ionically-charged polyurethane monomers in the emulsion, where the polymerizing or crosslinking chemically attaches the ionically-charged polyurethane monomers to a surface of the colorant nanoparticle to form an ionically-charged encapsulation layer on the surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08653185&OS=08653185&RS=08653185
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08653185
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
The present disclosure relates generally to methods of forming ionically charged encapsulated colorant nanoparticles.

Encapsulated particles have become increasingly useful in a variety of applications. Such applications include but are not limited to biological applications e.g. drugs cosmetics etc. printing applications e.g. laser printing digital commercial printing etc. and electronic applications e.g. electronic inks light emitting polymers e field displays etc. .

Embodiment s of the method disclosed herein are advantageously used to produce ionically charged encapsulated colorant nanoparticles where such nanoparticles may be utilized in printing applications e.g. electrophotographic printing in electric field driven applications e.g. liquid electrophotography and electronic displays and or the like. Each colorant nanoparticle includes a nanoparticle core that is encapsulated with an ionically charged encapsulation layer that is chemically attached to the core. More specifically positive or negative charges are formed by incorporating cationomers or anionomers into the encapsulation layer that is formed on the nanoparticle core. Due at least in part to the presence of such cationomers or anionomers in the nanoparticle encapsulation layer ink compositions containing such colorant nanoparticles typically do not require additional dispersants and or charge directors to promote or maintain dispersion stability. The ink compositions also exhibit enhanced physical properties including heat resistance solvent resistance print durability such as e.g. rub resistance scratch resistance waterfastness highlight smearfastness and handability as well as improved adhesion to a media surface which leads to improved media gamut.

Yet further the ionically charged colorant nanoparticles have relatively uniform surface properties which tend to reduce or substantially eliminate various undesirable printing effects uneven gloss etc. . Without being bound to any theory it is believed that the uniform surface properties facilitate uniform development of the colorant particles on e.g. the photo imaging plate PIP of a liquid electro printing LEP system or the photoconductor of an electrophotographic printing system as well as unidirectional movement of the particles in electrophoretic displays. The uniform surface properties also allow for at least some flexibility in product design where multiple layers of colorants having various charges are required such as for example for full color non emissive displays.

As used herein in some embodiments the term prepolymer may be used to describe an intermediate product that is reacted with additional monomers or agents to form the charged polyurethane monomers. As used herein in other embodiments the term prepolymer may be used synonymously with the term charged polyurethane monomers.

An example of an ionically charged encapsulated nanoparticle is schematically depicted in . The nanoparticle generally includes a colorant nanoparticle core having an ionically charged encapsulation layer chemically bonded to a surface thereof. The ionically charged encapsulation layer includes ionically charged polyurethane monomers that are polymerized or crosslinked onto the surface of the nanoparticle core . In some instances such polymerizing or crosslinking forms a continuous encapsulation layer that covers the entire surface of the nanoparticle core . Such a continuous layer may be formed when the contact angle of the polymerized or crosslinked polyurethane monomers is less than 80 degrees. Without being bound by any theory it is believed that this may be accomplished when the surface energy of the polyurethane monomers is substantially similar to that of the nanoparticle core . In other instances the polymerizing or crosslinking forms a discontinuous encapsulation layer that covers various portions of the nanoparticle core . Such a discontinuous layer may be achieved for example when the surface energy of the polyurethane monomers is different than that of the nanoparticle core . As used herein the surface energy of the monomers is considered to be different than that of the nanoparticle core when the contact angle of the monomers on the nanoparticle core is 80 degrees or more. In some cases the contact angle of the polyurethane monomers and the nanoparticle core ranges from about 80 degrees to about 100 degrees. In other cases the contact angle ranges from about 80 degrees to about 90 degrees. In still other cases the surface energies are considered to be significantly different when the contact angle of the monomer on the nanoparticle core is greater than 100 degrees. Generally a larger contact angle and a larger difference between the nanoparticle surface energy and the monomer surface energy corresponds with a more discontinuous encapsulation layer .

The encapsulation layer whether continuous or discontinuous generally forms a shell that houses the nanoparticle core . As stated above the layer includes polymerized or crosslinked ionically charged polyurethane monomers where such monomers are chemically attached to the nanoparticle core . In some instances such monomers are actually permanently attached to the nanoparticle core . It is to be understood that the term permanent as used in reference to the attachment of the monomers to the nanoparticle core refers to non reversible encapsulation of the nanoparticle core with the polymerized or crosslinked polyurethane monomers i.e. the ionically charged encapsulation layer permanently remains on the surface of the nanoparticle core . The permanent attachment may be accomplished via covalent bonding when the ionically charged polyurethane monomers chemically react with the nanoparticle . In other instances the layer may be considered to be a thermodynamically reversible coating such as e.g. a layer produced by self assembling processes. The polyurethane monomers may also or otherwise be attached to the nanoparticle core through physical bonding such as e.g. through hydrogen bonding Van der Waals interactions Zwitterionic interactions or the like .

The nanoparticle core i.e. the non encapsulated colorant nanoparticle is formed from any suitable solid nanoparticle including but not limited to colorants e.g. organic pigments inorganic pigments or dyes quantum dots colloidal particles e.g. metal colloids or combinations thereof. The nanoparticle core is also spherically substantially spherically shaped where such particle has an initial size i.e. diameter Dranging from about 1 nm to about 250 nm. Although the average size Dof the nanoparticle core is e.g. about 150 nm it is to be understood that the size of the nanoparticle core depends at least in part on the material selected for such particle. Further the size Dof the encapsulated nanoparticle i.e. the nanoparticle core having the ionically charged encapsulation layer formed thereon ranges from about 50 nm to about 1 m. In another example the size Dof the encapsulated nanoparticle ranges from about 100 nm to about 500 nm.

Examples of organic or inorganic pigment particles may be selected from but are not limited to black pigment particles yellow pigment particles magenta pigment particles red pigment particles cyan pigment particles blue pigment particles green pigment particles orange pigment particles brown pigment particles and white pigment particles. In some instances the organic or inorganic pigment particles may include spot color or specialty pigment particles. Spot color pigments are formed from a combination of a predefined ratio of two or more primary color pigment particles. Specialty pigments may e.g. be metallic fluorescent and or opalescent pigments.

A non limiting example of a suitable inorganic black pigment includes carbon black. Examples of carbon black pigments include those manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Japan such as e.g. carbon black No. 2300 No. 900 MCF88 No. 33 No. 40 No. 45 No. 52 MA7 MA8 MA100 and No. 2200B various carbon black pigments of the RAVEN series manufactured by Columbian Chemicals Company Marietta Ga. such as e.g. RAVEN 5750 RAVEN 5250 RAVEN 5000 RAVEN 3500 RAVEN 1255 and RAVEN 700 various carbon black pigments of the REGAL series the MOGUL series or the MONARCH series manufactured by Cabot Corporation Boston Mass. such as e.g. REGAL 400R REGAL 330R and REGAL 660R and various black pigments manufactured by Evonik Degussa Corporation Parsippany N.J. such as e.g. Color Black FW1 Color Black FW2 Color Black FW2V Color Black FW18 Color Black FW200 Color Black S150 Color Black S160 Color Black S170 PRINTEX 35 PRINTEX U PRINTEX V PRINTEX 140U Special Black 5 Special Black 4A and Special Black 4 . A non limiting example of an organic black pigment includes aniline black such as C.I. Pigment Black 1.

Some non limiting examples of suitable yellow pigments include C.I. Pigment Yellow 1 C.I. Pigment Yellow 2 C.I. Pigment Yellow 3 C.I. Pigment Yellow 4 C.I. Pigment Yellow 5 C.I. Pigment Yellow 6 C.I. Pigment Yellow 7 C.I. Pigment Yellow 10 C.I. Pigment Yellow 11 C.I. Pigment Yellow 12 C.I. Pigment Yellow 13 C.I. Pigment Yellow 14 C.I. Pigment Yellow 16 C.I. Pigment Yellow 17 C.I. Pigment Yellow 24 C.I. Pigment Yellow 34 C.I. Pigment Yellow 35 C.I. Pigment Yellow 37 C.I. Pigment Yellow 53 C.I. Pigment Yellow 55 C.I. Pigment Yellow 65 C.I. Pigment Yellow 73 C.I. Pigment Yellow 74 C.I. Pigment Yellow 75 C.I. Pigment Yellow 81 C.I. Pigment Yellow 83 C.I. Pigment Yellow 93 C.I. Pigment Yellow 94 C.I. Pigment Yellow 95 C.I. Pigment Yellow 97 C.I. Pigment Yellow 98 C.I. Pigment Yellow 99 C.I. Pigment Yellow 108 C.I. Pigment Yellow 109 C.I. Pigment Yellow 110 C.I. Pigment Yellow 113 C.I. Pigment Yellow 114 C.I. Pigment Yellow 117 C.I. Pigment Yellow 120 C.I. Pigment Yellow 124 C.I. Pigment Yellow 128 C.I. Pigment Yellow 129 C.I. Pigment Yellow 133 C.I. Pigment Yellow 138 C.I. Pigment Yellow 139 C.I. Pigment Yellow 147 C.I. Pigment Yellow 151 C.I. Pigment Yellow 153 C.I. Pigment Yellow 154 C.I. Pigment Yellow 167 C.I. Pigment Yellow 172 C.I. Pigment Yellow 180 and C.I. Pigment Yellow 185.

Non limiting examples of suitable magenta or red organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Red 1 C.I. Pigment Red 2 C.I. Pigment Red 3 C.I. Pigment Red 4 C.I. Pigment Red 5 C.I. Pigment Red 6 C.I. Pigment Red 7 C.I. Pigment Red 8 C.I. Pigment Red 9 C.I. Pigment Red 10 C.I. Pigment Red 11 C.I. Pigment Red 12 C.I. Pigment Red 14 C.I. Pigment Red 15 C.I. Pigment Red 16 C.I. Pigment Red 17 C.I. Pigment Red 18 C.I. Pigment Red 19 C.I. Pigment Red 21 C.I. Pigment Red 22 C.I. Pigment Red 23 C.I. Pigment Red 30 C.I. Pigment Red 31 C.I. Pigment Red 32 C.I. Pigment Red 37 C.I. Pigment Red 38 C.I. Pigment Red 40 C.I. Pigment Red 41 C.I. Pigment Red 42 C.I. Pigment Red 48 Ca C.I. Pigment Red 48 Mn C.I. Pigment Red 57 Ca C.I. Pigment Red 57 1 C.I. Pigment Red 88 C.I. Pigment Red 112 C.I. Pigment Red 114 C.I. Pigment Red 122 C.I. Pigment Red 123 C.I. Pigment Red 144 C.I. Pigment Red 146 C.I. Pigment Red 149 C.I. Pigment Red 150 C.I. Pigment Red 166 C.I. Pigment Red 168 C.I. Pigment Red 170 C.I. Pigment Red 171 C.I. Pigment Red 175 C.I. Pigment Red 176 C.I. Pigment Red 177 C.I. Pigment Red 178 C.I. Pigment Red 179 C.I. Pigment Red 184 C.I. Pigment Red 185 C.I. Pigment Red 187 C.I. Pigment Red 202 C.I. Pigment Red 209 C.I. Pigment Red 219 C.I. Pigment Red 224 C.I. Pigment Red 245 C.I. Pigment Violet 19 C.I. Pigment Violet 23 C.I. Pigment Violet 32 C.I. Pigment Violet 33 C.I. Pigment Violet 36 C.I. Pigment Violet 38 C.I. Pigment Violet 43 and C.I. Pigment Violet 50.

Non limiting examples of blue or cyan organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Blue 1 C.I. Pigment Blue 2 C.I. Pigment Blue 3 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 3 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 34 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 4 C.I. Pigment Blue 16 C.I. Pigment Blue 18 C.I. Pigment Blue 22 C.I. Pigment Blue 25 C.I. Pigment Blue 60 C.I. Pigment Blue 65 C.I. Pigment Blue 66 C.I. Vat Blue 4 and C.I. Vat Blue 60.

Non limiting examples of green organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Green 1 C.I. Pigment Green 2 C.I. Pigment Green 4 C.I. Pigment Green 7 C.I. Pigment Green 8 C.I. Pigment Green 10 C.I. Pigment Green 36 and C.I. Pigment Green 45.

Non limiting examples of brown organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Brown 1 C.I. Pigment Brown 5 C.I. Pigment Brown 22 C.I. Pigment Brown 23 C.I. Pigment Brown 25 and C.I. Pigment Brown C.I. Pigment Brown 41 and C.I. Pigment Brown 42.

Non limiting examples of orange organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Orange 1 C.I. Pigment Orange 2 C.I. Pigment Orange 5 C.I. Pigment Orange 7 C.I. Pigment Orange 13 C.I. Pigment Orange 15 C.I. Pigment Orange 16 C.I. Pigment Orange 17 C.I. Pigment Orange 19 C.I. Pigment Orange 24 C.I. Pigment Orange 34 C.I. Pigment Orange 36 C.I. Pigment Orange 38 C.I. Pigment Orange 40 C.I. Pigment Orange 43 and C.I. Pigment Orange 66.

In another embodiment the pigment may be selected from metallic pigments examples of which include but are not limited to a metal selected from gold silver platinum nickel chromium tin zinc indium titanium copper aluminum and alloys of any of these metals. These metals may be used alone or in combinations with two or more metals or metal alloys. Non limiting examples of metallic pigments include Standard RO100 Standard RO200 and DORADO PX 4001 available from Eckart Effect Pigments Wesel Germany .

In yet another embodiment the pigment may be selected from a pearlescent pigment also known as an opalescent pigment which are pigments that tend to exhibit various colors depending on the angle of illumination and or of viewing. Non limiting examples of pearlescent pigments include those of the PRESTIGE series and of the DORADO PX series both of which are available from Eckart Effect Pigments.

Some non limiting examples of dyes that may be used include fluorescein rhodamine nigrosine and napthol green.

An example of a method for forming ionically charged encapsulated colorant nanoparticle is generally depicted in . Such method includes forming in situ ionically charged polyurethane monomers as shown by reference numeral and then encapsulating the nanoparticle core with the ionically charged polyurethane monomers as shown by reference numeral .

The ionically charged polyurethane monomers are used as an emulsifying synergist that aids in the encapsulation of the colorant nanoparticle core . When the encapsulated nanoparticle is used as a colorant in an ink composition such monomers assist in achieving dispersion stability. More specifically since the monomers are charged and include a polymeric segment the monomers may be very similar in structure to polymeric dispersants and or surfactants that are typically used in ink formulations to promote stability. As such use of the charged monomers in the ink formulation obviates the need for additional dispersants to accomplish such stability. Furthermore the localized charges in the encapsulation layer formed on the nanoparticle core also enable the colorant nanoparticle to act as a charge director. As such an ink composition including the colorant nanoparticles does not have to include a separate charge director.

In an embodiment the ionically charged polyurethane monomers are formed in situ for instance in a single container and the process for forming such monomers depends at least in part on whether such monomers are positively or negatively charged. An example of a method for forming positively charged polyurethane monomers referred to herein as polyurethane cationomers is shown in while an example for forming negatively charged polyurethane monomers referred to herein as polyurethane anionomers is shown in E and F.

Referring now to the example depicted in polyurethane cationomers are formed by reacting in a single reactor R a diol or polyol with a diisocyanate to form an isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer shown in . The ratio of diol or polyol to diisocyante is about 1 2 depending upon the materials selected and the desirable cationomer to be formed discussed further in reference to . In one embodiment the diisocyanate is introduced into the reactor R and then the diol or polyol is added to the diisocyanate via e.g. an addition funnel over a predetermined time period. It is to be understood that ratio of diol or polyol to diisocyanate may be more or less than 1 2 because the diol or polyol is added to the diisocyante to maximize formation of the condensed intermediate i.e. the prepolymer shown in . In a non limiting example the time period ranges from about 3 hours to about 6 hours. This time period may vary depending upon the materials used. The reaction shown taking place in may take place in an inert atmosphere at a temperature ranging from about 50 C. to about 70 C. In a non limiting example this reaction takes place at a temperature of about 60 C.

In the foregoing example and as briefly mentioned above the diol or polyol is added to the diisocyanate to maximize the formation of the condensed form of the intermediate e.g. the polyurethane prepolymer . The polyurethane prepolymer intermediate formed by adding the diol or the polyol to the diisocyanate includes isocyanate groups located at terminals ends of the prepolymer. For instance diethanol amine may be added to the diisocyanate in the reactor R shown in so that the diethanol amine reacts with excess isocyanates in the reactor R to cap both ends of the alcohol. This is shown e.g. in the reaction scheme A depicted in .

It is to be understood that the order in which the reactants are added dictates in part the type of intermediate that is formed. For example if the diisocyanate is added to an excess of the diol or the polyol already present in the reactor R rather than the other way around as described above the ends of the diisocyanate are capped. This is shown e.g. in row of the reaction scheme C in . This intermediate is a macro diol or a macro polyol. It is to be further understood that in some instances the rate of the addition of the reactants in addition to the order in which the reactants are added also dictates the type of intermediate or product that is formed. The rate may be determined by monitoring the consumption of the reactant being introduced into the reactor R. This may be accomplished for example using various techniques known in the art such as e.g. thin layer chromatography TLC and high performance liquid chromatography HPLC . Routine control over the addition rate enables control over the formation of one intermediate or product over another intermediate or product.

To form positively charged polyurethane monomers the diol or polyol starting material is generally selected from a base and may be selected from a variety of bi functional molecules i.e. containing two free hydroxyl groups or tri functional molecules i.e. containing more than two free hydroxyl groups . As will be discussed in further detail below at least in conjunction with bi functional molecules e.g. diols may be selected so that the resultant polyurethane monomers individually include two crosslinking sites so that upon polymerization or crosslinking the monomers are capable of chain extension. As will also be discussed in further detail below at least in conjunction with tri functional molecules e.g. triols may be selected so that the resultant polyurethane monomers individually include at least three crosslinking sites also referred to herein as multiple crosslinking sites so that such monomers are capable of high density networking upon polymerization or crosslinking.

Non limiting examples of suitable bi functional molecules include ethylene glycols alkane diols N N bis 2 hydroxy propylaniline DHPA 1 4 di 2 hydroxyethyl hydroquinone HQEE dialcohol amines two hydroxyl group containing polyols such as e.g. polypropylene glycols PPGs polyethylene glycols PEGs polyester polyols aliphatic polyester polyols polycaprolactone polyols aromatic polyester polyols polytetramethylene ether glycols castor oil based polyols and acrylic polyols hydroxyl terminated polybutadienes and or combinations thereof. Non limiting examples of tri functional molecules include glycerine trimethylolpropane triethanol amine pentaerythritol sorbitol sucrose polyols having more than two free hydroxyl groups and or combinations thereof.

The diisocyanate may be selected from any suitable diisocyanate. Some non limiting examples of suitable diisocyanates include the isomeric forms of the following toluene diisocyanate TDI diphenylmethane diisocyanate MDI hexamethylene diisocyanate HDI isophorone diisocyanate IPDI m tetramethylxylene diisocyanate m TMXDI dicyclohexylmethane 4 4 diisocyanate HMDI and or combinations thereof. In another example the diisocyanate may be selected from any isocyanate terminated prepolymers that are commercially available examples of which include the VERSATHANE series and the AIRTHANE series both from Air Products and Chemicals Inc. Allentown Pa. .

Referring now to a hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomer is then introduced into the reactor R that contains the isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymers produced by the step depicted in . Non limiting examples of such hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers include hydroxyethyl acrylate HEA or hydroxyethyl methacrylate HEMA . Such hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers are allowed to react with the isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymers to form a polyurethane based di meth acrylate monomer. In an example upon complete substantially complete e.g. 95 or more consumption of the diisocyanate during the reaction shown in the hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers are added to the reactor R dropwise in the presence of stirring over a predetermined period of time. In a non limiting example the addition of the hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers and the stirring is accomplished for about 1 hour. The mixture may be allowed to react at a temperature ranging from about 70 C. to about 90 C. until all of the hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers are consumed. Base titration may be used in some instances to determine the completeness of the reaction.

It is to be understood that the reaction that takes place during the step depicted in yields uncharged polyurethane monomers. Such monomers may thereafter be positively charged i.e. to become cationomers by introducing an alkylating agent into the reactor R as shown in . Such an alkylating agent may be selected from halomethanes e.g. methyl iodide methyl chloride methyl bromide or the like and dimethyl sulfates. Generally the choice of the alkylating agent determines the counter ion e.g. I Cl Br HCO SO etc. that will be associated with the cationomer when formed. The alkylating agent reacts with the polyurethane based di meth acrylate to impart a cationic charge depicted as a sign in to the polyurethane monomer.

In another embodiment hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers are not added to the isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer formed in . In this embodiment an alkylating agent is added directly to the prepolymer shown in to form the positively charged polyurethane monomer shown in . This reaction results in isocyanate terminated positively charged polyurethane monomers.

More specific non limiting examples of forming polyurethane cationomers are depicted in reaction schemes A through C in respectively. Such reaction schemes are provided herein to demonstrate i how polyurethane cationomers are formed and ii how to tune or alter such polyurethane cationomers during their formation. In an example the structure of the polyurethane cationomer may be altered to achieve a desired crosslinking or polymerization behavior. This may be accomplished by controlling the reaction stoichiometry and or the selection of starting materials i.e. the bi or tri functional molecules and the diisocyanate .

Reaction scheme A depicted in is an example of the synthesis of a crosslinkable polyurethane meth acrylic cationomer that includes two crosslinking sites and is therefore capable of chain extension i.e. linear growth upon crosslinking or polymerization. In sequence of this reaction scheme A a diol e.g. 0.1 mole of N methyl diethanol amine is selected as the bi functional molecule starting material and such material reacts with a diisocyanate of choice e.g. 0.2 moles of hexamethylene diisocyanate to yield an isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer shown by sequence in . The isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer which may be referred to herein as a macro diisocyanate reacts with hydroxyl terminated meth acrylic monomers such as the previously mentioned hydroxyethyl methacrylate or hydroxylethyl acrylate to form a di meth acrylate including two equivalent terminal groups identified by reference character TG and a tertiary amine see sequence in . The di meth acrylate is thereafter treated with an alkylating agent identified in as MeX where such alkylating agent converts the center tertiary amine group to a quaternary amine group bearing a permanent positive charge shown by sequence in . The terminal groups TG are capable of crosslinking to linearly extend the cationomer.

It is to be understood that the bi functional molecule and diisocyanate selected for reaction scheme A also directly affect the physical properties of the polyurethane monomers when such monomers are polymerized or crosslinked onto the nanoparticle core . Examples of such physical properties may include solvent resistance elasticity durability and film forming ability to name a few. For instance the selection of a linear diol may contribute to elastomeric properties of the polymerized or crosslinked polyurethane monomer whereas selection of an aromatic or an alkane for the polyol may increase solvent resistance and or durability.

It is further to be understood that the type of cation imparted to the polyurethane monomer depends at least in part on the type of alkylating agent selected to react with the di meth acrylate in sequence of . The selection of the alkylating agent contributes to the strength and or charge of the resultant cationomer. For example a cationomer bearing a single positive charge i.e. a 1 charge may be obtained by reacting methyl iodide where the methyl group bears a single positive charge and the iodide bears a single negative charge with the di meth acrylate.

In another example the polyurethane cationomer may be formed so that the resulting cationomer includes multiple crosslinking sites i.e. three or more crosslinking sites . This type of cationomer is capable of forming a high density network i.e. where the number of crosslinks or repeating units of the polymer makes up more than about 30 of the cationomer upon crosslinking or polymerization. The formation of this type of cationomer may be accomplished for instance by selecting a starting material exhibiting tri functionality such as e.g. a triol e.g. triethanolamine TEA as shown in the reaction scheme B in . In reaction scheme B the triol reacts with the diisocyanate e.g. hexamethylene diisocyanate to form the isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer shown at sequence in . The isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer is then allowed to react with hydroxyl terminated meth acrylic monomers to form a di meth acrylate including three equivalent terminal groups TG and a tertiary amine shown at sequence in . The di meth acrylate is treated with an alkylating agent MeX to convert the center tertiary amine group to a quaternary amine group including a permanent positive charge shown by sequence in .

The resultant cationomer structure includes three crosslinking sites TG and such crosslinking sites are arranged such that the cationomer can react in more than one dimension upon polymerization or crosslinking. Such multi dimensional crosslinking or polymerization enables the cationomer to form crosslinked networks as opposed to linear chains alone as is possible with the cationomer formed by the reaction scheme A in . It is to be understood that the encapsulation layer formed from multi dimensional crosslinked networks tends to be tougher than those with linear crosslinked chains alone. The multi dimensional crosslinkable cationomers also tend to improve the strength and or durability of the encapsulation layer formed therefrom.

In yet another example the strength of the polyurethane cationomer may be controlled by altering the amount of the bi or tri functional molecule used as the starting material which changes the stoichiometry of the bi or tri functional molecule and the diisocyanate starting materials. Controlling the strength of the cationomers in this manner may be referred to herein as charge directing an example of which is shown by reaction scheme C depicted in . In this particular reaction scheme a diol reacts with a diisocyanate to form a macro diol shown by sequence in . The macro diol is formed because the amount of diol used is at least twice as much as the amount of diisocyanate used. It is to be understood that in this example the amount of the diol should exceed that of the diisocyanate to ensure that all of the diisocyanate is consumed during the reaction which typically reduces the amount of by products formed. In one specific example the macro diol is formed by reacting two equivalents of the diol with one equivalent of the diisocyanate. Without being bound to any theory the use of the macro diol for the synthesis of the cationomer increases the number of cations per polyurethane monomer formed. The increased concentration of ions in this instance cations per monomer increases the ionic strength of the monomer.

As shown at sequences and in the macro diol is reacted with another diisocyanate to form an isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer sequence and then the isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer reacts with hydroxyl terminated meth acrylic monomers to form a di meth acrylate including two equivalent terminal groups TG sequence and two tertiary amine groups. The di meth acrylate is treated with an alkylating agent MeX to convert the two tertiary amine groups to quaternary amine groups each of which carries a positive charge shown by sequence in .

It is to be understood that the cationomer structure may be controlled using methods other than as described above in order to achieve other desirable properties. For instance the diisocyanate may be selected from a material that exhibits similar chemical structure s functional group s as the nanoparticle core such that encapsulation of the polyurethane cationomer on the core is more favorable. In an example the nanoparticle core may include benzene in its chemical structure and thus the diisocyanate may be selected from a material also having benzene rings such as e.g. the diisocyanate selected for the reaction scheme C depicted in .

Referring back to the series E and F depict an example of a method for forming polyurethane anionomers. The anionomers may be formed in a similar manner to the previously described cationomers except that i the bi or multi functional molecule is selected from an acid which acts as a hydroxylating agent for the formed prepolymer and ii uses base e.g. amine catalysis to impart an anionic charge to the prepolymer and thus also to the resultant monomer structure. Non limiting examples of acidic bi or multi functional molecules include dimethylol propionic acid dihydroxybenzoic acid and isomers thereof and dihydroxylterephthalic acid.

In an example the polyurethane anionomers are formed in situ by reacting in the single reactor R the acidic bi or multi functional molecules with a diisocyanate to form an isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer shown in . The ratio of the acidic bi or multi functional molecule to diisocyanate or diisocyanate to acidic bi or multi functional molecule is 1 2. When the acidic molecule is present in excess the isocyanate ends will be capped and when the isocyanate is in excess the OH ends of the acidic molecule will be capped. In one embodiment the reactor R is dried and purged with an inert gas and then the acidic molecules are introduced into the reactor R. The acidic molecules are allowed to react with diisocyanate at a temperature ranging from about 50 C. to about 70 C. for a predetermined time. In a non limiting example the predetermined time ranges from about 1 hour to about 12 hours. In another non limiting example the predetermined time ranges from about 3 hours to about 6 hours. This reaction in which the acidic molecules is added to the diisocyanate yields an isocyanate capped prepolymer see .

In this embodiment the reaction shown in is catalyzed using any suitable base such as trialkylated amines e.g. triethylamine or non nucleophilic bases e.g. potassium t butoxide and lithium diisopropylamide or other suitable bases. This will deprotonate the acid group s of the formed prepolymer. It is to be understood that the base may be used in excess to ensure deprotonation of all acidic sites. The charge s are generated as a result of forming a more stable conjugate weak acid. The base catalyzed reaction also generates a cation such as a triethylammonium cation that is present with the charged prepolymer. The result of the catalyzed reaction is a charged isocyanate capped prepolymer as shown in .

As previously mentioned however a charged OH capped prepolymer e.g. a macro diol or macro polyol may be formed when the acidic molecule is present in the reactor R in excess and the diisocyanate is added thereto and then base catalysis is initiated. The macro diol or polyol may then be reacted with another diisocyanate to form an isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer.

Referring to a hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomer is introduced into the reactor R that contains the charged isocyanate capped polyurethane prepolymers produced by the base catalyzed reaction depicted in . Non limiting examples of such hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers include hydroxyethyl acrylate HEA or hydroxyethyl methacrylate HEMA . Such hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers are allowed to react with the charged isocyanate capped prepolymer to form a charged polyurethane based di meth acrylate monomer. In an example upon complete substantially complete e.g. 95 or more consumption of the diisocyanate during the reaction shown in the hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers are added to the reactor R dropwise in the presence of stirring over time using the parameters and conditions described above for forming the cationomers . It is to be understood that the addition of the hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomer may be removed from the method i.e. perform step shown in and base catalysis if it is desirable to form an isocyanate capped polyurethane prepolymer monomer.

While not shown in it is to be understood that the positively charged triethylammonium ion or another cation depending upon the base used is present with the negatively charged polyurethane monomer. Ion exchange may be performed to replace the cations with other suitable cations e.g. Na K and H . It is to be understood that multivalent cations e.g. Ca may also be used to replace the former cations during the ion exchange. The use of multivalent cations may cause complexation of the ionomer which ultimately leads to at least one more degree of crosslinking. Ion exchange may be accomplished in one embodiment by passing the mixture through suitable ion exchange resin columns.

It is to be understood that the diol or polyol and the diisocyanate may be added together to form an uncharged prepolymer and then if desirable the hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers may be introduced into the reactor R to form an uncharged polyurethane monomer. In this embodiment base catalysis is performed after formation of the monomer to introduce the negative charge to the monomer.

Examples of forming polyurethane anionomers are depicted in reaction schemes through in respectively. Such reaction schemes are provided herein to demonstrate i how polyurethane anionomers are formed and ii how to tune or alter such anionomers during such formation. Similar to that described above for cationomers the polyurethane anionomer may also be altered to achieve a desired crosslinking or polymerization behavior. Such is accomplished for example by altering the stoichiometry of the starting materials or by selecting particular starting materials that will directly affect the resulting anionomer structure.

Reaction scheme D depicted in is an example of a synthesis for forming a crosslinkable polyurethane anionomer that includes two crosslinking sites TG and a single negative charge. In this reaction scheme an acidic diol is selected as the bi functional starting material e.g. dimethylol proprionic acid . This acidic diol reacts with a diisocyanate of choice e.g. hexamethylene diisocyanate as shown by sequence in . This reaction is catalyzed by the addition of a strong base also referred to herein as base catalysis such as a trialkylated amine such as e.g. triethylamine EtN . Other examples of strong bases that may be used include but are not limited to non nucleophilic bases such as potassium t butoxide and lithium diisopropylamide. Typically the strong base will be added in excess e.g. in three equivalents to deprotonate all of the acidic groups or sites of the prepolymer. Such a catalyzed reaction yields a negatively charged isocyanate capped polyurethane prepolymer and a positively charged ion e.g. triethylammonium ion as shown by sequence in .

The charged isocyanate capped prepolymer is then reacted with hydroxyl terminated acrylic or methacrylic monomers e.g. hydroxyethyl acrylate HEA or hydroxyethyl methacrylate HEMA to form diacrylate or dimethacrylate urethane monomers including two equivalent terminal groups TG. The monomers may be passed through ion exchange columns to replace the triethylammonium EtNH ions with a cation of choice e.g. Na as shown in sequence in .

Similar to the methods for forming the cationomers discussed above the number of crosslinking sites and or the number of ionic groups present in the anionomers may be altered based on the selection of the bi or multi functional molecules and or the diisocyanate used as starting materials for the synthesis. In an example the acid diol may be replaced with an acid bearing polyol so that the number of crosslinking sites of the resultant anionomer structure increases proportionally according to the number of free OH groups in the acid bearing polyol. If on the other hand the acid diol is replaced with a diacid diol such as e.g. dihydroxylterephthalic acid then the number of negative charges increases. Additionally the anion concentration or strength may be controlled by altering the stoichiometry of the starting materials i.e. use two equivalents of acid diol or polyol and one equivalent of the diisocyanate to form a macro diol or a macro polyol see reaction scheme E .

In reaction scheme E a tetra anionic crosslinkable polyurethane prepolymer is formed by reacting two equivalents of a diacid diol e.g. 2 5 dihydroxyterephthalic acid with one equivalent of diisocyanate of choice e.g. hexamethylene diisocyanate to form a macro diol shown at sequence in . The macro diol is reacted with another diisocyanate e.g. dicyclohexylmethane 4 4 diisocyanate in the presence of a trialkylated amine e.g. EtN catalyst to form a charged isocyanate terminated or capped polyurethane prepolymer shown by reaction sequence in bearing four negative charges and four triethylammonium ions EtNH .

As illustrated at sequence in the charged isocyanate capped prepolymer is then reacted with hydroxyl terminated acrylic or methacrylic monomers e.g. hydroxyethyl methacrylate to form the dimethacrylate urethane monomers including two equivalent terminal groups TG. Also as illustrated at sequence in the monomers may be passed through ion exchange columns to replace the triethylammonium EtNH ions with any desirable cations e.g. Na .

It is further to be understood that the polyurethane anionomers may also be formed via a combinatorial synthesis. Such a synthesis involves using different acid bi or multi functional molecules in the initial step which gives rise to a final composition including different anionomers. For instance as shown in the reaction sequence F in two different acid diols e.g. 2 5 dihydroxyterephthalic acid and dimethylol proprionic acid may be used as starting materials and such diols are reacted with any desirable diisocyanate e.g. hexamethylene diisocyanate and subjected to base catalysis to generate the negatively charged product. Such starting materials may yield three different macro diols. These three macro diols may then be reacted with another diisocyanate to form three different polyurethane anionomers. It is to be understood that such a combinatorial synthesis may also be modified to produce three different polyurethane cationomers e.g. using the starting materials and similar process described in and A through C .

It is to be understood that the reaction schemes depicted in and A through C for forming polyurethane cationomers and anionomers respectively may be accomplished in the absence of moisture. Performing the syntheses in the absence of moisture is desirable because water tends to be reactive toward isocyanate and hydroxyl groups from the water actively participate in the reaction to form a by product that ultimately becomes polyurea. Further the reaction between water and isocyanate can be highly exothermic at elevated temperatures and can form carbon dioxide gas. This may be undesirable and thus the reaction schemes can be performed in the absence of moisture i.e. in an inert atmosphere . Furthermore when the moisture content is low e.g. less than about 100 ppm the reaction between the isocyanate and the hydroxide dominates which minimizes or even eliminates any accumulation of carbon dioxide gas.

In an example any of the cationomers or anionomers formed by the embodiments examples described herein may be tethered with a tag such as e.g. a fluorescent marker or the like where such tag may be detectable by a suitable fluorescent detector. Such tags may advantageously be used for tracing and or detecting the presence of the cationomer or anionomer that is chemically attached to the nanoparticle core . An example reaction scheme for forming a tagged cationomer is shown in . This reaction scheme labeled reaction scheme A is substantially identical to reaction scheme A depicted in except that the diol reacts with a tag in an initial reaction sequence . More specifically as shown in the diol reacts with the tag rhodamine B in the presence of dicyclohexyl carbodimide DCC and dimethylamino pyridine DMAP which are standard peptide coupling reagents to produce a diol tagged with the rhodamine B. It is to be understood that the foregoing reaction may also take place in the presence of other reagents such as e.g. N N diisopropylcarbodiimide DIC 1 Hydroxybenzotriazole anhydrous HOBt and DMAP. Generally to tag the diol or polyol an amount of the tag used is about 1 wt of the total weight percent of the diol or polyol used. In an example about 10 g of the diol reacts with about 1 g of the tag to produce the tagged diol. The tagged diol may then be used in the reaction scheme A in the same manner as the diol is used in the reaction scheme A shown in but the cationomer formed by reaction scheme A shown in reaction sequence of is capable of fluorescing in this case emitting a red color when exposed to a suitable stimulus e.g. light heat etc. .

Other examples of tags for forming cationomers include anthracene 2 carboxylic acid as shown in fluorescein as shown in or any other molecule including a carboxylic group. These tags may be attached to the diol or polyol in the same manner that is shown in and the tagged diol may then be used to form a tagged cationomer as also shown in . It is to be understood that any tag including an amine group non limiting examples of which include rhodamine B amine 2 amino anthracene etc. may be used in a similar manner described in reference to to form tagged acidic diols or polyols and then tagged anionomers. It is to be understood that an amount of the amine group containing tag is about 1 wt of the total weight percent of the acid diol or polyol used to form the anionomer. The tagged acidic diol or polyol may then be used for example in the reaction scheme D shown in but the anionomer formed is capable of fluorescing when exposed to a suitable stimulus e.g. light heat etc. .

Referring back to once the ionically charged polyurethane monomers are formed the nanoparticle core may be encapsulated with the ionically charged polyurethane monomers. Encapsulation of the nanoparticle core may be accomplished via water based encapsulation or non water based encapsulation such as e.g. encapsulation that is hydrocarbon based oil based or the like . Furthermore such encapsulation may be accomplished with or without a polymerization or crosslinking initiator. Examples of the encapsulation method are described in detail below in conjunction with the series.

In an embodiment water based encapsulation may be accomplished when the nanoparticle core selected is hydrophobic. Such encapsulation may be accomplished by forming an emulsion including the ionically charged polyurethane monomers and the hydrophobic nanoparticle cores . For instance the ionically charged polyurethane monomers identified by reference character M are mixed with the nanoparticle cores in a reactor Rto form a discontinuous phase DP shown in . In an example the nanoparticle cores may be selected from those having a surface charge that is opposite of that of the monomers M. As such if the monomers M are embodiments of the cationomers disclosed herein negatively charged nanoparticles cores may be selected. Conversely if the monomers M are embodiments of the anionomers disclosed herein positively charged nanoparticles cores may be selected. In the example shown in each nanoparticle core has a negatively charged functional group on its surface such as e.g. sulfonated copper phthalocyanine CuPc pigments or pigments having terminal carboxylic groups attached thereto or the like and such nanoparticles are mixed with polyurethane cationomers M. The mixture contains for example a nanoparticle to monomer ratio ranging from about 1 1 to about 1 10. In another example the nanoparticle to monomer ratio is about 1 2. As one specific non limiting example 10 grams of nanoparticle pigments may be used with 20 grams of polyurethane monomers M.

The discontinuous phase DP is dispersed into a continuous phase CP shown in reactor R to form the emulsion or dispersion D shown in . Creating the emulsion or dispersion D may be accomplished for example by introducing the discontinuous phase DP into the other reactor R where such other reactor Rcontains the continuous phase CP. The continuous phase CP may include for instance a polar solvent and at least one surfactant. In a non limiting example the discontinuous phase DP containing 10 grams of the nanoparticle cores and 20 grams of polyurethane monomers M is dispersed in about 300 g of the polar solvent containing from about 1 g to about 30 g of surfactant s . It is to be understood that the amount of surfactants used is adjusted depending upon the amount of polyurethane ionomer used. In one embodiment the amount of surfactant ranges from 0.02 wt to about 10 wt of the total weight percent of polyurethane ionomer used. For instance if the total amount of polyurethane ionomers is about 100 g then the amount of surfactant s used ranges from about 0.02 g to about 10 g.

In an example the polar solvent may be selected from water alone. It is to be understood that in one embodiment water is not mixed with another polar solvent because such other polar solvents may in some instances dissolve some of the reaction components. It is to be further understood other polar solvents that will not deleteriously affect the other components may be used in combination with water.

The water may be mixed for example with a single surfactant. In another example the water may be mixed with a combination of surfactants. In either case the surfactant s is are selected from ionic and or nonionic surfactants. In cases where the continuous phase CP includes a combination of surfactants the surfactants may be selected such that the hydrophilic lipophilic balance HLB leads to preferential migration of the surfactants to the interface between the continuous phase CP and the discontinuous phase DP while maintaining the cloud point below the polymerization temperature. Some non limiting examples of suitable ionic surfactants include sulfate based surfactants e.g. sodium dodecylsulfate sodium alkyl sulphate e.g. EMPICOL LXV N sulfonate based surfactants e.g. diphenyloxide sulfonate alkyldiphenyloxide disulfonate e.g. DOWFAX 30599 carboxylate based surfactants and stearates. Some non limiting examples of suitable non ionic surfactants include polyethylene oxide surfactants such as e.g. TERGITOL 15 S 5 and TERGITOL 15 S 30 Dow Chemical Company Midland Mich. EMULAN BASF Corp. Florham Park N.J. LUTENSOL BASF Corp. and IGEPAL Rhodia Inc. Cranbury N.J. .

Dispersing the discontinuous phase DP into the continuous phase CP may be accomplished via any suitable method where the selection of such method depends at least in part on the viscosity of the phases dispersion. Examples of suitable dispersion methods include but are not limited to ultrasonification microfluidization homogenization and or combinations thereof. In instances where the nanoparticle cores are in an agglomerated form even if within a desired size range certain particle preparation techniques such as ball milling and extrusion may also be used to prepare mono dispersed mixture of nanoparticles and monomers M.

In one embodiment the ionically charged polyurethane monomers M in the emulsion dispersion D are polymerized or crosslinked shown in where such polymerization or crosslinking chemically attaches such monomers M to the surface of each nanoparticle core thereby forming ionically charged encapsulated colorant nanoparticles . In the examples of such colorant nanoparticles are positively charged.

In one example polymerization or crosslinking is initiated by introducing a radical initiator RI into the dispersion D. For water based encapsulation utilizing acrylate terminated polyurethane cationomers see e.g. sequences labeled in the radical initiator RI is water soluble. One non limiting example is potassium persulphate KPS . For water based encapsulation utilizing NCO terminated polyurethane cationomers see where hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers are not added prior to the addition of the alkylating agent polymerization may be catalyzed by quaternary alkyl amines e.g. TEA or through the reaction with any compound containing active hydrogen such as e.g. primary aliphatic amines secondary aliphatic amines primary aromatic amines primary hydroxyls secondary hydroxyls water carboxylic acids and or combinations thereof . Polymerization or crosslinking is accomplished at a temperature ranging from room temperature such as about 20 C. to about 100 C. for a predetermined time ranging e.g. from about 5 hours to about 24 hours. In an example the polymerizing or crosslinking is accomplished at a temperature ranging from about 50 C. to about 75 C. for a time period ranging from about 5 hours to about 8 hours.

Whether acrylate terminated polyurethane cationomers or NCO terminated polyurethane cationomers are used it is to be understood that acrylic monomers may be added to the reactor Rduring the formation of the emulsion dispersion D. The acrylic groups of acrylate terminated polyurethane cationomers or anionmers undergo crosslinking or polymerization to form a positively or negatively charged encapsulant layer. It is to be understood that if NCO terminated polyurethane cationomers or anionomers are utilized positively or negatively charged polyurethane polyurea polymers will form.

The encapsulation method described above in conjunction with may also be used for non polar based encapsulation. Such non polar based encapsulation may be used when the nanoparticle core is hydrophilic such as e.g. when such nanoparticles are selected from water dispersible polar pigments and encapsulation of the nanoparticles is accomplished via self assembly of the reciprocating charges.

Referring back to in the instant example the discontinuous phase DP includes a mixture of negatively charged particles and positively charged polyurethane monomers. The discontinuous phase may also include additional hydrophilic acrylic resin such as methacrylic anhydride MAA . Such discontinuous phase DP is dispersed in the continuous phase CP to form a dispersion D as shown in . The continuous phase CP includes an organic non polar solvent and at least one surfactant. The non polar solvent may be selected for example from a hydrocarbon such as e.g. ISOPAR V containing from about g to about 30 g of SOLSPERSE 19000 or from an oil.

Referring again to for hydrocarbon or oil based encapsulation utilizing acrylate terminated polyurethane cationomers see e.g. sequences labeled in the radical initiator RI is oil soluble. One non limiting example is AIBN i.e. azobisisobutyronitrile . In an example the AIBN is dissolved in an acrylic monomer and the solution is incorporated into the reaction vessel R. For hydrocarbon or oil based encapsulation utilizing NCO terminated polyurethane cationomers see where hydroxyl terminated acrylic monomers are not added prior to the addition of the alkylating agent polymerization may be catalyzed by quaternary alkyl amines e.g. TEA or through the reaction with any compound containing active hydrogen such as e.g. primary aliphatic amines secondary aliphatic amines primary aromatic amines primary hydroxyls secondary hydroxyls water carboxylic acids and or combinations thereof .

In the instant example prior to polymerization or crosslinking the attraction of the reciprocating charges i.e. the negatively charged particles and the positively charged monomers M initiates self assembly of the particles and the monomers M.

Polymerizing or crosslinking is then accomplished at a temperature ranging from room temperature such as about 20 C. to about 100 C. for a predetermined time ranging e.g. from about 5 hours to about 24 hours. In an example the polymerizing or crosslinking is accomplished at a temperature ranging from about 50 C. to about 75 C. for a time period ranging from about 5 hours to about 8 hours.

In another embodiment encapsulation of the nanoparticles may be accomplished without a radical initiator or other polymerization aid. This example is schematically depicted in B C E and F and such method may be used when the discontinuous phase DP depicted in includes NCO terminated prepolymers see sequences in and NCO terminated cationomers alone see . In this embodiment the encapsulation may be catalyzed directly by the continuous phase CP e.g. containing a polar solvent such as water . More specifically the dispersion D shown in formed by dispersing the discontinuous phase DP into the continuous phase CP depicted in is transferred to a reaction vessel R which is subsequently heated. Heating initiates polymerization or crosslinking as shown in . In a non limiting example the reaction temperature ranges from about 20 C. to about 100 C. and the time for heating ranges from about 5 hours to about 24 hours. In another example the reaction temperature ranges from about 60 C. to about 80 C. and the time for heating ranges from about 5 hours to about 24 hours. In yet another example the reaction temperature is about 55 C. and the reaction time ranges from about 5 hours to about 8 hours.

It is to be understood that the encapsulated nanoparticles formed by the embodiments examples of the method described herein in conjunction with the series are ionically charged. More specifically the polyurethane ionomer imparts localized charges on the surface of the nanoparticle cores . In a non limiting example the charged surface has an electric surface charge ranging from about 1 C cmto about 200 C cm. Although the examples discussed in form positively charged encapsulated nanoparticles it is to be understood that such embodiments examples may also be used to form negatively charged encapsulated nanoparticles . For instance such negatively charged particles may be formed using positively charged nanoparticle cores and polyurethane anionomers either NCO terminated see sequence of or acrylate terminated see sequence of .

It is further to be understood that the resultant encapsulated nanoparticles are formed from a liquid emulsion that after polymerization or crosslinking becomes a solid. Thus no part of the resultant encapsulated nanoparticles contains a liquid.

Furthermore the embodiments examples of the ionically charged encapsulated colorant nanoparticles may be used as a colorant in ink compositions for printing. In such cases the nanoparticles may be filtered e.g. screened through aluminum sieves to remove any undesirably large particles or any other undesirable remaining or unreacted emulsion components. The nanoparticles may then be incorporated into the formulation of the ink. In an example the ink composition includes an ink vehicle which itself is made up of one or more solvents perhaps one or more surfactants and water. In some instances the ink vehicle further includes additives such as e.g. biocides binders charge directors or the like. Although the nanoparticles promote dispersion stability when incorporated into the ink composition in some cases the ink vehicle includes an additional dispersant to facilitate long term stability of the ink. In an example the dispersant is present in the ink composition in an amount ranging from about 20 wt to about 100 wt based on the solid content of the nanoparticles . In an example the dispersant is present in an amount ranging from about 5 wt to about 10 wt of the total ink composition.

The ink composition further includes the ionically charged encapsulated nanoparticles as a colorant where such nanoparticles are dispersed in the ink vehicle. In an example the nanoparticles are present in an amount ranging from about 2 wt to about 6 wt of the total ink composition.

It is to be understood that the ranges provided herein include the stated range and any value or sub range within the stated range. For example an amount ranging from approximately 1 wt to about 20 wt should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited amount limits of 1 wt to about 20 wt but also to include individual amounts such as 2 wt 3 wt 4 wt etc. and sub ranges such as 5 wt to 15 wt 10 wt to 20 wt etc.

While several embodiments have been described in detail it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be modified. Therefore the foregoing description is to be considered exemplary rather than limiting.

