---

title: Interfacing a multimedia application being executed on a handset with an independent, connected computing device
abstract: Embodiments are directed to interfacing a multimedia application being executed on a handset with an independent computing device. A connection between the handset and the computing device is established, which triggers a proxy application to be launched on the computing device. The proxy application is configured to interact with an agent application that runs on the handset. The computing device receives one or more user inputs associated with the multimedia application, and one or more messages are sent from the proxy application to the agent application based on the user inputs. The handset modifies the execution of the multimedia application based in part on the one or more messages conveyed to the agent application from the handset, and the handset also sends media and/or signaling related to the multimedia application to the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122545&OS=09122545&RS=09122545
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09122545
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100217
---
Embodiments relate to interfacing a multimedia application configured for execution on a handset with an independent connected computing device.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventional docking stations for portable devices allow mobile device s to be connected to external workstation s . However conventional docking stations for portable devices typically export only basic device functions. For example data synchronization applications perform data synchronization but do not provide a real time user experience of the application on the mobile device. Further data card interfaces may allow the mobile device to be used by a workstation as a data modem but they do not provide access to the user interface layer applications on the mobile device. Voice over internet VoIP protocol phone switches can provide specific functional tie ins such as being able to initiate a phone call by clicking on a phone number. However VoIP phone switches merely exercise a specific function of the mobile device receiving a call and do not actually export the user experience from the mobile device.

Embodiments are directed to interfacing a multimedia application being executed on a handset with an independent computing device. A connection between the handset and the computing device is established which triggers a proxy application to be launched on the computing device. The proxy application is configured to interact with an agent application that runs on the handset. The computing device receives one or more user inputs associated with the multimedia application and one or more messages are sent from the proxy application to the agent application based on the user inputs. The handset modifies the execution of the multimedia application based in part on the one or more messages conveyed to the agent application from the handset and the handset also sends media and or signaling related to the multimedia application to the computing device.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server may send unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and may send multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

The workstation may include input output IO device which can be utilized to input and output data to computer . The computer can include any conventional computer architecture elements including ASICs other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device s and or memory devices that can be used to store data. The computer can perform computation upon any data types that may be input or output by the IO device or any data types being performed by the processors of computer . Further the workstation may also include a display portion which can be utilized to display data output by the computer . A graphical user interface GUI may be executed on the computer and may be displayed on the display portion . The GUI may provide the user a simulated version of the access terminal from the workstation via the connection . The GUI may allow the user to remotely control the access terminal from the workstation . Furthermore the IO device may provide expanded functionality that may not be provided by the access terminal due to the access terminal s limited size.

The workstation can be connected to the access terminal such that the two devices may be viewed as being synchronized with each other. However unlike conventional docking stations for portable devices which export only basic device functions the connection between the access terminal and the workstation can extend the docking station capability to include the entire user experience from the workstation . Therefore the workstation may provide a full environment to any applications that may reside on the access terminal and may not be limited to specific applications contained within the access terminal . In other words the workstation is not necessarily configured to supplant the access terminal s own applications with its superior processing resources but rather to function as an extended interface or peripheral through which a user of the access terminal can interact with the applications being executed thereon. Further the connection can allow the user experience of any applications residing on the access terminal to be exported to workstation . However even when the connection is being utilized between access terminal and workstation the applications that are being executed on the access terminal are not being directly executed by the workstation . Thus the workstation may provide access to the applications located on the access terminal but the workstation may not actually execute the applications located on the access terminal . Further the workstation may provide input data to the access terminal via the use of the IO device .

APIs may include a set of routines data structures object classes and or protocols provided by libraries and or operating system services in order to support the building of applications. The handset user interface may provide means of displaying the input and output provided to from the user. The handset user interface may display the commands utilized by the access terminal including for example images pictures videos games text messages video messages web browsing pages emails etc.

The proxy agent may provide a remote procedure call mechanism to the APIs handset UI and or OS . The mobile OS is an application development platform that may include Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW or any other similar environment e.g. Symbian Android PalmOS etc. . For example BREW is a software platform that can download and run small programs for playing games sending messages sharing photos etc. BREW can act between the application and the wireless device on chip operating system in order to allow programmers to develop applications without needing to code for system interface or understand wireless applications. The media IO module can be utilized to input and output data to the access terminal and can also interact with serial data interfaces including modems. The media IO module can include audio devices including headset jacks mouse devices keyboard devices and video devices.

The workstation may include proxy library proxy application and host UI . The workstation can be connected to the access terminal via connection and connection . Connection can be utilized to connect the proxy agent and the proxy library . Further connection can include a serial connection that may exchange signaling information e.g. instructions to execute applications exchanging information other than media that is associated with a communication session such as a calling party identifier etc. . Connection can be used to connect the media IO module and the proxy application in order to exchange multimedia data e.g. video audio etc. . As will be appreciated the connection is illustrated as a two way or bi directional connection because media input on the workstation e.g. via some type of enhanced input mechanism not available on the access terminal such as a mouse keyboard etc. can be related to the access terminal via the connection or alternatively media received at or generated at the access terminal can be relayed to the workstation to obtain some type of enhanced output. While illustrates the connection from as partitioned into two separate connections and it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed towards implementing the connection as a single bi directional connection configured to exchange both signaling and media between the workstation and access terminal .

The proxy library interfaces with the proxy agent via the connection . The proxy library can include data to perform procedural calls commands to the proxy agent and can also receive signaling messages from the proxy agent .

The proxy application includes translation module display module and media IO Module . The proxy application s general function is to be the workstation s terminal or point of access for interacting with the multimedia applications or APIs being executed on the access terminal .

The translation module can translate the format of commands recognized by the media IO module to the format recognized by proxy library and or proxy agent if different .

The display module can be utilized to display data output by the workstation including the host UI and any applications that are being run on the access terminal .

The media IO module may include audio devices including headset jack s mouse device s keyboard devices and video devices. The media IO module may provide expanded functionality that may not be provided by the access terminal due to the access terminal s limited size. For example the media IO module and the display module may display video in an enhanced HD format even though the access terminal can only display the media in a format with a lower resolution.

The Host UI may be executed on the workstation and may be displayed on the display module . The host UI may provide the user a simulated version of the access terminal from the workstation via the connections and

Accordingly the access terminal can be connected to the workstation via connection . Next the proxy agent application is launched on the access terminal . Afterwards the workstation can detect the connection with the access terminal . Subsequently the workstation can launch the proxy application . Next the workstation can display the host UI . In an alternative embodiment the launching of the proxy agent application in on the access terminal can be triggered after the launch of the proxy application in at the workstation . In this example the proxy application can send a signaling message over connection after launching the proxy application in and the access terminal can launch the proxy agent in upon receipt of the signaling message.

Afterwards the workstation can determine if input data has been received by the proxy application . If input data has been received by the workstation then the process proceeds to . If input data has not been received by the workstation then the process proceeds to .

Subsequently the workstation can translate the received input data to comply with the requirements of the proxy library . The received input data can be translated in order to account for any discrepancies in format between the received input data and the proxy library . Next the workstation can send the translated input data to the access terminal via the proxy library over the connection .

Afterwards the access terminal via the proxy agent can receive the translated input data from the workstation . Subsequently the access terminal can call the appropriate API s to handle input data at the access terminal . Further the access terminal can output any data to the host UI .

Accordingly the access terminal can be connected to the workstation via connection . Next the proxy agent application is launched on the access terminal . Alternatively the proxy agent application can be launched at the access terminal in upon receipt of a signaling message from the workstation after the launch of the proxy application in thereon. Afterwards the workstation can detect the connection with the access terminal .

Subsequently the workstation can detect the device type and can authenticate the device type . For example a user of the workstation and or access terminal can use a password or a certificate based mechanism to ensure appropriate access to the workstation or access terminal . Furthermore device type detection may also be utilized such that the proxy library and the proxy agent may be aware of the device model attached and or the device type attributes including display size color depth etc.

Next the workstation can launch the proxy application . Afterwards the workstation can display the host UI . Subsequently the access terminal can determine if input data has been received by the proxy agent . If input data has been received by the access terminal then the process proceeds to . If input data has not been received by the access terminal then the process proceeds to .

Next the access terminal can call the appropriate API s the API to handle input data at the access terminal . Afterwards the workstation can determine if input data has been received by the proxy application . If input data has been received by the workstation then the process proceeds to . If input data has not been received by the workstation then the process proceeds to .

Referring to the details of are illustrated. The workstation can translate the received input data to comply with the requirements of the proxy library . The received input data can be translated in order to account for any discrepancies in format between the received input data and the proxy library . Next the workstation can send the translated input data to the access terminal via the proxy library over the connection . The access terminal can receive the translated input data via the proxy agent from the workstation . Afterwards the access terminal can call the appropriate API s to handle input data at the access terminal . Afterwards the process can proceed to where the access terminal can output any data to the host UI .

Referring to again the access terminal can instruct the proxy agent to inform the workstation of the received data input . Next the access terminal can send input data or video update s to the workstation via the proxy agent . Afterwards the workstation can determine if input data is received from the proxy agent . If the workstation determines that input data has been received by the workstation then the process proceeds to . If the workstation determines that input data has not been received by the workstation then the process proceeds to . Next the workstation can update the host UI to reflect any changes previously made . At this point the process returns to and can repeat for a subsequent user input.

Display of workstation can display the host UI . Further the data displayed by display can be the same or different data as that shown in the handset UI . For example in this exemplary illustration host UI can display enhanced information when compared with the content displayed on the handset UI . Further host UI can display a call information button a function button and a media display button .

The call information button can provide details of the current previous call s . For example the call information button can include the current floorholder s the previous floorholder s the call duration s the call start time other call participants etc.

The function button can provide call functions of the access terminal . For example the function button can include make a call button terminate call button record call button request floor button and send web cam video button

The media display button can provide a display that allows the user of the workstation to view video s image s message s .

Accordingly the access terminal can be connected to the workstation via connection . Next the proxy agent application is launched on the access terminal . Alternatively the proxy agent application can be launched at the access terminal in upon receipt of a signaling message from the workstation after the launch of the proxy application in thereon e.g. by the proxy application or by the user via the proxy library by pressing the PTT button in . Afterwards the workstation and the access terminal can be connected . Subsequently the user of the workstation and or the access terminal can press the PTT soft key on the host UI .

Next the workstation can detect the PTT soft key push launch the proxy application and can translate the function s command s to comply with the function s command s contained within the proxy library . The received input data can be translated in order to account for any discrepancies in format between the received input data and the proxy library .

Afterwards the workstation can send the translated input data to the access terminal via the proxy library over the connection . Subsequently the access terminal can receive the translated input data via the proxy agent from the workstation . Next the access terminal can call or execute the appropriate API s to handle input data at the access terminal . Afterwards the access terminal can setup a PTT session . Subsequently the access terminal can determine if a PTT session can begin . If the access terminal determines that the PTT session can begin then the process proceeds to . If the access terminal determines that the PTT session cannot begin then the process returns to .

Next the access terminal can instruct the proxy agent to inform the workstation that the PTT session or video transfer can begin . Afterwards the access terminal can inform the workstation that the PTT session or video transfer can begin . Subsequently the access terminal can play a PTT tone to inform the user of the access terminal that the PTT session or video transfer has begun .

Next the workstation can play a PTT tone and or display a message on the host UI to inform the user of the workstation that the PTT session or video transfer has begun . Afterwards the workstation can capture any media desired .

Next the workstation can translate the captured media if necessary so the media can be viewed by the access terminal or any applications contained on the access terminal . Subsequently the workstation can forward any media to the access terminal . Afterwards the access terminal can transmit the captured media to the access network . At this point the process returns to and can repeat for a subsequent user input.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

