---

title: Apparatus and methods of selective collection and selective presentation of content
abstract: Disclosed are apparatus and methods operable to distribute targeted content. Additionally, disclosed are corresponding apparatus and methods operable to selectively choose and cache selected ones from among the distributed targeted content, and to further choose ones from among the cached content to present on a device. In some aspects, selective caching of content may be based upon a match between predetermined content attribute information and predetermined profile information. Further, in some aspects, an indicator is operable to trigger the selective inclusion of one or more of the cached content in a presentation of other content, which may be based on a match between a desired content attribute associated with the indicator and the respective predetermined content attribute information of the cached content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515336&OS=08515336&RS=08515336
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08515336
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100309
---
The present Application for Patent is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 614 863 entitled Apparatus and Methods of Selective Collection and Selective Presentation of Content filed Dec. 21 2006 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 756 746 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Delivery of Targeted Advertising on Mobile Devices filed Jan. 6 2006 Provisional Application No. 60 758 097 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Delivery of Targeted Advertising on Mobile Devices filed Jan. 10 2006 Provisional Application No. 60 789 446 entitled Apparatus and Methods of Receiving Content Based on User Preferences filed Apr. 4 2006 Provisional Application No. 60 809 138 entitled Targeted Advertisement Caching and Insertion in Mobile Broadcast Services filed May 25 2006 Utility application Ser. No. 11 566 145 entitled Target Advertisement in a Broadcast System filed Dec. 5 2006 and Provisional Application No. 60 834 978 entitled Advertising Insertion filed Aug. 1 2006 each assigned to the assignee hereof and each hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described aspects relate to content distribution systems and more particularly to apparatus and methods of selective collection and selective presentation of content.

One of the biggest problems in traditional media distribution systems such as broadcasting and pay television is the inability to profile consumers in order to provide media content tuned to individual preferences. For example such tuned content may include targeted advertising and direct marketing. The problem is two fold. In a traditional television environment which is normally tracked at the household level it is difficult if not impossible to identify the viewing habits of the actual individual watching the programming or transacting for example via interactive television with the platform in any way. This is because there are usually multiple viewers in each household and no way to tell who watches what programming. The second problem is that profiling in general is not well received by the public in most countries. Often it is outlawed to collect subscriber information without the consent of the subscriber.

Non traditional media distribution systems such as those that provide media content to computers and wireless devices also may experience some of these problems. For example in the realm of supplying media content to a wireless device the identification of the actual individual consuming the media content is less of an issue as a wireless device is typically used by only one person. The problem with respect to profiling however is pervasive and is very much an issue even with a computer and or a wireless device.

The described aspects include apparatus methods processors and computer readable media for effecting the distribution of targeted content and or for effecting the selective caching and the selective presentation of targeted content.

In one aspect a method of presenting content on a wireless device comprises obtaining a second content indicator associated with a primary content a secondary content attribute for each of a plurality of secondary content and a selection parameter associated with a user of the wireless device. The secondary content indicator comprises a secondary content timing relative to the primary content and further comprises a secondary content parameter. The method further includes storing selected secondary content from a one to many transmission of the plurality of secondary content based on a match between the selection parameter and a respective secondary content attribute. Further the method includes identifying with respect to the secondary content indicator one of the selected secondary content based on a match between the secondary content parameter and a respective secondary content attribute. Additionally the method includes presenting via an output device at the secondary content timing the identified one of the selected secondary content.

In yet another aspect a computer program product comprises a computer readable medium comprising a first set of codes for causing a computer to obtain a secondary content indicator associated with a primary content. The secondary content indicator comprises a secondary content timing relative to the primary content and further comprises a secondary content parameter. The computer readable medium further comprises a second set of codes for causing the computer to obtain a secondary content attribute for each of a plurality of secondary content. Also the computer readable medium comprises a third set of codes for causing the computer to obtain a selection parameter associated with a user of a wireless device. Further the computer readable medium comprises a fourth set of codes for causing the computer to store selected secondary content from a one to many transmission of the plurality of secondary content based on a match between the selection parameter and a respective secondary content attribute. The computer readable medium further comprises a fifth set of codes for causing the computer to identify with respect to the secondary content indicator one of the selected secondary content based on a match between the secondary content parameter and a respective secondary content attribute. Additionally the computer readable medium comprises a sixth set of codes for causing the computer to present via an output device at the secondary content timing the identified one of the selected secondary content.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for presenting content comprises means for obtaining a secondary content indicator associated with a primary content. The secondary content indicator comprises a secondary content timing relative to the primary content and further comprises a secondary content parameter. Further the apparatus comprises means for obtaining a secondary content attribute for each of a plurality of secondary content and means for obtaining a selection parameter associated with a user of the apparatus. Also the apparatus comprises means for storing selected secondary content from a one to many transmission of the plurality of secondary content based on a match between the selection parameter and a respective secondary content attribute. The apparatus further comprises means for identifying with respect to the secondary content indicator one of the selected secondary content based on a match between the secondary content parameter and a respective secondary content attribute. Additionally the apparatus comprises means for presenting at the secondary content timing the identified one of the selected secondary content.

In still another aspect a device for presenting content comprises a computer platform having a memory and a processor wherein the memory comprises a selection parameter. The device also includes a user interface in communication with the computer platform and a communications module in communication with the computer platform. The communications module is operable to obtain a secondary content indicator associated with a primary content a secondary content attribute for each of a plurality of secondary content and a one to many transmission of the plurality of secondary content. The secondary content indicator comprises a secondary content timing relative to the primary content and further comprises a secondary content parameter. Further the device comprises a content selector having selection logic operable to initiate storage in the memory of selected secondary content from the one to many transmission of the plurality of secondary content based on a first match between the selection parameter and a respective secondary content attribute. The selection logic is further operable to identify with respect to the secondary content indicator one of the selected secondary content based on a second match between the secondary content parameter and a respective secondary content attribute. Additionally the device comprises a media module having media management logic operable to initiate a presentation at the secondary content timing of the identified one of the selected secondary content on the user interface.

In another aspect a method of distributing targeted content comprises obtaining a secondary content indicator associated with a primary content wherein the secondary content indicator comprises a secondary content parameter. The method also comprises obtaining a plurality of secondary content and obtaining a plurality of secondary content attributes each associated with a respective one of the plurality of secondary content. Further the method comprises generating a one to many transmission including the secondary content indicator the plurality of secondary content attributes and the plurality of secondary content. Also the method comprises obtaining an identification of a selected one of the plurality of secondary content cached on a wireless device based on user preference data and further obtaining an identification of user interactivity with the wireless device associated with a presentation on the wireless device of the selected one. Additionally the method comprises adjusting based on the identification of the selected one and the identification of the user interactivity at least one of the secondary content parameter and a population of the plurality of secondary content included in the one to many transmission.

In yet another aspect a computer program product comprises a computer readable medium comprising a first set of codes for causing a computer to obtain a secondary content indicator associated with a primary content the secondary content indicator comprising a secondary content parameter. The computer readable medium further comprises a second set of codes for causing the computer to obtain a plurality of secondary content. Also the computer readable medium comprises a third set of codes for causing the computer to obtain a plurality of secondary content attributes each associated with a respective one of the plurality of secondary content. Further the computer readable medium comprises a fourth set of codes for causing the computer to generate a one to many transmission including the secondary content indicator the plurality of secondary content attributes and the plurality of secondary content. The computer readable medium also comprises a fifth set of codes for causing the computer to obtain an identification of a selected one of the plurality of secondary content cached on a wireless device based on user preference data and further for causing the computer to obtain an identification of user interactivity with the wireless device associated with a presentation on the wireless device of the selected one. Additionally computer readable medium comprises a sixth set of codes for causing the computer to adjust based on the identification of the selected one and the identification of the user interactivity at least one of the secondary content parameter and a population of the plurality of secondary content included in the one to many transmission.

In a further aspect an apparatus for distributing content comprises means for obtaining a secondary content indicator associated with a primary content wherein the secondary content indicator comprises a secondary content parameter. The apparatus also comprises means for obtaining a plurality of secondary content and means for obtaining a plurality of secondary content attributes each associated with a respective one of the plurality of secondary content. The apparatus further comprises means for generating a one to many transmission including the secondary content indicator the plurality of secondary content attributes and the plurality of secondary content. Further the apparatus comprises means for obtaining an identification of a selected one of the plurality of secondary content cached on a wireless device based on user preference data and further for obtaining an identification of user interactivity with the wireless device associated with a presentation on the wireless device of the selected one. Additionally the apparatus comprises means for adjusting based on the identification of the selected one and the identification of the user interactivity at least one of the secondary content parameter and a population of the plurality of secondary content included in the one to many transmission.

In other aspects an apparatus for distributing content comprises a computer platform having a memory and a processor. The memory comprises a secondary content indicator associated with a primary content a plurality of secondary content a plurality of secondary content attributes each associated with a respective one of the plurality of secondary content a distribution manager module having distribution management logic and a content manager module having content management logic. The secondary content indicator comprises a secondary content parameter. Further the apparatus comprises a transmitter operable to generate a one to many transmission by execution of the distribution management logic by the processor wherein the one to many transmission includes the secondary content indicator the plurality of secondary content attributes and the plurality of secondary content. Also the apparatus comprises a communications module in communication with the computer platform and operable to obtain from a wireless device an identification of a selected one of the plurality of secondary content cached on the wireless device based on user preference data. The communications module is further operable to obtain an identification of user interactivity with the wireless device associated with a presentation on the wireless device of the selected one. Additionally in the apparatus the processor is operable to execute the content management logic to adjust based on the identification of the selected one and the identification of the user interactivity at least one of the secondary content parameter and a population of the plurality of secondary content included in the one to many transmission.

The present apparatus and methods now will be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings. The apparatus and methods may be embodied in many different forms however and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein. Additionally throughout this description like numbers refer to like elements.

The described aspects relate to distributing targeted content to selectively choosing and caching selected ones from among the distributed targeted content and to further choosing ones from among the cached content to present on a device. While applying to any type of content in one example the described aspects may improve advertising effectiveness by delivering advertisements targeted to individual consumers of a broadcast multicast service. In some aspects the advertisements are in the form of files or clips. These clips may be cached on the consumer s wireless device. When the consumer is viewing a broadcast multicast channel and the network announces an opportunity to play advertising the wireless device selects from the cache an ad clip that best meets network specified targeting objectives and plays the selected advertising clip. Advertising clips may contain combinations of a wide variety of media types such as audio video still images text etc. any of which additionally may be animated.

Thus the following describes a plurality of aspects that encompass targeted advertisement caching and insertion in mobile broadcast services. These aspects apply to both real time e.g. broadcast streaming and non real time e.g. clipcast program content. The aspects may include for example a The advertisements themselves which are selectively downloadable to and or cached in wireless devices prior to an advertising insertion event which may be denoted by a secondary content indicator or cuing signal b Filters which are rule sets defined by a distribution system a service provider an advertiser etc. and which act upon various criteria to control customized advertisement storage as well as targeted insertion of advertisements. The filters may operate upon one or more of the following types of attributes Service Guide attributes such as a general description a genre and a rating for the main program attributes stored in the device in the form of user profiles attributes embedded within a secondary content indicator and or cuing protocol such as indicating dynamic and varying value of advertising slots which may be carried by a broadcast and or multicast transmission to a plurality of wireless devices thereby allowing dynamic updating of content caching and content selecting parameters attributes contained in the advertisements themselves and other attributes such as targeted user demographics user location time of day day of week etc. Attributes used in the filter rules may be static and or dynamic in nature and the filter rules themselves may be dynamic or static c Secondary content indicator and or Cuing signal which provides a means to signal an advertisement insertion event to the wireless device and which represents the overall timing structure of the primary content relative to the advertisement s . The secondary content indicator and or cuing signal may include one or more cue types such as an Event Pending cue which notifies the recipient of an upcoming advertisement insertion event an Event Notification cue which notifies the recipient of the start of an advertisement insertion event an Event Termination cue which notifies the recipient of the end of an advertisement insertion event and an Event Continuing cue which notifies the recipient of an advertisement insertion event in progress. A cue signal may be linked to an advertisement selection filter by a filter identifier which represents an alias for the filter and its associated rules. Thus in some aspects the secondary content indicator and or cue signal enables the synchronized switching between primary content and advertising content within a presentation.

Further the described aspects allow for a highly dynamic and flexible system where all rules filters attributes and any other cache selection criteria can be based on transmitted data received by a wireless device. Such a dynamic and flexible system allows for frequent refinement of the system in order to maximize the presentation on wireless devices of targeted content and associated user interaction along with revenues associated therewith.

Referring to in one aspect a system provides apparatus and methods for selective downloading and selective presentation of content on one or more wireless devices . System may include one or more content providers operable to provide one more pieces of content to distribution system such as via a first network . Distribution system is operable to deliver one or more pieces of content along with one or more content metadata associated with each piece of content to the one or more wireless devices . For example distribution system may include a transmitter and or the second network wherein transmitter is operable to generate a one to many transmission of content and or content metadata for delivery to one or more wireless devices via second network .

Upon accessing transmission each wireless device is operable to execute a content selector which is operable to determine selected ones of the one or more content in transmission to download to wireless device based on one or more selection parameters within a selection database . Selection parameters may include but are not limited to data such as one or more content filters one or more data representing user information in one or more data representing device information . Further in some aspects selection parameters may be unique to and or customized for each respective wireless device and or each respective user of each wireless device . As such in some aspects each wireless device may download a different set of one or more pieces of content within the same transmission . Thus in some aspects one or more selection parameters allow content selector to download selected content targeted to and or likely to be of interest to a respective user of the respective wireless device based on a match between one or more of the respective content metadata and one or more of the selection parameters .

Further for example in aspects where selected content comprises a real time or live content content selector may forward selected content to a media module for presentation via an output device . In other aspects for example where selected content comprises a non real time content content selector may forward selected content to be cached or saved in a content storage . In the non real time case media module is operable to access content storage at any time to retrieve and cause a presentation via output device of the saved selected content .

Output device in combination with media module is operable to generate selected content as a program or presentation for consumption by a user of wireless device . Each program or presentation may comprise a combination of one or more pieces of selected content . For example in some aspects selected content may comprise one or more pieces of primary content and one or more pieces of secondary content along with one more of the content metadata corresponding to primary content and secondary content . Further for example in some aspects one or more pieces of primary content of a respective program or presentation may include one or more secondary content indicators each of which define a secondary content space or timing relative to primary content for inclusion of one or more pieces of secondary content . Further in some aspects content indicator may include one or more secondary content parameters which may define required and or optional attributes of desired secondary content for use at each secondary content space or timing .

For example each secondary content indicator may provide for at least one of a a combination of one or more pieces of secondary content with primary content such that both the primary and secondary content are presented simultaneously b an insertion of one or more pieces of secondary content within primary content and or an addition to primary content of one or more pieces of secondary content such that the entire piece of primary content and the entire piece of each secondary content are presented within program or presentation and c a replacement of a portion of primary content with one or more pieces of secondary content where the replaced portion of primary content corresponds to secondary content space or timing .

Upon receiving each secondary content indicator media module communicates with content selector which is operable to determine which of the selected content should be included in the respective secondary content space or timing . For example content selector is operable to identify one or more of the selected content cached within content storage having one or more corresponding content metadata that match one or more secondary content parameters of the respective secondary content indicator . In some aspects content selector may base the match determination on rules or attributes of a predetermined content filter . Further in some aspects content selector may further utilize one or any combination of a predetermined portion of user information and a predetermined portion of device information in determining the match. In any case for each secondary content indicator content selector identifies one or more of selected content on each wireless device for retrieval by media module and generation by output mechanism that the respective space or timing of program or presentation . As such for each wireless device since each set of one or more selected content and each set of one or more selection parameters may differ the same secondary content indicator operated on by two different wireless devices may result in the inclusion of different secondary content with respect to the same primary content presented on each wireless device .

Additionally in some aspects wireless device may further include a tracking reporting module to monitor record and report on consumption of selected content as well as the state of corresponding device information and or user information. For example tracking reporting module may be operable to record user interactions with wireless device during program or presentation and in some aspects particularly during the presentation of secondary content . Tracking reporting module may be further operable to generate a report to provide such recorded data in detail in summary and or in any predetermined fashion for use by any entity associated with or interested in the activities of system .

Thus system provides each wireless device with apparatus and methods for independently choosing selected content from the one to many transmission of a plurality of content based on independently configured content caching functionality associated with each wireless device . Further system provides each wireless device with apparatus and methods for independently choosing secondary content from among its respective set of one or more selected content for inclusion with a program or presentation of primary content based on independently configured content insertion functionality associated with each wireless device . Additionally in some aspects system provides each wireless device with the ability to monitor and report on the consumption of selected content and the user interactions and or device information corresponding to the consumption. Further system provides a dynamic and flexible solution operable to maximize the download and presentation of targeted content by a wireless device.

Referring to content as used herein may comprise but is not limited to at least one of video audio multimedia content real time content non real time content also referred to as clips scripts programs or any other type of data or object operable to be distributed to and executed or presented by wireless device . For example content may include one or any combination of subscribed to programming ad hoc and or on demand received programming and or advertising or any other form of content added to inserted within and or presented simultaneously with or in place of other content. Additionally for example content may comprise but is not limited to a television show a video a movie a song interactive data such as World Wide Web pages and links etc. Further content may comprise a unique content identifier ID such as one or any combination of a letter a number a name a file name a file path etc. associated with the respective piece of content.

Additionally at least one of the plurality of content is associated with one or more content metadata . For instance one or more of the content suppliers associated with a respective one of the plurality of content may define the respective content metadata and associate the content metadata with the respective content. As used herein the term content supplier may include one or any combination of a content provider such as content provider a content retailer a billing and customer service provider and a media distributor such as distribution system . Content metadata comprises any data that describes and or is associated with each respective piece of content . For example content metadata may comprise but is not limited to one or any combination of content ID and one or more content attributes such as a category a name a content length a content type secondary content indicator secondary content parameter a code an identifier a theme a genre an intended audience and or market a script a content filter identifier a cuing protocol parameter a related audience and or market a primarily associated type of product and or service a secondarily associated type of product and or service a program level content description or theme describing a portion of the associated content a number of units or pieces of desired secondary content an order of presentation of one or more desired secondary content and or any metadata relating to the corresponding content. One or more content metadata may be separate from attached to or embedded within the respective content . In some aspects for example when content and content metadata are separate they each may comprise or point to the same content ID for example to enable the respective content metadata to be related to the respective piece of content.

Referring to in some aspects transmission may provide one or more channels or services of content and content metadata to each wireless device for consumption by a respective end user. In some aspects for example each transmission may comprise a one to many transmission in a Forward Link Only FLO system such as the MediaFLO system available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In such a system transmission comprises a flow or a logical stream within a multiplex which is a set of flows available in a given geographical area. Further each service or channel carried by transmission may comprise one or some combination of the plurality of content . In some aspects a service customized for a specific content retailer may be referred to as a channel. Thus transmission is able to deliver the same service or channel to a plurality of endpoints at the same time for a given content retailer while allowing different content retailers to customize services to provide channels of similar content but with a retailer specific look and feel.

Referring to in some aspects because the presentation of each service or channel carried by transmission may attract a large number of end users or consumers system may further include one or more advertisers in communication with distribution system . Advertiser comprises an entity desiring to present one more pieces of content typically secondary content in the form of one or more advertisements to selected end users . For example in this aspect primary content may comprise but is not limited to a television show a video a movie a song etc. Further for example secondary content may comprise but is not limited to an advertisement.

In some aspects referring to advertiser may interact with distribution system via an advertiser interface to attempt to obtain one or more secondary content spaces or timings within which to present one or more respective advertisements. For example advertiser may provide secondary content to distribution system or may have content provider deliver secondary content . Further advertiser may individually or in cooperation with distribution system operate to define a relationship between primary content and secondary content indicator as well as to define one or more secondary content parameters . As such advertiser may at least partially configure program or presentation so as to cause content selector to pick one or more pieces of secondary content for inclusion therein where the selected one or more pieces of secondary content have one more predetermined content metadata corresponding to attributes desired by advertiser . Further either individually or in combination with distribution system advertiser may define one or more selection parameters such as content filter to use with respect to each secondary content indicator so as to cause content selector to pick one or more pieces of secondary content having one more predetermined content metadata corresponding to attributes desired by advertiser . As such in some aspects advertiser may purchase a right to have predetermined content presented in a given secondary content space or timing . In other aspects however advertiser may provide content in the form of advertising to distribution system and may pay a fee based on the actual consumption of each respective advertisement as determined by each report from each tracking reporting module .

Referring back to first network and second network provide respective communication links between the various components and or entities of system . In some aspects first network and second network may comprise independent networks while in other aspects they may comprise inter related networks. Generally first network and second network each may comprise any one or any combination of one or more data networks and or one or more communications networks. For example in some aspects first network may comprise a public communications network such as the Internet and second network may comprise a subscription based one to many network such as a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network including the MediaFLO System available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. In other aspects first network and second network may include one or a combination of other networks such as a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network.

Further examples of telephone networks that may be included in some aspects of first network and or second network include one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to each wireless device of system is operable to access second network in order to receive transmission and or to communicate with distribution system .

Specifically referring to each wireless device may comprise a computer platform having a memory operable to store data logic and applications executable by a processor . A user may interact with wireless device and its resident applications via one or more user interfaces which may include one or more input devices and one or more output devices . Additionally wireless device may exchange communications with external devices and or networks via a communications module .

It should be noted that although wireless devices may be illustrated as cellular telephones any number and combination of types of wireless devices may be included in system . For example wireless device may include but is not limited to a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a laptop computer a two way pager a portable gaming device a portable music device or any type of computerized wireless device. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Computer platform is operable to transmit data across a network such as first network and or second network and is operable to receive and execute routines and applications and optionally display data generated within wireless device or received from any network device or other computer device connected to the network or connected to wireless device . Computer platform may be embodied in for example one or any combination of hardware firmware software data and executable instructions.

Memory may comprise one or any combination of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards flash memory cells an electronic file system and any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more of any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms.

Further processor may be one or more of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a chipset a processor a logic circuit and any other data processing device. In some aspects processor or other processor such as an ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs stored in memory of wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof which enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of wireless device on network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with distribution system and or other networked devices. In aspects in which the wireless device is defined as a cellular telephone for example processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services vocoder messaging graphics USB multimedia etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform that enable the functionality described herein. For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of content selector .

Further communications module may be embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof and is operable to enable communications among the various components of wireless device as well as between wireless device and first network and or second network . For example in cellular telephone aspects communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof including transmit and receive chain components for establishing a wireless communication connection.

Further for example communication module is operable to receive the plurality of content and the associated respective one or more content metadata if any from distribution system and forward them to content selector or provide content selector with access to them. Similarly for example communication module is operable to receive the one or more selection parameters and either forward them to content selector or provide content selector with access to them. Subsequently for example communications module is operable to forward selected content respectively to other device components for further processing.

Additionally one or more input devices for generating inputs into wireless device and one or more output devices for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless device. For example input device may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a navigation mechanism a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects input device provides an interface for receiving user input such as to activate or interact with an application or module on the wireless device. Further for example output device may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Further user interface may comprise one or any combination of input devices and or output devices .

Additionally referring to computer platform further includes content selector operable to extract and cache selected content likely to be of interest to the respective device user from transmission of the plurality of content and operable to retrieve and include chosen ones of selected content for generation in program or presentation . Content selector may be embodied for example in one or more of hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof Further content selector may comprise selection logic operable to manage perform and or initiate all or at least some portion of the selection related activities discussed herein. Additionally in some aspects content selector may comprise a client application and or a client agent associated with distribution system .

In particular selection logic such as algorithms rules fuzzy logic neural networks heuristic relationships decision making routines etc. may be operable to determine correspondence between a respective content metadata associated with one of the plurality of content and or associated with selected content and the respective corresponding one or more selection parameters and or secondary content parameters . In some aspects for example the correspondence between one or more content metadata and one or more selection parameters may comprise a likelihood and or percentage of a match where correspondence may be determined by achieving a predetermined threshold condition. Further in some aspects based on an identified correspondence selection logic may initiate the storage and or presentation of selected content such as based on a user input a secondary content indicator and or on the content type e.g. real time non real time and content for presentation within other content etc. which may be identified by the one or more content metadata and or secondary content parameters .

In some aspects content selector may include a cache function and an insertion function to respectively perform the selection related activities associated with choosing content for storage or for presentation. For example cache function is operable to access selection database to retrieve predetermined selection parameters and then is further operable to access transmission to identify and choose for caching selected ones of the plurality of content e.g. selected content according to guidelines defined by selection parameters . In particular cache function may include logic or any other type of decision making mechanism operable to filter selected content from plurality of content based on evaluating content via one or more corresponding content metadata in light of one or more content selection parameters . Thus cache function operates to extract selected content from transmission and cache selected content in content storage .

Further responsive to secondary content indicator insertion function is operable to access selection database to retrieve predetermined selection parameters and then is further operable to access content storage to identify and choose for inclusion with program or presentation chosen ones of selected content according to guidelines defined by selection parameters . In particular insertion function may include logic or any other type of decision making mechanism operable to filter chosen content from selected content based on evaluating selected content via one or more corresponding content metadata in light of one or more content selection parameters . Thus insertion function operates to extract chosen content from selected content and forward chosen content such as in the form of secondary content to media module and or output device for inclusion in program or presentation .

Referring to for example in some aspects content selector receives a request which may include request parameters from an application for content. For example the request for content may comprise secondary content indicator having secondary content parameters . Content selector references one or more selection parameters which may include i user information which may provide data on user preferences ii device information which may provide relevant device state data such as time of day and iii content filter which may be defined by one of secondary content parameters and which may provide rules for determining a match. For example secondary content parameters may include one or any combination of a content ID a category a name a content length a content type a code an identifier a theme a genre an intended audience and or market a related audience and or market a primarily associated type of product and or service a secondarily associated type of product and or service a program level content description or theme describing a portion of the associated content a script defining a content filter rule or attribute a number of units or pieces of desired secondary content an order of presentation of one or more desired secondary content and or any metadata relating to the corresponding content. Based on this information content selector is operable to evaluate content metadata and return one or more content IDs for matching content.

Referring back to as mentioned content selector interacts with one or more components of selection database having one or more selection parameters in order to identify and choose content. For example in some aspects content selector may utilize one or more selection parameters comprising one or more of a plurality of content filters which define rules and or attributes to control the customized storage and or display of selected content . Further for example in some aspects content selector may utilize one or more selection parameters comprising one or more portions of user information which includes data or profiles specifically related to one or more users of wireless device . Still further for example in some aspects content selector may utilize one or more selection parameters comprising one or more portions of device information which includes data or state information specifically related to wireless device . In other aspects content selector may utilize one or more selection parameters comprising any combination of content filter user information and device information .

Referring to each content filter may comprise a filter identifier ID that allows for the unique identification of the content filter. For example filter ID may include but is not limited to one or any combination of a name a number a letter a symbol a file name a path name etc. In some aspects associated with filter ID may be one or more filter rules and or one or more filter attributes both of which define the structure and behaviors of content and the inter relation between presented content such as for synchronizing their presentation. In other aspects the behaviors and or parameters associated with the respective content filter may be defined in one or more filter scripts which is a set of executable instructions that define the structure and behaviors of content and the inter relation between presented content such as for synchronizing their presentation. In yet other aspects content filter may comprise a combination of filter rules filter attributes and filter scripts . Each of the respective filter rules filter attributes and filter scripts may utilize parameters available in portions of user information and device information as well as from distribution system such as content metadata secondary content parameters and information available in a service guide that lists the channels services and the schedules of presentation of various content. For example content filter may utilize content related metadata such as user information related metadata and preferences such as and secondary content parameters such as target audience sci fi fan . Thus each content filter may compile a plurality of rules attributes and or scripts such as from any combination of the sources described above and is executable by content selector to match the respective content metadata associated with content and or selected content .

Further the components of each content filter may by dynamic and or static or some combination of both. Further one or more components of each content filter may offer guidance on the precedence of each filter rule and or filter attribute which may allow the various factors to be weighted to tune each content filter to achieve a desired matching result. Additionally the execution of each content filter by content selector may result in more than one piece of content that qualifies as a match. As such filter rules and or filter attributes may define mechanisms to choose between such matching content such as a first matching result or a best fit matching result based on relatively quantifying each match such as comparing matching factors.

In some aspects for example filter rules may be expressed in rule blocks or rules sets. For example content filter may have filter rules based on parameters found in user information as follows 

Additionally in some aspects each content filter may be associated with one of caching content for storage on wireless device or selecting content for inclusion with program or presentation . Referring to for example a content cache filter may include filter attributes to associate the filter with a targeted service provider and or with a targeted location such as a service provider identifier ID and location identifier ID . Both service provider ID and location ID allow for the unique identification of the content filter. For example each of IDs and may include but are not limited to one or any combination of a name a number a letter a symbol a file name a path name etc. Further content cache filter may include filter attributes relating to a targeted demographic such as based on a demographic profile and or demographic data such as gender age range and income range .

Referring to for example a content selection filter may include filter attributes such as a reference which may be a name by which the selected content will be referred and a duration which may define a length of the selected content such as in seconds. Further content selection filter may include filter rules such as selection criteria which are required characteristics of the selected content and matching parameters which are characteristics that the selected content should match as closely as possible. For example selection criteria may include a content owner identifier ID such as a name letter number code etc. identifying content provider or advertiser . Further for example selection criteria may include a content type such as the media type of the selected content e.g. audio video etc. Further matching parameters may include one or more of each of a match demographic profile a match demographic data a match day part which defines the targeted time of day and or week a match interest profile which targets user interests and a match location which defines a targeted location of the user such may be based on a geographic position or by location information derived from network components such as a network device associated with second network and or distribution system .

Referring to user information may comprise any data relating to a user of wireless device . Each wireless device may include one or more sets of user information where each set may correspond to a different user of wireless device . In some aspects for example user information comprises a user identifier ID such as a name letter number code etc. to uniquely identify the respective user information. Further user information may comprise one or more user demographic data which may be compiled into a representative user demographic profile . For example user demographic data may include but is not limited to data such as gender age income and other similar types of information that may be used to characterize a demographic into which the user may be classified. Additionally user information may include one or more user preference data which may be compiled into a user preference profile . User preference data may be data received from the user or may be derived from user interactions with wireless device . As will be discussed in more detail below a preference determination module in some instances in combination with tracking reporting module may be operable to generate and update user preference data and or user preference profile . User preference data may be descriptors that define interests of the respective user which may correspond to content metadata and or secondary content parameters .

Referring to device information may comprise any data relating to the specific wireless device . In some aspects for example device information comprises a device identifier ID such as a name letter number code etc. to uniquely identify the respective user information. For example device ID may include a mobile identification number MIN a serial number corresponding to a hardware and or software component resident on wireless device a version number corresponding to the hardware and or software component and any other data operable to identify wireless device . Further device information may comprise one or more subscription data which may provide subscriber information and authentication information corresponding to one or more distribution systems and or one or more channels or services . For example subscription data may comprise a removable identify module RUIM a subscriber identity module SIM a universal subscriber identity module USIM an Internet protocol identity services module ISIM a name an account number a key or another other data associating the user or the wireless device with a given channel and or service. Additionally device information may comprise one or more device state data which define a state relating to the respective wireless device and or a wireless device hardware or software component. For example device state data may include a time such as a time of day and or a time of week month year a location such as a geographic location based on information from a global positioning system GPS and or a network related location based on information from the network such as a base station or distribution system transmitter with which the wireless device is in communication or an assisted GPS system a status of an application executing on the wireless device a status of a hardware component on the wireless device a channel being watched a portion of an application being utilized or executing etc. In some aspects device state data may be received from one or more processing subsystems continuously at some predetermined interval or upon the occurrence of a predetermined event such as upon start up or upon a change in state.

Selection parameters within selection database may be dynamic and or static parameters. For example one or more selection parameters may be updated continuously at some predetermined interval or upon the occurrence of a predetermined event by one or a combination of preference determination module and tracking reporting module . Further transmission may be operable add change and or delete one or more selection parameters .

Referring to for example preference determination module includes preference determination logic operable to execute a profile generator to generate one or more user preference profiles having one or more user preference data . In some aspects user preference profile and or preference data may be generated for each user of wireless device . The respective user preference data define an aspect and or a description of content likely to be of interest to the respective user of wireless device . Thus one or more of the respective user preference data and or the respective user preference profile can be utilized to suggest or recommend new content and programming likely to be of interest to the user of the respective wireless device .

In some aspects for example profile generator may include generator logic operable to parse and or derive and or predict one or more of the respective user preference data based on for example the application of one or more predetermined preference rules to data received from the device user or received from another device component such as tracking reporting module processor processing subsystems etc. For instance in some aspects generator logic applies one or more preference rules to data within a preference survey which may comprise a questionnaire completed by the device user. For example preference survey may identify predetermined content preference categories among which a user may select categories of interest. The categories may include broad descriptive categories and one or more subcategories within each category and or within each subcategory. The selected predetermined content preference categories may then be stored as preference data . Alternatively for example preference survey may include predetermined targeted questions designed to elicit device user responses such as their likes and dislikes which may be used to determine user preference data and or user preference profile . For example such predetermined questions may include but are not limited to questions such as Do you like to go hiking camping Do you enjoy international travel and Do you play games on your PC or game console . In other alternatives preference survey may provide a user interface that gives the user the choice of identifying what types of things such as categories themes genres goods services etc. that they like.

Further in another example of another aspect generator logic applies one or more preference rules to collected consumption related information monitored and collected by tracking reporting module . For example collected consumption related information relates to what is executing on wireless device as well as user interactions with the wireless device. The one or more preference rules may include decision making routines heuristics algorithms formulas or any other mechanism operable to evaluate one or more user related or device related information to generate preference data and or preference profile . Thus preference determination module can therefore generate one or more preference data and or preference profile by parsing drawing conclusions from and otherwise analyzing received user or device based information.

Further in some aspects the self building properties of preference determination module in constructing user preference profile and or preference data provide a mechanism for quickly and accurately defining a new user preference profiles thereby allowing preference determination module to maintain accuracy of the generated data based on the most recent information.

Additionally the one or more predetermined preference rules may be configurable and updateable so as to allow easy management of preference determination on one or more devices. In some aspects one or more preference rules define a relationship between one or more selection parameters such as user information device information content consumption behaviors etc. and content metadata .

The following are simple functional examples of preference rules If a user watches American Chopper and Cops store and recommend any content programming associated with motorcycles and law enforcement. Also store and send advertising for all kinds of motor vehicles. and If a user watches content programming associated with Martha Stewart then store and recommend any content programming associated with cooking and home improvement. In these examples the terms American Chopper Cops motorcycles and law enforcement advertising motor vehicles Martha Stewart cooking and home improvement are examples of one or both of content metadata and content selection parameters . In any case in some aspects each preference rule attempts to correlate data that comprises one or more content metadata with the one or more content selection parameters .

Further the respective preference rule may provide an ad hoc definition of one or more selection parameters and or each selection parameter may correspond to a predetermined preference category that may be identified as part of the respective preference rule . For example in aspects where one or more preference categories are predetermined preference rule may analyze selection parameters and attempt to correlate this information with one or more of the predetermined categories. In this case for example the correspondence between selection parameters may comprise a likelihood and or percentage of a match to a given predetermined preference category where a correspondence may be determined by achieving a predetermined threshold condition e.g. if greater than 50 likelihood then associate user with this preference. As such each preference rule may include one or any combination of an algorithm a decision making routine fuzzy logic a heuristic relationship a neural network etc. operable to define and or predict relationships between user preference related information and preference data.

Further one or more predetermined preference rules and correspondingly the generated selection parameters may be associated with a content source such as a service and or channel and or a predetermined content metadata thereby allowing different preference decisions to be made depending on the source and or type of content. For example sources of content may supply widely varying types of content and some selection parameters may span the whole array of content sources and or types while other selection parameters may be source and or type specific.

In another example one or more predetermined preference rules and correspondingly the generated selection parameters may be associated with a geographic location which may be tracked as part of device information . In one aspect for example through interacting with device information and or a location determining portion of processing subsystems preference determination module may track locations and corresponding location identification information visited by wireless device . For example location identification information may include a business name a business type etc as well as additional information associated with the location such as an event name an event type etc. Further preference determination logic and or preference rules may be operable to generate user preference data based on a frequency and or trend associated with wireless device location. For example if the device user carrying wireless device visits a sports store more than once in a 30 day period then preference determination module is operable to add one or more sporting categories to the corresponding user preference profile . Similar preference data could be generated for visits to nightclubs sports stadiums concerts movies etc. not limited to merely the physical building or place but also including the event occurring in the place at the time the device was at the location.

In another aspect for example preference determination module may track user interactions with wireless device as a function of location. As such different preference rules may apply when wireless device is at a location designated as home as opposed to a location designated as work. In another example different preference rules may be enabled when wireless device is in the vicinity of a predetermined site such as a business a shopping mall an amusement park a historical site a government property an airport a bus or train station etc.

Further as previously noted preference profile and or preference data may be generated for each user of wireless device and because they are based on user specific and or device specific information they may vary from device to device and from user to user depending on user preferences.

Additionally in some aspects to address concerns regarding privacy and user profiling invasiveness the respective preference profile and or preference data may be generated automatically on wireless device within the profile generator without allowing any exposure of the respective preference profile and or preference data to any external party. In these aspects the respective preference profile and or preference data remains on wireless device such as in a non persistent memory and may be lost for example if the memory were erased if the memory losses power and or if the wireless device malfunctions. Further the respective preference profile and or preference data may be encrypted to provide further security. For example the respective preference profile and or preference data may be encrypted such that they only may be accessed by the corresponding content selector . Thus such secured and non persistent storage of the respective preference profile and or preference data increases the likelihood of a non invasive implementation of user profiling thereby addressing user privacy concerns.

Referring to in an example of one aspect preference determination module stores a list of scores for each user in a list of categories where the stored list of scores defines a profile state . Profile state may be forwarded to selection database as user preference profile for inclusion in user information and . For example user preference profile may include scores which may be weighted along a vector of interest categories. Further preference determination module may forward a list of download categories to content selector for use in selection of content to download to wireless device based on user preferences. For example the list of download categories may include but is not limited to one or more of content metadata content classes content identifiers etc. corresponding to the list of scores defining profile state of the respective user. The respective list of download categories may be identical to the respective user preference profile or the respective list of download categories may be some subset of user preference profile for example corresponding to areas of highest interest of the respective user. Profile generator is operable to generate profile state user preference profile and list of download categories based on one or more preference rules . For example profile generator may execute continuously periodically or upon the occurrence of a predetermined event to process accumulated inputs stored in database to update the scores in the list of scores defining profile state . For example the accumulated inputs may include but are not limited to information such as event data including user actions click throughs web searches start and stops of videos start and stops of other applications etc. which may be received from tracking reporting module device state data received from device information in selection database or as received directly from processing subsystems externally provided demographics such as age income gender occupation scores in interest categories etc. which may be received from user information and tracking report received from tracking reporting module which may provide information on the types of content to which the user responds which situations the user is receptive to consuming which types of content etc. As such database may include new inputs corresponding to data received since the last execution of profile generator and historical inputs comprising the accumulated inputs used in the past as inputs to profile generator . Additionally preference rules may include a time weighting function that allows older events stored as historical inputs to be weighted less than newer events stored as either new inputs or within historical inputs and eventually factored out of the determination. Further generator logic of profile generator may include a user detection algorithm operable to detect multiple people using the same device such as based on login information and or user behavior and thereby maintain separate profiles for each user.

Referring to in one aspect tracking reporting module may include a consumption data collector to monitor and collect consumption related information and a reporter to generate report based on collected consumption related information .

Consumption data collector may gather data resident anywhere on wireless device such as within processor and or processing subsystems within memory within any module or application etc. Consumption data collector may be embodied in one or more of hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof. In some aspects consumption data collector includes collection logic executable by processor to gather collected consumption related information based on one or more collection parameters and or one or more tracking rules . Collection parameters and or tracking rules may be associated with one or more preference rules of preference determination module and identify information resident on wireless device that may be relevant to a determination of a device user content preference based on user interactions with wireless device . The one or more collection parameters and or tracking rules may be established by a party such as a content retailer a service provider content provider distributions system and or advertiser in control of providing content selector to wireless devices or any party interested in providing individually relevant content to content consuming devices. Alternatively in some aspects a device user may be able to control which device related parameters are monitored for tuning the selectivity of the resident content selector . Further for example one or more collection parameters and or tracking rules may identify content consuming behavior occurring on wireless device to monitor and collect including what content was consumed how the content was consumed when the content was consumed how long was the time period of the consumption and corresponding device state information and or related user interactions.

For example with regard to monitoring and collecting information relating to what content has been consumed collection parameters may cause the logging of data such as a content name or content identifier ID a content type and or description such as may be defined by one or more content metadata etc.

With regard to how the content was consumed for example one or more collection parameters may cause the logging of data such as a hardware component a software module and or application utilized to access and or consume the content. Further these parameters may cause the logging of any user interaction that caused the content to be consumed such as clicking on a pop up ad occurring in the middle of the consumption of another piece of content. For example hardware components include keys and keyboards displays audio speakers or microphones computer chips etc. while software modules applications include the software executing to access manage and or present the content or to perform other functions occurring on the device during or adjacent to the presentation of the content.

Further for example with regard to when and how long the content was consumed one or more collection parameters may cause the logging of timestamp information including hour minute second day and or date information corresponding to the initiation and end of any content consumption or the use of any other application during or adjacent to the consumption of the content. Alternately this information may be gathered from other applications and or subsystems that already track information relating to the time and duration of content consumption and or application usage.

Additionally for example with regard to the device state information one or more collection parameters may cause the logging of predetermined or general activity on the wireless device corresponding to preceding and or following the consumption of content. For example in order to make a preference determination it may be relevant to know what non content consumption related activities are occurring on the wireless device in and or around the time of the content consuming activities as these non content consuming activities may have an affect on content consumption behavior. Such information may be available as device state data which may include any information available on wireless device including processing subsystems . For example besides the status of running components on wireless device device state data may include position location information which may be correlated to geographical landmarks and or location based events such as a sporting event occurring at a stadium on a given day and time.

In some aspects reporter comprises reporter logic operable to obtain collected consumption information and generate report based on applying report rules which define the content and structure of report .

Referring to in an example of one aspect tracking reporting module comprises a database that accumulates data on various events device state data and user actions associated with the consumption of content on wireless device . For example in this case events may include but are not limited to actions such as presentations of content etc. For example in this case device state data may include but is not limited to time of day channel being viewed location etc. For example in this case user actions may include but are not limited to actions such as user clicks on universal resource locators URLs channel changes volume adjustments etc. Such data may be stored as new inputs in database where there also may reside historical inputs from prior tracking and monitoring. Consumption data collector processes these accumulated inputs according to tracking rules to generate collected consumption related information . Reporter obtains collected consumption related information and processes it according to report rules which in some aspects may include a privacy policy . Privacy policy may comprise one or more rules to determine which data may be private data and which data may be public data. Further for example privacy policy may include one or more predetermined private data identifiers and or predetermined public data identifiers which identify respective private data and or public data within report . For example private data may include a device user name a device user address an identifier associated with device user or with the wireless device and any other data that has been determined would reveal an identity of the device user and or the device. Further for example public data may comprise general information used to characterize the device user and or the device such as demographic data consumption behaviors device make and model and any other non invasive information relating to device user and or wireless device. As a result reporter is operable to generate one or both of an internal tracking report and an external tracking report detailing and or summarizing the tracked behavior. For example internal tracking report may contain detailed information with respect to a specific user while external tracking report may contain more general information based on the removal of device specific and or user specific information based on privacy policy . Thus internal tracking report may include private data while external tracking report may exclude predetermined private data and or only include predetermined public data.

Referring back to content storage is operable to store or cache any content selected by content selector . Content storage may be any type of memory capable of saving selected content and capable to being accessed for the retrieval of one or more of selected content . For example in some aspects content storage may comprise an electronic file system which may include a plurality of storage locations such as folders arranged by content type e.g. applications music video cache etc. where the respective content may be stored.

Additionally referring to computer platform further includes media module operable to manage and present selected content . For example media module may be embodied in one or more of hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof Further for example media module may comprise a client application and or a client agent associated with distribution system .

In some aspects media module may include media management logic operable to generate one or more of the plurality of media menus suitable for interfacing with a device user to manage selected content including generating the presentation of and or storing selected content on wireless device .

For example referring to media management logic may generate a personalized content list menu such as on a display type user interface that presents the device user with the one or more selected content . For example in some aspects personalized content list menu lists selected content associated with a respective channel or service or and or while in other aspects the list may include selected content from more than one channel or from all channels. Personalized content list menu comprises a personalized or user preferred list of content based on the wireless device based matching activity as described above with regard to content selector .

For instance upon initialization of media module media management logic may automatically or in response to a device user input received by input device obtain personalized content list menu from the plurality of media menus and present it to the device user. In some aspects for example media management logic is operable to locate selected content and parse predetermined information such as a content identifier ID and or content metadata such as a name or subject matter associated with the selected content and present this information to the device user. In some aspects it may be desirable for content metadata to comprise content ID or vice versa while in other aspects it may be desirable for content metadata and content ID to be mutually exclusive. As such a user may utilize one or more input devices to provide a selection indicator such as a highlight a checkmark etc. to indicate the selection of one or more of the listed content.

Further for example media management logic may include selectable functions such as Select virtual button to initialize the execution and presentation of the indicated selection s such as via output device . Additionally the selectable functions may further include an Options virtual button to access other menus such as a help menu a content management menu for deleting content and or adjusting settings such as a number of content and or an amount of memory to utilize to save content a predetermined amount of time to store content etc.

Referring back to in other aspects media management logic may be operable to retain selected content in or retrieve selected content from content storage which may provide long term and or short term storage for any selected content . For example long term storage may be desired for selected content that the device user desires to retain or desires to execute in the future while short term storage may include memory space associated with executing content as well as any other short term storage.

Content storage may comprise one or any combination of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM electronically programmable ROM EPROM electronically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or flash memory cells an electronic file system EFS and any memory common to computer platforms. Further content storage may include one or more of any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms. Further as mentioned above media management logic may manage any storage parameters such as a number of files a memory limit etc. associated with content storage .

Thus as noted previously through the operations of content selector wireless device is operable to cache and present selected content to a device user where in some aspects selected content is targeted to the interests and or preferences of the respective device user.

Referring to in an example of one aspect content selector is operable to cause an insertion of one or more pieces of secondary content within primary content such that the combination of both primary content and secondary content are presented within program or presentation . For example this aspect may include inserting an advertisement within or adding it to the presentation of another piece of content such as a video presentation. In another example one piece of content may be overlayed on top of another piece of content. In this example secondary content indicator or some other cueing mechanism may define space or timing within primary content within which secondary content is to be inserted. In this aspect primary content may be divided into a first portion a second portion and a third portion and secondary content is inserted between first portion and second portion . Thus program or presentation comprises a continuous presentation of the combination of primary content and secondary content . Additionally it should be noted that this aspect may further include the addition of one or more pieces of secondary content to the beginning or end of primary content .

Further secondary content indicator or some other cueing mechanism may provide such as via secondary content parameters cueing notifications relating to the availability of space or timing and the presentation of secondary content . For example cueing mechanisms may include an event notification cue that announce the initiation of a presentation of secondary content . Similarly for example cueing mechanisms may include an event termination cue that announces the termination of a presentation of secondary content . Further for example cueing mechanisms may include an event pending cue that announces an upcoming presentation of secondary content . A plurality of redundant event pending cues may be issued for example at predetermined intervals prior to the upcoming presentation to provide notice of the upcoming presentation. For example redundant event pending cues may include information on the time remaining before the presentation of secondary content . Additionally for example cueing mechanisms may include an event continuing cue that announces an ongoing presentation of secondary content e.g. a notice that the respective event is in progress. A plurality of redundant event continuing cues may be issued for example at predetermined intervals during the presentation to provide notice of progress. For example redundant event continuing cues may include information on the time remaining for the presentation of secondary content .

Referring to in an example of another aspect content selector is operable to cause a replacement of a portion of primary content with one or more pieces of secondary content where the replaced portion of primary content corresponds to secondary content space or timing . For example this aspect may include replacing space having a national or wide area based advertisement with a local advertisement. In this aspect primary content may be divided into a first portion a second portion and a third portion and secondary content is inserted between first portion and third portion in the place of second portion . Thus program or presentation comprises a continuous presentation of the combination of primary content minus second portion and secondary content which replaces second portion .

Referring to in an example of yet another aspect content selector is operable to cause a combination of one or more pieces of secondary content with primary content such that both the primary and secondary content are presented simultaneously. For example this aspect may include combining the presentation of audio music on a speaker with title and artist information on a display or combining title and artist information on a first portion of a display with advertising information on a second portion of the display. In this aspect primary content may be divided into a first portion a second portion and a third portion and secondary content added to primary content such that second portion and secondary content are presented simultaneously. In another aspect one piece of content may be overlayed on top of another piece of content. Thus program or presentation comprises a continuous presentation of primary content with the simultaneous presentation of both primary content and secondary content during spacing or timing .

Therefore referring to each wireless device of system is operable to selectively download and selectively present selected content chosen from a plurality of content in transmission from distribution system .

Referring to in some aspects distribution system may comprise one or any combination of any type of hardware software firmware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer and generally any special purpose and or general purpose computing device. Further there can be separate servers or computer devices and or networks associated with distribution system that work in concert to receive manipulate and provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between devices and networks and distribution system .

Distribution system may comprise a computer platform comprising one or a plurality of resident and or distributed computer platforms that can receive and transmit data receive and execute software applications and generate and or display data and or content. For example computer platform may be embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof.

Computer platform may be associated with an input mechanism for generating inputs into distribution system and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by a local and or remote operator of distribution system . For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display voice recognition module etc. Further for example output mechanism may be a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Additionally input mechanism may be a remote device such as a remote computer dumb terminal and or workstation which has access to distribution system . In some aspects for example input mechanism and or output mechanism may be utilized by one or more operators to manage one or more of the receipt and description of content received from content providers the establishment maintenance and deletion of channels tiers and packages associated with one or more content retailers and or billing and customer service providers the establishment maintenance and deletion of subscription and billing information and the distribution of content through media flows.

Further computer platform may include one or more data repositories and or memories which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms. In several aspects for example memory includes one or more content servers.

Further computer platform also includes a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device for carrying out executable instructions.

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in one or more of hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof that enables wired and wireless communications among the various components of distribution system and between distribution system and first network second network and wireless devices . For example communications module may include a transceiver module for wireless communications with wireless devices and or first network and second network .

Further computer platform may include one or more subscription billing manager modules which operate to manage all of the media content subscription and billing functions associated with distribution system . For example subscription billing manager module may be embodied in one or more of hardware processors software firmware data and or other set of executable instructions. Further in some aspects subscription billing manager module includes subscription billing management logic that provides distribution system with the capability to receive store and manipulate subscription and billing information . For example subscription billing information may include subscriber device user identity address and payment related information corresponding wireless device identifier information subscriber account information package tier and channel information etc. Further subscription billing management logic may be operable to receive process and transmit subscription related information such as subscription requests the corresponding approvals or denials and the management of digital rights based on an approved subscription request for a channel tier or package of content.

Additionally computer platform may include one or more distribution manager modules which operate to manage all of the media content distribution functions associated with distribution system . For example distribution manager module may be embodied in one or more of hardware processors software firmware data and or other set of executable instructions. Further in some aspects distribution manager module includes distribution management logic that provides distribution system with the capability to receive store and manipulate distribution information and control the distribution of content. For example distribution information may include information and or relative associations between distribution related information such as one or a combination of parameters of the MediaFLO system including flows flow regions networks content channels services tiers packages content suppliers etc. Further distribution management logic may be operable to receive and process content and content related information as well as content retailer specific information such as customization information auxiliary services auxiliary presentations channel information tier information and package information. Additionally distribution management logic may be operable to initiate transmission such as via a one to many or a multicast mechanism. For example a multicast mechanism may comprise all or some portion of a multicast system such as the Forward Link Only FLO network of the MediaFLO system.

Additionally computer platform may include one or more content channel manager modules which is operate to manage operations relating to the content received and the channels services distributed by distribution system . For example content channel manager module may be embodied in one or more of hardware processors software firmware data and or other set of executable instructions. Further in some aspects content channel manager module includes content channel management logic that provides distribution system with the capability to receive store and manipulate the plurality of content and the respective services and or channels and as well as the associated content related information such as content metadata content IDs and the associated channel service information such as the associated content tier and package information.

In some aspects for example content channel management logic is operable to generate one or more of a plurality of content and channel service menus suitable for interfacing with a user of distribution system to carry out various content and channel service management functions such as channel service definitions description definition activities and content descriptor activities etc.

For example referring to content channel management logic may generate a metadata definition menu such as on a display type user interface which allows the user to define one or more predetermined metadata such as content categories genres themes etc. For example upon user command content channel management logic may retrieve metadata definition menu from the plurality of content and channel service menus and present it to the user. The user may utilize one or more input devices to create a list of predetermined metadata which may then be used to describe any content. For example a user may individually define a description by typing in a name a description a category code which may be referenced to a database of potential descriptions and or selecting from a list of potential descriptions obtained from a content description database. Further for example metadata definition menu may include selectable functions such as Save virtual button to save the listed descriptors and or an Options virtual button to access an alternate one of the plurality of content and channel service menus such as a help menu and or a menu to enter or define a new descriptor edit or delete an existing descriptor etc. As such the list of available predetermined metadata can be created and or modified and saved. In some aspects one or more predetermined content metadata may be associated with one or more respective and such that the predetermined content metadata is service channel and or service provider specific. Thus in some aspects user interaction with metadata definition menu results in the generation of one or more available predetermined metadata which may then be used to define one or more of the plurality of content .

Correspondingly referring to in some aspects content channel management logic is operable to allow a user to describe a given one of the plurality of content by associating the content with one or more predetermined metadata . Content channel management logic may generate a content description menu which enables the user to select from the list of available predetermined metadata to associate with a given content ID or content as the one or more respective content metadata . In some aspects if an appropriate metadata is not available on content description menu then content channel management logic is operable to allow a user to personally define one or more metadata such as by taking the user to metadata definition menu . Further for example content description menu may be presented to a user of distribution system on a display type user interface associated with input mechanism and or output mechanism . Additionally in some aspects content channel management logic is operable based on an identified channel and or service and to populate the list of available predetermined metadata with the previously defined metadata associated with the given channel or service as discussed above.

For example upon receiving a given one of the plurality of content content channel management logic may automatically retrieve content description menu from the plurality of content and channel service menus and present it to the user. Alternately menu may be retrieved based on received user inputs. In yet another alternative menu may be utilized by a content provider to associate content metadata with a given content prior to receipt of content by distribution system . In any case a user may utilize one or more input mechanisms to provide a selection indicator such as a highlight a checkmark etc. to indicate the selection of one or more predetermined content categories thereby defining one or more content metadata for association with the given content .

Alternatively or in addition for example a user may individually define one or more content metadata in menu by typing in a name a description etc. These non standard metadata may be in combination with the selected predetermined metadata defined as the content metadata for a given one of the plurality of content . Further in some aspects content channel management logic may include algorithms decision making routines fuzzy logic heuristic relationships neural networks etc. which may be operable to associate non standard content descriptors with one or more predetermined content descriptors and store this relationship as the content descriptor.

Further for example content description menu may include selectable functions such as Save virtual button to save the selected content categories as content metadata and or an Options virtual button to access an alternate one of the plurality of content and channel service menus . For example selection of Options virtual button may provide access to a help menu and or a menu to retrieve information that describes what types of features content should have to be considered for a respective descriptor etc. As such one or more content metadata can created and or modified and saved for respective ones of the plurality of content as may be identified by content ID . Thus in some aspects user interaction with content description menu results in the generation of one or more content metadata for one or more of the plurality of content .

It should be noted that functionality of defining metadata and associating the metadata with one or more of the plurality of content may occur on any device associated with distribution system . For example content provider may perform this function.

Referring to in an example of one aspect one or more content providers may include an aggregator operable to define metadata and operable to associate the plurality of content with one or more metadata . For example aggregator receive the plurality of content from external sources and tags each with one of a predetermined plurality of metadata which may comprise a labeling of the class or category of the content. Further for example aggregator may aggregate multiple pieces of the plurality of content into groups having similar class or category. As such aggregator defines content and corresponding content metadata . Aggregator is then operable to forward content and corresponding content metadata to distribution manager module of distribution system . Distribution manager module may further obtain a download list which defines a list of classes or categories from for example user preference profile and or from outside sources that wish to subscribe to file system updates. Download list is used to initiate file downloads of classes of interest e.g. transmission of plurality of content and associated metadata . The downloaded files information is then published to content storage such as in an electronic file system where each file may include a file name and a path name. Electronic file system includes the ability to remotely move copy delete and otherwise manage each file in the file system. For example such a file system update mechanism may be used to put advertisements ads in an ad cache add content to a web browser cache download popular videos or music clips which may be performed proactively or for promotion and or to deliver software updates to the respective wireless device.

Therefore referring back to distribution system is operable to generate a one to many transmission which may be a multicast transmission to one or more wireless devices participating in system . Further as noted previously content selector is operable to choose selected content from transmission for downloading and is further operable identify ones of selected content for inclusion with program or presentation .

In some aspects transmission may include a cuing protocol that is operable to alert each wireless device to signal a content caching and or content insertion event and or to associate metadata with content or a segment of content. For example cuing protocol may define one or more aspects relating to the downloading and or presentation of content on wireless device .

Referring to in an example of one aspect a cuing protocol payload may comprise a data object having a predetermined size such as a bit size and having a predetermined payload structure . For example in this aspect cuing protocol payload may include a number of fields where each field may have a predetermined or variable length the fields including a number of filter identifiers IDs field which indicates the number of filter identifiers contained on the payload one or more reserved fields which may be reserved based on the protocol a filter f indicator field which indicates whether or not Other Metadata and Script is included in the payload such as by setting to 0 for not included or to 1 for included a blanking indicator field for example which may be set to 0 for no blanking on the primary content or to 1 for blanking on or preventing presentation of the primary content an event type field which may have an extendable length that identifies for example that the event comprises a real time advertisement or a non real time advertisement and that can be extended to be used for black outs e.g. to override the primary content with some other content based on targeting information a cue type field that identifies the type of cue e.g. an event pending an event notification an event continuing an event terminating etc. a version ver number field that identifies the version of the cuing protocol in use a timestamp frame number field which provides a measurement point associated with the primary content for the event e.g. to synchronize the timing a predetermined length duration field which provides the duration of the event where the duration is the time remaining before the completion of the event in timestamp units a list of filter IDs field which lists the filter identities for use with the event and an Other Filter Metadata and Script field which contains other metadata attributes parameters script etc. for use by content selector where synchronized multimedia integration language SMIL may be used for metadata plus script.

Referring to in another example a cuing protocol payload may comprise a data object having a predetermined size such as a bit size and having a predetermined payload structure . For example in this aspect cuing protocol payload may include an 8 bit sequence number field that identifies relative position of payload with respect to other payloads a 2 bit version ver number field that identifies the version of the cuing protocol in use a 2 bit cue type field that identifies the type of cue e.g. an event pending an event notification event continuing etc. a 2 bit event type field that identifies for example that the event comprises a real time advertisement or a non real time advertisement a 1 bit blanking indicator field for example which may be set to 0 for no blanking on the primary content or to 1 for blanking on the primary content one or more variable length reserved fields which may be reserved based on the protocol an 8 bit number of filter identifiers IDs field which indicates the number of filter identifiers contained on the payload a 32 bit timestamp frame number field which provides a measurement point associated with the primary content for the event e.g. to synchronize the timing a 16 bit duration field which provides the duration of the event where the duration is the time remaining before the completion of the event in timestamp units a variable length filter ID field which lists the filter identities for use with the event where each filter identity comprises an 8 bit field a length of other filter metadata and script field which defines the length of the other filter metadata and script and a variable length other filter metadata and script field which contains other metadata attributes parameters script etc. for use by content selector where synchronized multimedia integration language SMIL may be used for metadata plus script.

Further for example cuing protocol may be transported in transmission within a cuing protocol stack. In some aspects cuing protocol stack may varying depending on whether the cue is for real time content or non real time content in other aspects cuing protocol stack may be the same in both cases.

For example referring to portions of various cuing protocol stacks include a network layer such as based on the Internet Protocol IP a transport layer such as based on the User Datagram Protocol UDP and the cuing protocol being carried in an application layer .

Referring to for example cuing protocol stack may be the same for real time and non real time content and payload portions of cuing protocol may be defined in other protocol or applications such as Real Time Transport Protocol RTP and or the file delivery over unidirectional transport built on top of asynchronous layered coding FLUTE ALC file transfer application . For example for the distribution of real time content cue packets may be embedded within the RTP stream either in band with media packets or in a separate RTP stream. Further for example for non real time content cue packets may be carried by FLUTE ALC.

Referring to in another aspect cuing protocol stack may be utilized for real time content and cuing protocol stack may be used for non real time content. In cuing protocol stack RTP may include predetermined payload types defined for media or content packets and separate predetermined payload types defined for cue packets. As such RTP may carry some of the payload of cuing protocol . In cuing protocol stack cuing protocol may defined in synchronized multimedia integration language SMIL using FLUTE ALC .

Referring to in another aspect cuing protocol stack may be utilized for real time content and cuing protocol stack may be used for non real time content. In cuing protocol stack RTP may carry some of the payload of cuing protocol . In cuing protocol stack cuing protocol may be the same as in the real time case and may be carried using FLUTE ALC .

Referring to in another aspect cuing protocol stack may be utilized for real time content and cuing protocol stack may be used for non real time content. In cuing protocol stack RTP may carry some of the payload of cuing protocol . In cuing protocol stack cuing protocol may be defined in SMIL and carried using FLUTE ALC .

Referring to in another aspect cuing protocol stack may be utilized for real time content and cuing protocol stack may be used for non real time content where the same cuing protocol may be used in both cases. In cuing protocol stack RTP may carry some of the payload of cuing protocol . In cuing protocol stack SMIL may include portions of cuing protocol and both SMIL and cuing protocol may be carried using FLUTE ALC .

Referring to in another aspect cuing protocol stack may be utilized for both real time content and non real time content. RTP may carry some of the payload of the real time content protocol while some of the non real time protocol payload may be defined in SMIL and carried using FLUTE ALC .

In operation referring to one aspect of a method of presenting content on a wireless device comprises obtaining a primary content Block . For example referring to wireless device receives transmission of a plurality of content from distribution system . Content selector is operable to choose selected content from among the plurality of content in transmission . At least one of selected content may comprise primary content .

The method further includes obtaining a secondary content indicator associated with the primary content including a secondary content timing and a secondary content parameter Block . For example referring to wireless device may obtain the secondary content indicator from transmission . Secondary content indicator may be defined in each piece of content or within the corresponding content metadata or within a cuing protocol carried by transmission . Further the secondary content timing and the secondary content parameter may be defined by one or more secondary content parameters or by cuing protocol .

Further the method includes obtaining a secondary content attribute for each of a plurality of secondary content Block . For example referring to wireless device may obtain the plurality of content metadata corresponding to the plurality of content from transmission .

The method also includes obtaining a selection parameter Block . For example referring to wireless device may obtain one or more selection parameters such as content filter user information and device information .

Additionally the method includes obtaining a one to many transmission of the plurality of secondary content Block . For example referring to wireless device obtains transmission which may carry the plurality of content including secondary content . In some aspects wireless device is authorized to receive transmission based on subscription data which may be defined in device information . Additionally in some aspects the one to many transmission may comprise a multicast transmission.

The method further includes storing selected secondary content from the one to many transmission based on a match between the selection parameter and a respective secondary content attribute Block . For example referring to wireless device is operable to execute content selector to choose selected ones from the plurality of content in transmission based on a match between one or more selection parameters and a respective content attribute defined by content metadata corresponding to the selected content. In some aspects for example selection parameter may be content filter which can be defined by transmission and or which may be set by a user of the device or set based on user interactions with the device e.g. based on behavior. In some aspects for example selection parameter may be user information that includes a user preference profile and or user preference data thereby allowing content selector to download content likely to be of interest to the device user based on a comparison with respective content attributes. In some aspects for example selection parameter may be device information which may be a subscription or a hardware or software state.

Additionally the method includes identifying with respect to the secondary content indicator one of the selected secondary content based on a match between the secondary content parameter and a respective secondary content attribute Block . For example referring to wireless device is operable to execute content selector based on receiving a secondary content indicator and or cuing protocol . In this case content selector is operable to obtain secondary content parameter and determine a match with content metadata of selected content cached in content storage . The matching content metadata is associated with and therefore identifies one of the selected content . The so called match may be based on a matching threshold a weighting assigned to quantity the amount of a match etc. Further content selector may select the matching content based on a best match or highest quantifiable match a first match and or any other predetermined matching scheme.

Further the method includes presenting via an output device at the secondary content timing the identified one of the selected secondary content Block . For example referring to media module is operable to receive the identified one of selected content and forward it to output device for inclusion in the program or presentation based on secondary content parameters and or cuing protocol .

The method also may include tracking activity associated with the presentation of the selected secondary content Block . For example referring to wireless device may execute tracking reporting module to monitor and record the state of the predetermined device hardware and software including capturing device user interaction with the device associated with presentation that includes secondary content .

Additionally the method may include generating a report based on the tracked activity Block . For example referring to tracking reporting module may be operable to generate a report providing in detail or in summary fashion information relating to the monitored and tracked activities occurring in associated with the presentation of secondary content . Such a report may be subject to a privacy policy to remove predetermined information deemed to be private thus maintaining a non invasive aspect of system .

It should be noted that some portion or all of the above defined actions may be performed on wireless device of system . For example in one aspect all of the above actions are performed on wireless device . In another aspect for example the actions associated with identifying and downloading selected content may performed external to wireless device while the actions of choosing from amongst selected content to identify secondary content for inclusion in a presentation of primary content may be performed on wireless device .

In another aspect referring to one example of a method of distributing targeted content comprises obtaining primary content Block and obtaining a secondary content indicator associated with the primary content including a secondary content timing and a secondary content parameter Block . For example referring to distribution system may receive the plurality of content and the corresponding plurality of content metadata from one or more content providers . The primary content may comprise one of the plurality of content . The secondary content indicator as well as the content timing and other content parameters may be defined within either each one of the plurality of content or within the plurality of content metadata which may include secondary content indicators and or cuing protocol . The secondary content indicators and or cuing protocol may be associated with the plurality of content by any party to system such as an operator of distribution system a content provider an advertiser a service provider a content retailer etc.

Further the method may include obtaining a plurality of secondary content Block and obtaining a secondary content attribute for each of the plurality of secondary content Block . For example referring to the plurality of content obtained by distribution system may further include a plurality of secondary content. Similarly the plurality of content metadata obtained by distribution system may further include one or more secondary content attributes for each of the plurality of secondary content. The secondary content attributes e.g. the content metadata may be associated with the plurality of content by any party to system such as an operator of distribution system a content provider an advertiser a service provider a content retailer etc.

The method may also include generating a one to many transmission of the primary content and the secondary content indicator Block and generating a one to many transmission of the plurality of secondary content Block . For example referring to distribution system may generate transmission such that it includes both primary content and secondary content within the plurality of content carried by the transmission . And as noted previously transmission may carry the secondary content indicator within either the plurality of content or the plurality of content metadata or as a separate cuing protocol . Further it should be noted that there may be separate one to many transmission of this data or there may be one transmission comprising all of the data where the one transmission may include a plurality of channels each having different ones of the data.

Further the method may include obtain an identification of secondary content cached on a wireless device and an identification of user interactivity with the wireless device associated with a presentation of the cached secondary content Block . For example referring to distribution system is operable to receive tracking report from wireless device where tracking report provides information related to the device hardware and software states and user interactions occurring on wireless device in association with presentation including selected secondary content .

Additionally the method may include adjusting based on the identifications at least one of a secondary content parameter and a population of the plurality of secondary content included in the one to many transmission Block . For example referring to distribution system for example via content manager module may adjust one or more secondary content parameters associated with at least one of the plurality of content based upon the feedback received in tracking report . In another example distribution system for example via content manager module may alter the content included in transmission including primary content and secondary content based on the feedback received in the tracking report .

It should be noted that some portion or all of the above defined actions may be performed on distribution system of system . For example in one aspect all of the above actions are performed on distribution system . In another aspect for example the actions associated with characterizing each of the plurality of content with one or more content metadata as well as the adjusting actions may performed external to distribution system while the remaining actions may be performed on distribution system . Further one or more of the above defined actions may be performed by one or more components of system . For example the primary content secondary content the respective content metadata and the secondary content indicators and or cuing protocols may be delivered by any combination of one or more components of system .

Therefore in various aspects the apparatus and methods of the described system provide for the distribution of a plurality of content having descriptive metadata. Further in various aspects the apparatus and methods of the described system provide for the retention and presentation of content selected by the wireless device from a one to many transmission of the plurality of content. A content selector executable by the wireless device extracts and caches selected ones from a transmission of the plurality of content based on for example a correspondence between selection parameters on the wireless device and the content metadata associated with the content. The selected content may comprise primary content and secondary content. In some aspects the selection parameters may include device generated user preference data identified from preference related information resident on the device. Additionally in some aspects a completely non invasive and private mechanism is provided to prevent the details of the user preference data from being exposed outside of the wireless device. Further the apparatus and methods of the described system provide for mechanisms for signaling for and including one or more of the selected content in a presentation of other content. For example the content selector is executable on the wireless device to initiate the inclusion of secondary content with a presentation of primary content for example based on a match between desired secondary content parameters and the content metadata of the cached secondary content. Thus a user of a wireless device is provided with content chosen by the wireless device from a group of content based on one or more user preferences and thus the content is likely to be of interest to the user.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

