---

title: Hydrophone unit
abstract: A hydrophone unit comprising a resilient central wire; a conductive wire coiled around the resilient central wire, said conductive wire being coated with a piezo material for generating an electrical signal in response to the presence of an acoustic vibration, wherein the resilient central wire is fabricated from spring steel, the conductive wire is a copper wire, the piezo material includes polyvinylidene difluoride; a layer of conductive material deposited on the piezo material-coated conductive wire, wherein the layer of conductive material comprises a silver ink; and a jacket of polyurethane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08194504&OS=08194504&RS=08194504
owner: The John Hopkins University
number: 08194504
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100310
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 539 948 filed Oct. 10 2006 U.S. Pat. No. 7 697 374 issued Apr. 13 2010 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 726 772 filed Oct. 14 2005 the entire contents of each being hereby incorporated herein by reference. U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 610 342 filed on Sep. 16 2004 is also incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention is made with Government support under NAVSEA Contract No. N00024 03 D 6606 awarded by the U.S. Navy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a hydrophone array and a system and method for deploying the array particularly hydrophone arrays for underwater acoustic sensing of subsurface marine vehicles.

Hydrophone arrays are used militarily to detect the presence of submarines and to provide information about their movements. Because modern submarines have the ability with cruise missiles to attack surface ships at great distances the protection of surface shipping requires the ability to detect and track submerged submarines over vast areas of ocean. Hydrophone arrays have typically been used for this purpose.

Hydrophones are acoustic transducers which operate by detecting acoustic signals and converting them to electrical impulses which can then be transmitted by radio waves to a distant receiver. Typically an array of hydrophones is loaded into a sonobuoy which can then be dropped by airplane into the ocean. The array is then deployed while a float containing a transmitter remains at the surface of the water.

What is yet needed is a collapsible hydrophone array support system which maintains the array in a predetermined configuration when deployed with reduced chance of twisting the wires and which can be fit into a sonobuoy.

A hydrophone array is provided herein the hydrophone array comprising an inflatable shaped housing enclosing an interior space and formable between a collapsed configuration and an expanded configuration a framework of compliant material disposed within the interior of the inflatable housing and a plurality of hydrophone units attached to the compliant material at respective positions wherein said hydrophone units are arranged in a predetermined geometric array when the shaped housing is in the expanded configuration. Also provided herein is a system and method for deploying the hydrophone array.

The invention herein advantageously provides a means for deploying an array of hydrophones in a predetermined configuration with less chance of twisting the wires with multiple support members. The array is collapsible into a size A or smaller sonobuoy and the inflatable support structure uses no metal.

Referring now to the hydrophone array deployment system includes a float battery tether line hydrophone array with collapsed uninflated support system and pump loaded into a sonobuoy cannister . The sonobuoy cannister can be size A or smaller.

Referring also now to the system is shown deployed in a body of water . Deployment can be accomplished by for example dropping system into the water by airplane surface vessel or any other suitable means. Jettison of the contents of the sonobuoy cannister can be accomplished by various means such as the impact of the sonobuoy into the water. Alternatively a battery e.g. seawater activated battery can power the ejection of the contents by for example firing a squib. Also back plate can be jettisoned by water impact firing a squib etc. to allow the hydrophone array to descend to the proper depth. Float remains at the surface of the body of water and preferably includes a transmitter with antenna and the appropriate battery powered electronics for converting the electrical signals from the hydrophones into radio waves for wireless transmission to a remote receiver. The transmitter is preferably powered by battery . Tether preferably includes a harness for holding the supported hydrophone array and a conductive wire for conducting electrical pulses from hydrophone units to the transmitter . Tether can be of any length suitable for deploying the hydrophone array at a desired depth and can typically range up to 250 feet in length. Amplifier increases the power of the electrical signal from the hydrophones for transmission to the transmitter. Suitable amplifiers are known in the art and commonly available. Pump serves as both a weight and an inflation means to introduce water into the inflatable housing as discussed more fully below and can be powered by for example a falling weight a spring or other mechanical means or may optionally include a battery for electrical power.

The system can be active or passive. Active sonobuoy systems emit acoustic signals into the water and listen for the return echo. Passive systems merely listen for sounds made by underwater craft e.g. power plant propellers door closings or other mechanically generated or human generated noise.

Referring now to the deployable supported hydrophone array includes a flexible waterproof inflatable housing which in an uninflated collapsed configuration can be fit within a size A or smaller sonobuoy. Upon being immersed in a body of water it is inflated with water by means of pump . Valve at the upper portion of the housing is a release valve for air or excess pressure. Valve at the bottom of housing is a water inlet valve receiving a flow of water via water feed line from pump . The inflatable housing defines an interior space in which patterned compliant supports are enclosed and can be fabricated from any flexible non metallic waterproof material such as synthetic polymer or natural or synthetic rubber sheet e.g. polyolefin polyester PVC etc. . The housing and compliant supports preferably contain no metal or dense material which might cause reflections of sound waves within the hydrophone array. Optionally one or more fins can be attached to the exterior of the housing to permit alignment with the ocean current and to inhibit unwanted rotation. As mentioned above an amplifier is employed to augment the electrical signals from the hydrophones to which it is electrically connected.

The compliant supports are preferably sheets of fabric or netting attached together and to the interior of the housing and are so constructed such that when the housing is inflated the supports of compliant fabric are arranged in a three dimensional pattern . Acoustic transducers such as hydrophone units are affixed to the supports of compliant fabric sheets such that when fully deployed the hydrophone units are oriented in vertical parallel lines. The hydrophone units can be sewn into the compliant fabric bonded by adhesive secured in pockets in the fabric or affixed to the compliant fabric by any suitable means. Hydrophone units suitable for use in the invention are commercially available from Argotech Inc. of Fort Lauderdale Fla.

Referring now to the hydrophone units when deployed are arranged as horizontally spaced apart vertically extending linear units so as to define with the compliant fabric supports radially oriented planes extending from a central line . Preferably the array includes planes extending laterally between the radially oriented planes . As shown in three radial planar extensions are included in a tripodal array containing 20 30 hydrophone units . The hydrophones are preferably spaced apart from each other by a distance of from about 2 to about 4 wherein is the wavelength of the target acoustic signal. However other configurations can alternatively be employed such as 5 membered or 7 membered planar extensions or other multi podal arrangements.

The optimal dimensions of the hydrophone array depend upon the target frequency of the acoustic signals expected tilt of the array due to relative current between the surface float and the hydrophone array and operating depth. A preferred length for the hydrophone wires is 48 or 58 where 8 is the wavelength of the target acoustic signal. This length provides a balance between vertical bandwidth given the expected array tilt and end fire notch depth to suppress any target frequency band noise originating from the surface float given the operating depth . For example referring to L is the length of the hydrophone wires and D is the diameter of the array. For a design frequency of 10 kHz L is preferably about 26 inches and D is preferably about 28 inches. The inflatable housing holds a volume of less than about 40 gallons of water and in a collapsed state would fit in a size A sonobuoy canister. For a design frequency of 15 kHz L is preferably about 18 inches D is preferably about 24 inches and the inflatable housing holds less than about 20 gallons of water and would fit in a size A 2 sonobuoy canister.

Various types of acoustic transducers can be used to detect acoustic waves transmitted through the water. For example the acoustic transducer can comprise a tube formed at least in part of a piezo material. Piezo materials can be piezoelectric which generate an electrical pulse or current upon receiving a mechanical impulse such as from an acoustic vibration or piezoresistive which change resistance upon receiving a mechanical impulse. Piezoelectric material can comprise an active polarized ceramic material such as barium titanate or lead zirconate titanate PZT . The piezoelectric material can in another embodiment be a piezoelectric polymer material such as polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF or a piezo rubber composite material. Piezoresistive materials include for example conductive elastomeric polymeric foams or rubbers which become more conductive when compressed.

For purposes of the present invention the hydrophone needs to be sufficiently flexible to be folded into a sonobuoy canister. Typically hydrophones include a central or core conductor an outer conductor and a layer of piezo material disposed between and in contact with the core conductor and outer conductor in a coaxial configuration. When subjected to mechanical force the piezo material such as polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF generates an electrical current which is carried by the conductors. However in a new preferred embodiment hydrophone includes a piano wire type construction as shown in . In particular a central wire fabricated from a resilient metallic or non metallic material preferably spring steel provides a resilient core which gives the hydrophone a shape memory and a biasing force such that when the hydrophone is released from the canister into the seawater it automatically returns to a straight configuration. A conductive wire coil of smaller diameter wire than the central spring steel wire is first coated with a layer of piezo material e.g. PVDF and then in one embodiment of the invention is coated with a conductive layer of copper aluminum silver gold or the like. Preferably conductive layer is applied e.g. by spraying dipping painting etc. as a silver ink. The conductive wire coil is then tightly wound around the central wire . The conductive wire coil is preferably fabricated from copper aluminum silver gold or alloys thereof or of any other highly conductive ductile and flexible material. In an especially preferred embodiment the wire coil comprises a copper wire. In this embodiment the conductive wire coil acts as an inner conductor and the conductive coating acts as an outer conductor both being in contact with the piezo material layer . Optionally the conductive layer can be applied after the piezo material coated conductive wire is coiled around the resilient central wire preferably under pressure. In yet another embodiment the conductive layer e.g. silver ink is applied both before and after the piezo material coated conductive wire is coiled around the resilient central wire . Preferably hydrophone can include an outer jacket of polyurethane or other waterproof electrically insulative flexible material to prevent electrical signals from the hydrophone from being dissipated in the seawater. The copper coil provides significantly greater flexibility than a comparably sized hydrophone using a coaxial configuration with a solid copper core. The hydrophone wire typically has a diameter ranging from about to about 1 10 inches.

The system is deployed for example by launch from an airplane. When the sonobuoy enters the water the contents of the sonobuoy are ejected from the cannister. The float remains on the water surface and the deployable array drops to a predetermined depth. Pump acts as a ballast. A falling weight or other suitable mechanism powers pump to deliver water through feed line and water inlet valve into the flexible housing which then expands to deploy the array of hydrophones and sheets of compliant material . Air or excess pressure is released through valve .

Acoustic waves which strike the array are converted by the hydrophone array are converted by the hydrophone units into electrical signals which are processed by an amplifier . A circuit diagram for an amplifier suitable for use in the present invention is illustrated in . The circuit can be embodied in a printed circuit board as small as 0.325 inches by 0.800 inches. The circuit shown in has the following parameters 

While the above description contains many specifics these specifics should not be construed as limitations of the invention but merely as exemplifications of preferred embodiments thereof. For example while the invention herein is particularly advantageous for military applications and has been described in terms of detection of submarines it can clearly be employed in any situation wherein acoustic detection is needed such as oceanographic or other scientific studies rescue operations and the like. Those skilled in the art will envision many other embodiments within the scope and spirit of the invention as defined by the claims appended hereto.

