---

title: Provisioning for enterprise services
abstract: Configuring a communication system. Configuring a Private Branch eXchange (PBX) system to respond to a configuration telephone number by routing call control for the configuration number to an Service Management Platform (SMP). Determining an enterprise extension associated with an enterprise account in the domain of the SMP. Directing a mobile communication device associated with the enterprise account to call the configuration telephone number, and to communicate the determined enterprise extension and an authentication token of the enterprise account. Receiving, at the PBX system, a call on the configuration telephone number. Routing the call to the SMP. Receiving the determined enterprise extension at the SMP. Determining the PBX system port of the call. Directing the mobile communication device to communicate the authentication token. Receiving the authentication token. Upon receipt of an authentication token equivalent to the directed authentication token, associating the enterprise account with the determined PBX system port.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08570899&OS=08570899&RS=08570899
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08570899
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100512
---
The technology disclosed herein the technology relates to communication system configuration. Exemplary embodiments of the technology relate to determining a communications path between an enterprise associated mobile communications device and an enterprise resource.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the technology. Each example is provided by way of explanation of the technology only not as a limitation of the technology. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present technology without departing from the technology. For instance features described as part of one embodiment can be used on another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment. Thus it is intended that the present technology cover such modifications and variations that come within the scope of the technology.

The present application relates to the control and management of communications. Although reference may be made to calls in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to messaging based communications in some embodiments.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as a user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is information such as message address information such as an e mail address and enterprise telephone exchange e.g. a phone exchange that can be associated with a digital telephone set e.g. . Information on users of the enterprise network and its resources can be stored in an enterprise data store e.g. implemented with Microsoft Active Directory. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by a user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments a user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application a user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to a user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on a computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange system although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX system to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX system is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX system may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX system may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX system is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX system to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX system are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX system and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX system may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX system and in some embodiments the DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications platform . Again although references are made below to calls or call centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session based communications in general and in some instances to messaging based communications.

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX system are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX system for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX system and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX system . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP . Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed to the communication devices and that leverage services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer can include protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service or a conference service or combinations thereof.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . The conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

A given SMP is typically connected to a plurality of PBX system ports e.g. on the same network and communicating via SIP. A given SMP can manage calls for many e.g. hundreds of user devices . The number of user devices handled by an SMP is typically much greater than the number of PBX system ports directed to an SMP . Instead of configuring the SMP for each user device embodiments of the present technology leverage existing voice and data infrastructure including a configured PBX system to associate a user device with a PBX system port entering the SMP .

Referring to and messages and methods of the technology are illustrated in a signal ladder and flow chart respectively.

For a given SMP the PBX system can be configured to respond to a predetermined telephone number e.g. a configuration number by routing call control for the configuration number to the given SMP and conveying messages e.g. DTMF signals between the calling device and that SMP .

The given SMP can determine the enterprise extension associated with an enterprise account e.g. a account of an enterprise network user under its management e.g. the SMP can query an enterprise user database e.g. on the enterprise network with a user identifier and receive an enterprise extension of that user in response. In some embodiments a network resource other than an SMP can determine the enterprise extension associated with a user.

The given SMP can e.g. using messaging direct a device associated with a user to place a call to the configuration number . The message can contain the enterprise number of a user and an authentication token. The authentication token later can be used to verify that a certain response described below is indeed from an enterprise device associated with a user. The given SMP can send the message through the enterprise server then via the PLMN to the device . In some embodiments a network resource other than the given SMP can direct the device to call the configuration number.

The device can receive the message and in response can place a call typically via the PLMN and the PSTN to the configuration telephone number at the PBX system . The PBX can receive the call on the configuration number.

The PBX system can respond to a call on the incoming predetermined telephone number by routing call control for the call to the given SMP and establishing two way communication e.g. DTMF between the device and the given SMP . While DTMF communication is used in this description of enabling embodiments the technology includes other forms of communication between a device and an SMP via the PBX system e.g. SIP messages.

The device can then communicate the enterprise number e.g. via DTMF as the payload of a SIP message to the given SMP . The given SMP receives the enterprise extension number . In some embodiments the given SMP commands the device to communicate the enterprise number.

The given SMP can determine the particular PBX system port providing the communication e.g. by noting the port over which communication occurs by examining data or metadata of the communication from the PBX system .

The given SMP can command the device to communicate the authentication token to the given SMP e.g. using message . The device sends the communication token e.g. via DTMF using message . In some embodiments a command for the authentication token is not required i.e. the device communicates the token to the given SMP without command.

The SMP can receive the sent communication token and compare it with the token created for this device . A positive comparison authenticates that the token sender is device . Upon a positive comparison the given SMP associates the PBX system port with the enterprise extension thereby configuring the given SMP for that user device.

The given SMP does this for a plurality of users under its management. In some embodiments the plurality of users for which this is done is substantially greater than the number of PBX system ports terminating at that SMP . In some embodiments portions of the technology though described herein as being executed in the given SMP e.g. token generation token comparison association of an enterprise number with a particular PBX system port can be performed on other network resources. Systems of the technology can comprise hardware and functionality described above along with software for implementing the methods.

In some embodiments a given SMP places a call through the PBX system to a device associated with an enterprise extension controlled by the given SMP . Configuration information e.g. PBX system port is associated with the device and the enterprise extension in this fashion and communicated to the given SMP e.g. via the PLMN and the enterprise server .

The following example provides further illustration of embodiments of the technology in the context of and . An enterprise address book is established e.g. in the enterprise data store to contain data on each user to be configured for enterprise services e.g. services provide by an SMP to extend enterprise telephony functions to enterprise associated mobile devices . An enterprise phone extension is listed in the address book for each such user.

The PBX system is configured to recognize calls made to a configuration number unique to a given SMP and route call received on that number to that SMP . For each user account managed at a given SMP a mobile device associated with the user account is directed to call back into the configuration number e.g. using the PLMN PSTN communication path between the device and the PBX system .

For configuring the communication path of a device associated with a user account managed by a given SMP a message is sent to the enterprise associated mobile device associated with the enterprise extension to place a call to the configuration number and then enter via DTMF the enterprise phone extension. The PBX system routes the call to the SMP associated with that configuration number. The SMP records the desired meta data that accompanies the call which includes the PBX system port over which that the device communicates with the given SMP .

The given SMP has now established a mapping between the enterprise account for the user the enterprise extension for the user the enterprise associated mobile device for the user and the PBX system port that handles communications for that enterprise extension and mobile device . The SMP can now register for enterprise phone services on behalf of the user and extend the enterprise phone experience out to the user s device .

The present technology can take the forms of hardware software or both hardware and software elements. In some embodiments the technology is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. In particular for real time or near real time use an FPGA or ASIC implementation is desirable.

Furthermore the present technology can take the form of a computer program product comprising program modules accessible from computer usable or computer readable medium storing program code for use by or in connection with one or more computers processors or instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium though propagation mediums in and of themselves as signal carriers are not included in the definition of physical computer readable medium . Examples of a physical computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD. Both processors and program code for implementing each as aspect of the technology can be centralized or distributed or a combination thereof .

A data processing system suitable for storing a computer program product of the present technology and for executing the program code of the computer program product will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters can also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters. Such systems can be centralized or distributed e.g. in peer to peer and client server configurations. In some embodiments the data processing system is implemented using one or both of FPGAs and ASICs.

