---

title: Annotating E-books / E-magazines with application results and function calls
abstract: A device receives and displays an electronic book or electronic magazine, and receives user selection of a portion of content of the electronic book or electronic magazine. The device executes an application that obtains items of data related to the selected portion of content, receives selection of one or more items of the data, and attaches the one or more items of data to the selected portion of the content in a bookmark fashion to annotate the e-book or e-magazine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700987&OS=08700987&RS=08700987
owner: Sony Mobile Communications AB
number: 08700987
owner_city: Lund
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20100909
---
Electronic books e books or electronic magazines e magazines include electronic text and possibly associated graphics and images that form a digital media replacement of conventional printed books or magazines. e books or e magazines may be read on a computer e.g. personal tablet or palmtop computer or on a dedicated hand held device that is purposely designed to serve as an e book or e magazine reader. Such dedicated devices are typically called e readers or e book devices. e readers or e book devices typically are designed with the appropriate screen size battery lifespan lighting and weight for the purpose of permitting users to easily and comfortably read e books and or e magazines.

In one exemplary embodiment a method implemented by a processing unit of a device may include receiving and displaying an electronic book e book or electronic magazine e magazine receiving user selection of a portion of content of the e book or e magazine executing an application that obtains items of data related to the selected portion of content receiving selection of one or more items of the data and attaching the one or more items of data to the selected portion of the content in a bookmark fashion to annotate the e book or e magazine.

Additionally displaying the e book or e magazine may include displaying the e book or e magazine on a first display of the device having a first touch panel.

Additionally wherein the device has network connectivity and wherein the device may include one of a cellular radiotelephone a desktop computer a laptop computer a palmtop computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA an e reader or an e book device.

Additionally executing the application may include executing at least one of a web searching application a mapping application a navigation application a translation application a dictionary application or a user comment entry application.

Additionally the application may include the mapping application and the items of data may include data associated with a map which is related to the selected portion of content.

Additionally the application may include the navigation application and the items of data may include data associated with geographic navigation which is related to the selected portion of content.

Additionally the application may include the translation application and the items of data may include data associated with translating the selected portion of content from a first language to a second language.

Additionally the application may include the dictionary application and the items of data may include dictionary definitions related to the selected portion of content.

Additionally the application may include the user comment entry application and the items of data may include user provided comments related to the selected portion of content.

Additionally the web searching application may include at least one of a text searching application an image file searching application a video file searching application or an audio file searching application.

Additionally the application may include the text searching application and the items of data may include text search results related to the selected portion of content or wherein

the application may include the image file searching application and the items of data may include one or more image files related to the selected portion of content or wherein the application may include the video file searching application and the items of data may include one or more video files related to the selected portion of content or wherein the application may include the audio file searching application and the items of data may include one or more audio files related to the selected portion of content.

Additionally receiving user selection of a portion of content of the e book or e magazine further includes receiving input from a user that visually highlights the portion of the content of the e book or e magazine on a first display that displays a page of the e book or e magazine.

Additionally the method may further include presenting a menu of applications and receiving user selection of the application from the menu of applications to execute the application.

Additionally the menu of applications is presented by displaying the menu on a second display of the device having a second touch panel.

Additionally the method may further include associating an icon with the one or more items of data and displaying the icon in a vicinity of the portion of content when displaying a page of the e book or magazine that includes the portion of the content.

Additionally the method may further include storing the e book or e magazine along its annotations and sending the e book or e magazine along with its annotations to a server for sharing with other users.

In another exemplary embodiment a device may include a first display having a first touch panel a second display having a second touch panel wherein the second display is attached to the first display via a hinge mechanism such that the first and second displays can open and close in a book like fashion a communication interface configured to communicate via an external network and a processing unit configured to display an e book or e magazine via the first display receive user selection of a portion of content of the e book or e magazine via the first touch panel display a menu of applications via the second display receive user selection of an application from the menu via the second touch panel execute the user selected application to send the selected portion of the content and a function request to a server via the communication interface and the external network receive items of data related to the selected portion of content from the server via the communication interface receive selection of one or more of the items of data and attach the selected one or more of the items of data to the selected portion of the content to annotate the e book or e magazine.

Additionally when executing the user selected application the processing unit is configured to execute at least one of a web searching application a mapping application a navigation application a translation application a dictionary application or a user comment entry application.

Additionally when receiving user selection of the portion of content of the e book or e magazine via the first touch panel the processing unit is further configured to receive input from a user via the first touch panel that visually highlights the portion of the content of the e book or e magazine on the first display.

Additionally the device may include one of a cellular radiotelephone a desktop computer a laptop computer a palmtop computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA an e reader or an e book device.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention as claimed.

In one exemplary implementation device may include a dual display device as shown in where device includes a first display and a second display interconnected by a hinge mechanism that permits display and display to open and close similar to a book. Displays and may each include any type of touch panel display device. In one exemplary implementation display may include an e ink display and display may include a color touch panel display device. As shown in display may display a page of an e book or e magazine where the page may include content such as text graphics or images. In another exemplary implementation display and display may not be physically connected to one another e.g. via hinge mechanism shown in but may be tethered to operate as a pair by communicating with one another without having any physical interconnection. Such communication may be conducted via for example Bluetooth.

Display may display a menu of applications that may be selected by a user of device to obtain information related to portions of the content of page displayed on display . For example as shown in the user of device may sequentially highlight through portions of content e.g. highlighted text shown in . For each highlighted portion of content of page the user may select an application from menu displayed on display causing the selected application to be executed to obtain data related to corresponding content highlighted on page . To annotate the e book or e magazine selected items of data from the data obtained by the executed application may be attached in a bookmark fashion to the highlighted portions of content on page . Attaching the selected items of data in bookmark fashion to the e book or e magazine may include linking the selected items of data to the highlighted content in the e book or e magazine to create annotations that may stored in conjunction with the e book or e magazine. For example if the user highlights a given word on page on display and selects and executes a dictionary application the user may select one or more of the dictionary definitions of the given word from the executed dictionary application and may attach the one or more definitions to the highlighted word on page . Attaching the data obtained by the executed application to a highlighted portion of content on page may be performed by the user in various ways. In one exemplary implementation the user may drag and drop selected items of data obtained by the executed application onto to the appropriate highlighted content on page . For example referring to the example above the user may select a definition of a word from an executed dictionary application and may drag the definition over to the highlighted word on page of display to drop the definition on the highlighted word. Dropping the definition on the highlighted word may cause the definition to be attached in a bookmark fashion to the highlighted word.

Applications displayed on menu may include a web text search application an image search application a video search application an audio search application a geographic mapping application a navigation application a dictionary application a translation application or a user comment application. Execution of the text search application enables search results to be located e.g. on the web that relate to the corresponding content highlighted on page by the user. Execution of the image search application enables images to be located e.g. on the web that relate to the corresponding content highlighted on page by the user. Execution of the video search application enables video files to be located e.g. on the web that relate to the corresponding content highlighted on page by the user. Execution of the audio search application enables audio files to be located e.g. on the web that relate to the corresponding content highlighted on page by the user. Execution of the geographic mapping application enables geographic maps to be retrieved e.g. from the web that relate to the corresponding content highlighted on page by the user. Execution of the navigation application enables navigation data i.e. data describing geographic navigation from one geographic location to another to be retrieved e.g. from the web that relates to the corresponding content highlighted on page by the user. Execution of the dictionary application enables one or more dictionary definitions to be retrieved e.g. from the web that relate to the corresponding content highlighted on page by the user. Execution of the translation application enables textual content highlighted on page by the user to be translated to a different user selected language. Execution of the user comment application enables the user to enter comments e.g. textual audio and or video that the user may have regarding the corresponding content highlighted on page or to view comments from other users. Other types of applications not specifically described herein may also be accessible via menu . For example an ask other application may be accessible via menu that obtains data regarding the highlighted content from other users. While applications may obtain data from the web other sources are possible.

In an alternative second exemplary implementation device may include a single display device as shown in where device includes only a single display . The single display of device of may display a page of an e book or e magazine. In addition to page display may display a menu of applications that may be selected by a user of device to obtain information related to portions of the content of page displayed on display . For example as shown in the user of device may sequentially highlight through portions of content e.g. highlighted text shown in . For each highlighted portion of content of page of the e book or e magazine the user may select an application from menu displayed on display causing the selected application to be executed to obtain data related to corresponding content highlighted on page . Selected items of data from the data obtained by the executed application may be attached in a bookmark fashion to the highlighted portions of content on page as described above with respect to page to annotate the e book or e magazine.

Device may include as described above any type of device that may display and annotate an e book or e magazine and which may include a communication interface that enables device to interconnect with an external network. Device may include for example a cellular radiotelephone a desktop laptop palmtop or tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a dedicated e reader or e book device having a communication interface. Though only one device is depicted in for purposes of illustration multiple different devices may connect to network to interact with servers through 

Servers through may each include server entities that may execute various functions based on the execution of corresponding applications at device . Such functions may include for example text searching image searching video file searching audio file searching the provision of electronic maps the provision of navigation information dictionary searching and or language translation. Servers through may execute the various functions based on data and function requests received via applications executed at device . The data may include for example content highlighted in an e book or e magazine e.g. textual content . Servers through upon receiving the data via applications executed at device may execute functions corresponding to the function request received from device . For example device may send text highlighted by the user in an e book or e magazine to a server along with a text searching function request. The server may perform a text search of a corpus of data to return items of data e.g. search results related to the results of the text search performed using the text sent by device . One or more of servers through may also store e books e magazines and or corresponding annotations received from device .

Network may include one or more networks of any type such as for example a telecommunications network e.g. a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN an intranet the Internet a wireless satellite network a cable network e.g. an optical cable network and or one or more wireless public land mobile networks PLMNs . The PLMN s may include a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 2000 PLMN a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM PLMN a Long Term Evolution LTE PLMN and or other types of PLMNs not specifically described herein.

Processing unit may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Main memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processing unit . ROM may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that may store static information and instructions for use by processing unit . Storage device may include a magnetic and or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive.

Input device s may permit an operator to input information to device such as for example one or more displays having touch panels a keypad or a keyboard voice recognition and or biometric mechanisms etc. Output device s may output information to the operator including a display a speaker one or more displays etc. Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as communicating with servers through via network . As a specific example communication interface may include a wireless radio transceiver for communicating with servers through via a wireless network e.g. via a cellular PLMN .

Device may perform certain operations or processes or may implement certain functional modules as may be described herein. Device may perform these operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. A logical memory device may include memory space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. Device may use various different operating systems such as for example Android Apple i operating system Linux Windows Phone Windows or Meego among other operating systems.

The software instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in main memory may cause processing unit to perform operations or processes or to implement functional modules that are described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus exemplary implementations are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The configuration of components of device illustrated in is for illustrative purposes only. It should be understood that other configurations may be implemented. Therefore device may include additional fewer and or different components than those depicted in .

e book e magazine annotation module may interact with user I F module to annotate an e book or e magazine. e book e magazine annotation module may receive content of the e book or e magazine from user I F module selected by the user e.g. highlighted . e book e magazine module may instruct user I F module to provide a menu of applications to the user e.g. menu or of . e book e magazine module may receive data items that result from execution of an application selected by the user via the menu of applications and may attach in a bookmark fashion user selected ones of the data items to the content selected by the user to create annotations of the content of the e book or e magazine.

User I F module may provide a graphical user interface GUI to a user of device via one or more displays e.g. displays and . User I F module may receive selections of content from a displayed e book e magazine and may pass the selections of content to annotation module . User I F module may receive instructions from annotation module to display a menu of applications to the user and may receive selection of one or more of the applications. Module may execute the selected one or more applications and may send a function request and user selected content from the e book e magazine to one or more of servers through . Module may receive items of data back from the one or more servers and may further receive a selection of one or more of the items of data from the user via the GUI. The user selected one or more of the items of data may be passed to annotation module for annotating the e book e magazine.

Storage module may store the data items attached in a bookmark fashion to the e book e magazine. Storage module may store the data items as annotations of the corresponding e book e magazine in main memory or storage device of device .

The exemplary process may include displaying an e book or e magazine block . Referring back to device may display a page of the e book or e magazine via display or via display . The e book or e magazine may be retrieved from memory e.g. storage device main memory or may be received via communication interface and network . For example referring to the example of device may obtain an e book and display a page of the e book via display . It may be determined if selected content of the e book or e magazine has been highlighted by the user block . The user may select specific content from the e book or e magazine by for example touching the content on display thereby causing the content to be highlighted. The selected content may include for example text graphics or images. Referring to the example of the user has touched the text Saladin Foster on page to cause the text to be highlighted.

If selected content of the e book or e magazine has been highlighted by the user YES block then an application menu may be displayed block . Referring to the example of a menu may be displayed that includes a list of applications that can be selected by the user for annotating the e book or e magazine. Referring to an additional example shown in the dual display example of a menu may be displayed in display that includes a list of applications that can be selected by the user for annotating the e book or e magazine.

An application selection may be received via the displayed application menu block . As shown in the example of the user may select an application from menu e.g. the user has selected the user comment entry make a note application . As further shown in the additional example of the user may select a web search application from menu displayed in display .

The selected application may be executed based on the highlighted content block . Processing unit of device may retrieve and execute the application selected by the user in block . With the web search applications map application navigation application dictionary application or translation application device may during execution of the application selected by the user in block send a function request to an appropriate one of servers through along with the user selected content from the e book or e magazine. The function request may request the appropriate function to be performed at the server based on the user selected content. For example if the user has selected a text searching application then device may send a function request that includes a text search request and may send textual content selected from the e book or e magazine. In the example of after selection of the user comment entry application from menu a window may be displayed in display as further shown in which presents the user with the option to enter a text or voice comment. In another example of where the annotation process is performed using dual displays and display may display a window which presents the user with the option to enter a text or voice comment. In a further text searching example shown in execution of the web search application causes the highlighted content e.g. Saladin Foster to be pasted in a search page in display such that the user may select a search button to cause the highlighted content to be sent to a text searching server for execution of a text search based on the highlighted content of a corpus of documents.

Items of data related to the highlighted content may be received from the executed application block . In the case of web search applications a map application a navigation application a dictionary application or a translation application the items of data may be received from an appropriate server of servers through for processing by the executed application. In the case of a user comment entry application the executed application may request user entry of a voice text or video comment. Referring to the example of the user may select from entering text and or voice comments via window . As further shown in if text comment entry is selected by the user a keypad may be displayed via display such that the user can enter text in a comment entry window . As also shown in if voice comment entry is selected by the user a window may be displayed in display that permits the user to record a voice comment. Referring to the dual display example of the user may also select entry of either a text or voice comment. As shown in if text comment entry is selected by the user a keypad may be displayed via display such that the user can enter text in a comment entry window . As further shown in if voice comment entry is selected by the user a window may be displayed in display that permits the user to record a voice comment. In the text searching example of the server performing the text search based on the highlighted content may return a set of search results that user may select from to annotate the highlighted content.

It may be determined whether one or more data items are selected by the user from the items of data block . In the case of web search applications a map application a navigation application a dictionary application or a translation application multiple items of data may be received from a server and the user may select one or more data items from the received multiple items of data. In the case of a user comment entry application the user may select from voice text and or video comments entered by the user. Selection of the one or more data items may include for example the user dragging via a touch panel of displays or the items of data e.g. URLs images video maps etc. obtained from execution of the application to drop the items of data on the portion of content highlighted by the user. Referring again to the text searching example of the user may select one or more of the search results provided to device by the text searching server.

The selected one or more data items may be attached to the highlighted content in bookmark fashion to create annotations block . The selected items of data may be attached in bookmark fashion to the e book or e magazine by for example linking the selected items of data to the highlighted content in the e book or e magazine. The linked items of data create annotations of the e book or e magazine that may stored with a pointer to point to the corresponding content of the e book or e magazine. Annotation module of device may attach the selected one or more data items to the highlighted content in a bookmark fashion via storage module . Successful attachment of the one or more data items to a highlighted portion of content may cause the highlighted content to change its appearance. For example the highlighted content may change from a first highlighted color to a second highlighted color. In addition to attaching the one or more items functional calls may also be attached to the highlighted content for certain applications. For example when translation dictionary or ask others applications are executed a function call may attached to the highlighted content that may permit the re execution of the application when the annotated e book or e magazine is opened to be read by a user in the future. Attachment of the function call permits updated items of data e.g. updated dictionary definitions updated user comments updated navigation directions updated translations etc. to be obtained from servers through whenever the annotated e book or e magazine is opened for reading in the future.

An icon associated with the selected one or more data items attached to the highlighted content may be displayed in the vicinity of the content block . Data items obtained via each type of executed application may have a different icon so that the user can quickly determine what kind of annotation e.g. search result dictionary definition translation user comment etc. is associated with each respective highlighted portion of content. As shown in various portions of content may be highlighted and on a page of an e book or e magazine. After attachment of the one or more data items in a bookmark fashion to the highlighted content corresponding icons and may associated with each portion of highlighted content. The appearance of each different type of icon may for example indicate the type of data item attached to the highlighted content. For example a translation icon may be different than a dictionary definition icon a user comment icon may be different than a map icon a navigation icon may be different than an audio file search icon etc.

It may be determined whether the annotated e book or e magazine should be stored block . During the annotation process or subsequent to annotating the entirety of the e book or e magazine the user may choose to store the annotated e book or e magazine. If so the e book or e magazine along with its annotations may be stored block . Annotation module may cause the e book or e magazine along with its annotations to be stored in memory via storage module . The e book or e magazine along with its annotations may be stored for example in main memory or storage device for future retrieval. Alternatively the e book or e magazine along with its annotations may be stored external to device . For example device may send the e book or e magazine along with its annotations to one of servers through for storage such that the e book or e magazine and annotations may be shared with other users e.g. in reading rooms provided by a server . Alternatively device may share the e book or e magazine and annotations with other users by sending it directly via network to other devices similar to device that are associated with other users.

Implementations described herein provide mechanisms for annotating an e book or e magazine using items of data obtained from the execution of applications that interact with external servers to obtain data related to portions of content highlighted by a user in the e book or e magazine. For a given highlighted portion of content of the e book or e magazine the user may select one or more of the items of data obtained from execution of an application e.g. a text searching application and may attach the one or more items of data to the highlighted portion of content by for example dragging and dropping the one or items of data onto the highlighted portion of content.

The foregoing description of the embodiments described herein provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. For example while a series of blocks has been described with respect to the order of the blocks may be varied in other implementations. Moreover non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

Certain features described herein may be implemented as logic or as a unit that performs one or more functions. This logic or unit may include hardware such as one or more processors microprocessors application specific integrated circuits or field programmable gate arrays software or a combination of hardware and software.

The term comprises or comprising as used herein including the claims specifies the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

No element act or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on as used herein is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

