---

title: Systems and methods for keyword analyzer
abstract: In one embodiment, a system and method is provided to browse and analyze files comprising text strings tagged with metadata. The system and method comprise various functions including browsing the metadata tags in the file, browsing the text strings, selecting subsets of the text strings by including or excluding strings tagged with specific metadata tags, selecting text strings by matching patterns of words and/or parts of speech in the text string and matching selected text strings to a database to identify similar text string. The system and method further provide functions to generate suggested text selection rules by analyzing a selected subset of a plurality of text strings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620944&OS=08620944&RS=08620944
owner: Demand Media, Inc.
number: 08620944
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100908
---
At least some embodiments disclosed herein relate generally to the field of electronic information processing and more particularly but not limited to associating one or more attributes to text strings e.g. search queries that satisfy one or more conditions in a plurality of rules and selecting one or more text strings on the basis of such attributes.

The Internet provides a convenient way to interact and to request various types of information. People can use the Internet for example to communicate with each other share information and organize virtual communities e.g. a social network .

One way of requesting information using the Internet is by using a search tool on a web site e.g. Google search service . Some search tools allow a user to search using a search query. For example a user may enter a location and a query for Italian restaurants to identify Italian restaurants in a specified area or location. Various web sites including some social networks are able to accept search queries from users. A search query indicates the information that a user is seeking.

Search services typically log search queries executed on such services. These query logs can provide a rich source of information which can be mined to gain insight into topics that are of interest to users.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

For the purposes of this disclosure content or online content should be understood to refer to various types of digital objects accessible over the Internet embodying the expression of one or more concepts that may be of interest to users. In one embodiment content may take the form of text articles such as news articles or topical articles relating to one or more topics. In one embodiment content may take the form of multimedia objects such as images audio presentations and audiovisual presentations relating to one or more topics.

For the purposes of this disclosure search term should be understood to represent a string of one or more tokens that can convey a concept or set of concepts and can be used in queries to search a database for entries relating to such concepts. A search term could comprise a single character or symbol a single keyword or keyword stem or group of keywords or a natural language phrase. Search terms can be used to form search queries for input to various search engines such as for example database search engines and web search engines. In various embodiments search queries can comprise one or more search terms combined using implicit or explicit relationships e.g. logical operators such as AND and OR . Search queries input to web search engines are commonly used by users to locate online content.

For the purposes of this disclosure title should be understood to represent a single sentence that could serve as a title for online content. Typically a title conveys a single concept in a concise way that allows users to readily identify the nature of online content to which such titles are attached.

Systems and methods are provided to browse files comprising in various embodiments lists of information that includes descriptive and or topical metadata. In one embodiment the system can be used to browse lists of potential titles for online content that has been tagged with metadata. In one embodiment the system provides functions to browse and discover titles by tags dictionaries rules part of speech patterns extracted tags significant and actual words in the title or other words phrases in or relating to the information.

The illustrative implementation below places the presently disclosed systems and methods in the content of an overall system for selecting titles from online query logs. It should be understood however that the keyword analyzer described herein could be used to analyze data from any source such as for example lists of webpage titles tagged with metadata.

In one embodiment the content service provider selects titles of potential interest. Such titles can then be provided to content authors who develop content relating to the titles for the content provider . The authors could be employees of the content service provider or could be independent contractors or employees of another entity. In one embodiment the content provider identifies potential titles at least in part by analyzing query logs for Internet searches performed by users.

In one embodiment content title selection servers collect query logs from one or more web search service providers over a network such as the Internet. In one embodiment the web search service provider maintains one or more web search servers connected to the Internet that provide web search services e.g. web queries to end users. The web search servers maintain one or more query logs that log all or substantially all web queries entered by end users. In one embodiment the web search servers provides means such as an API or an FTP server for content title selection servers of a content service provider to periodically or continuously download data derived from web search query logs such as for example all queries issued by users within a defined time range.

In one embodiment the content title selection servers process query log data retrieved from the web search service provider to identify search queries that are potential content. Such processing could include automatically selecting a subset of the material in the query logs as potential titles using rule based processing. Such processing could include tagging selected titles with various types of metadata. Such processing could include providing tools to content title selectors to browse and analyze tagged titles for the purpose of selecting titles for publication to content authors.

The systems shown in are purely illustrative and other configurations are possible as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. For example web query services content development and authoring services and online publishing services could all be provided by a single service provider and hosted on one or a cluster of networked servers located at one or more physical locations.

In block raw query log information is obtained from one or more information sources. In one embodiment the query log information could be obtained from one or more search services such as Yahoo or Google or third parties that sell similar information. It should be understood that the systems and methods disclosed herein need not be limited to information derived from query logs but could be applied to any data source such as for example lists of web page titles or third party data aggregation services.

In block the raw query log information is then processed to select search queries for potential titles for online content. In one embodiment potential titles could be selected using a rule based process such as that described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 828 200 filed Jun. 30 2010 entitled Rule Based System and Method to Associate Attributes to Text Strings the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In block the potential titles are then processed to tag the potential titles with metadata. Metadata tags can comprise any word group of words phrase or symbol that help to define characterize or provide information about potential titles. For example a tag could comprise a subject e.g. Ferrari sports cars a category e.g. cars or sports cars an action e.g. fixing a type of article e.g. a review or an online property of the potential title e.g. high traffic or low traffic .

In one embodiment metadata tags are associated with the selected queries using a rule based process such as that described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 828 200. Metadata tags could include data that represents an estimate of the lifetime value of content associated with the potential titles such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 826 524 filed Jun. 29 2010 entitled System and Method For Evaluating Search Queries To Identify Titles For Content Production the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In block the file comprising the tagged potential titles is then read into a keyword analyzer and viewed by content title selectors to select content titles for publication to content producers. In one embodiment the keyword analyzer provides a user interface that provides the following functions for various types of input files as listed below 

In one embodiment a relatively small sample of search queries can viewed by content title selectors and various criteria supported by the keyword analyzer can be applied to the sample to meet the needs of the content producers. For example content producers may want titles or articles about fashion including belts but belts might also show up in auto titles and home electronics titles. Using other tags such as for example fashion or clothing or accessories fashion oriented titles could be selected and using tags such as auto or electronics titles unrelated to fashion could be excluded. In one embodiment as described in detail below titles could also be browsed and additional user rules can be applied on an ad hoc basis for example titles that don t include certain parts of speech patterns or individual words could be selected. When the content producer is satisfied with the focus of the winnowed list the conditions rules used to select the list can be copied and used to select queries or titles that match such conditions in a large set of search queries e.g. all queries for a date range .

In block the selected titles are then published to content producers. The titles could be published in any format suitable for publication of information to remote users including emails text messages one or more web sites.

The illustrate one embodiment of a user interface of a keyword analyzer. It should be understood that the functionality provided by the user interface could be presented to the user in other formats. The examples provided illustrate the display and processing of a set of data which includes a specific set of tags keywords and topics. It should be understood that the methods embodied in the interface could be used to process any set of data comprising one or more lists of information tagged with descriptive metadata.

The interface provides a set of check boxes that condition the display of data on the interface. A Sort by Size check box allows users to specify that the display of tags are sorted by the number of titles to which the tag applies as opposed to the default sorting order which is alphabetical. An Exclusive Tags check box allows users to specify that only titles which have the exact same tags as specified tag inclusion filters discussed further below are displayed. Titles that have more or fewer tags than specified are not displayed. A Large Font check box allows users to specify that the interface be displayed in a larger font. An Exclude F Tags check box allows users to that any titles that have one or more f tags are not displayed F tags are Format tags some examples can be seen in as tags beginning with f .

The interface provides a set of drop down selection boxes that further condition the display of data on the interface. A Good Title selection box allows a user to choose to display titles and tags relating to such titles that the user has designated as Good. See in particular and of the present application and the discussion relating thereto below.

A Deliverability selection box allows a user to choose to display only titles and tags relating to such titles which have been tagged as deliverable or not deliverable. The default is to display all titles and tags Deliv All . The deliverability tag is a tag that can be assigned to a title by a manual or automated process as an assessment of whether a potential title is likely to be consistent with predefined editorial standards and requirements e.g. a policy manual provided to a contractor hired to review potential titles in order to select a final title . One embodiment of such a process is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 828 200.

An Intent selection box allows a user to choose to display titles and tags relating to such titles which have been tagged as having an intent of informational Yes or No . The default is to display all intents both Yes and No . The Intent is a tag that can be assigned to a title by a manual or automated process as an assessment of whether a query on which the title is based is likely informational that is to say seeking information e.g. content as opposed to for example being purely navigational e.g. seeking a specific website . One embodiment of such a process is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 828 200.

In The Tags tab initially shows all tags that the keyword analyzer has identified in the input file. Each tag in the tag list displays a count of how many titles have that tag. In one embodiment tags are free form text that can comprise any sequence of an arbitrary number of characters that indicate a title has satisfied a particular tagging rule. The actual tag text need not express the meaning of the tag although typically users will choose to create meaningful tag names e.g. motorcycles for titles relating to motor cycles . The interface can display the tags using any layout that helps the user navigate through the tags.

In the illustrated embodiment the tags are visually separated into boxes displayed on the interface. Each box displays tags with a specific tag prefix defined as a set of characters delineated from the tag body by a hyphen i.e. . In one embodiment tag prefixes can be used to namespace tags e.g. D T etc. to group like tags together into one or more categories. For example all action tags like fixing making installing etc. may be assigned a D prefix indicating that these tags have something in common with each other in this example the D tags are all action based concepts . Prefix namespaces may also be used to create an ad hoc hierarchy e.g. T software is a type of TT computers . This ad hoc hierarchy may be used for example to see or use a category e.g. computers after it has been broken down into more detail e.g. software and hardware . Alternatively no tag prefixes need be used at all.

In the illustrated embodiment if the user clicks on a tag the user interface applies a tag level filter for the selected tag to the displayed result. In one embodiment the user interface immediately finds all titles that have the selected tag and re draws the tags view to show the tag distribution for the new titles set including for each tag a revised count of the number of titles to which the tag relates under the tag level filter. A user can click on multiple tags in succession to apply a set of tag filters to be applied to the tags view. In one embodiment the user interface allows a user to negatively select dictionaries or tags specifically excluding all titles or queries that match a particular condition e.g. using a Control click user interface action .

In one embodiment the tag filter buttons are dynamically added to the interface when the user selects tags in the tags view . In one embodiment once the buttons are added to the interface the user can select a tag filter button to set the respective filter off and remove the button from the interface. As filters are added or removed the tags view is updated to reflect tags for titles selected by the respective filters.

The interface as displayed additionally provides a column that displays the deliverability of the query from which the title derives. In the illustrated embodiment all of the titles display the code Y indicating all titles were flagged as deliverable. If the display included titles with the code N i.e. flagged as not deliverable such titles could be excluded from the display by selecting Deliv Yes from the deliverability drop down list .

The interface as displayed additionally provides columns that allow a user to flag the title as being Good or Bad . A title could be considered Good if it closely expresses the user s intent in searching for potential titles. A title could be considered Bad if it runs contrary to user s intent in searching for potential titles. If the user wishes to display only titles checked as Good the user can select Good Yes from the Good Title drop down list . If the user wishes to display only titles not checked as Good the user can select Good No from the Good Title drop down list .

At any time while in the titles view the user can swap back to the tags view . To the extent any actions the user has taken in the titles view has selected a subset of titles for display such as suppressing the display of non deliverable titles or titles not checked as Good the tag display is updated to reflect the tag set of the selected titles including revised counts for each displayed tag.

At any time while the in any of the views tabs supported by the user interface the user can chose to generate a text representation of the tag filters and freeform rules the user has selected. For example a text representation of the selection criteria and in could be HasTag 1 f about AND NOT HasTag 1 i amounts AND contains free .

In the illustrated embodiment the rule suggest tab displays two groups of two view panes each displaying rules based on text selection criteria and two view panes displaying rules based on parts of speech patterns . In the illustrated embodiment each rule is displayed along with a count of how many titles match that rule. In one embodiment the first view within each group is sorted by descending frequency i.e. how many titles match that rule. The second view within each group is sorted by descending uniqueness score which is a measure of how specific a rule is. The more words or parts of speech that are used in a rule the more unique that rule is. In one embodiment StartsWith and EndsWith functions are considered to be more specific than the Contains function and so words associated with these functions contribute to a higher uniqueness score. In one embodiment the user can select any of the suggested rules to be applied to the tag and title set that is currently displayed by the keyword analyzer. In one embodiment the selected rule is moved to the freeform rule entry text box and processed as a freeform rule entered by the user.

The full text of the similar titles is displayed. As additional aids to navigating the results the last word of each title and the parts of speech comprising the individual words of the title are displayed. The interface as displayed additionally provides columns that allow the user to flag the displayed titles as being Good or Bad . In one embodiment the user can use the similar titles selected as Good and Bad to generate suggested rules by clicking on the suggested rules tab .

It should be understood that the various embodiments of the keyword analyzer disclosed above are illustrative and not limiting. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the functions provided by the keyword analyzer can be implemented in a variety of other ways that provide additional advantages.

For example in one embodiment the keyword analyzer provides the capability to receive input relating to an input file from groups of people on client devices coupled to a network e.g. a poll of the public or group of employees . For example the keyword analyzer could receive Good and Bad designations for titles from a group of content selectors. Such capabilities could be provided via for example a shared keyword analyzer session. Alternatively as an input file is analyzed by a given selector when a title is tagged as Good or Bad a master copy of the file could be tagged with Good and Bad metadata tags and other content selectors are able to view the Good and Bad tags via the keyword analyzer interface.

In another example in one embodiment one or more functions provided by the keyword analyzer through the user interface could be provided through automated server processes. For example the keyword analyzer could support a scripted mode where a script defines a set of operations e.g. read a file select a set of tags and flag the selected tags as Good .

In the system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller and display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s . Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory and volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In one embodiment a data processing system as illustrated in is used to implement one or more of the content title selection servers and content title editing stations of .

In some embodiments one or more servers of the system can be replaced with the service of a peer to peer network of a plurality of data processing systems or a network of distributed computing systems. The peer to peer network or a distributed computing system can be collectively viewed as a server data processing system. In some embodiments functions provided by the keyword analyzer may be supported by a plurality of data processing systems where individual functions provided by the keyword analyzer are implemented on separate data processing systems.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented via the microprocessor s and or the memory . For example the functionalities described can be partially implemented via hardware logic in the microprocessor s and partially using the instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the microprocessor s without additional instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the instructions stored in the memory for execution by one or more general purpose microprocessor s . Thus the disclosure is not limited to a specific configuration of hardware and or software.

In this description various functions and operations may be described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code by a processor such as a microprocessor. Alternatively or in combination the functions and operations can be implemented using special purpose circuitry with or without software instructions such as using an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Embodiments can be implemented using hardwired circuitry without software instructions or in combination with software instructions. Thus the techniques are limited neither to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system middleware service delivery platform SDK Software Development Kit component web services or other specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. Invocation interfaces to these routines can be exposed to a software development community as an API Application Programming Interface . The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others.

In general a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides e.g. stores information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

