---

title: Brokering optimized resource supply costs in host cloud-based network using predictive workloads
abstract: Embodiments relate to brokering optimized resource supply costs in a host cloud-based network using predictive workloads. In aspects, a set of usage histories can store patterns for users in a host cloud-based network recording the consumption of processor, memory, storage, operating system, application, or other resources subscribed to by the user. The operator of the cloud management system hosting the workloads of one or more users can track the aggregate user histories reflecting those workloads, and analyze them in terms of different time periods over which demands for resources may intensity or relax. The cloud management system can examine those workload patterns, and generate a set of predictively re-assigned workloads to be supported by different sets of resource servers during offpeak and/or other periods. The workload realignment to different resource servers can permit the operator of the cloud management system and/or other cloud provider to realize cost savings or other benefits by procuring resources on a predictive basis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563479&OS=09563479&RS=09563479
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09563479
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101130
---
The invention relates generally to systems and methods for brokering optimized resource supply costs in a host cloud based network using predictive workloads and more particularly to platforms and techniques for generating sets of predictively re assigned workloads that can leverage better operating costs or other factors for cloud operators whose users demonstrate reduced resource demand and or other consumption behavior at offpeak or other times.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets social networking sites and many other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or cloud management system to perform intended tasks services or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to or merchandise for an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Typically when a user utilizes a cloud the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated that the cloud processes are functioning properly and or efficiently that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes and so forth. Due in part to the user s requirements and overall usage of the cloud the user may have many applications and or processes instantiated in a cloud at any given instant and the user s deployment of virtual machines software and other resources can change dynamically over time. In cases the user may also utilize multiple independent clouds to support the user s cloud deployment. That user may further instantiate and use multiple applications or other software or services inside or across multiple of those cloud boundaries and those resources may be used or consumed by multiple or differing end user groups in those different cloud networks.

In terms of the procurement of processor memory storage and or other resources required to support one or more sets of users the cloud management system of a set of host clouds may locate and install or provide those resources on a subscription marketplace and or other basis. For users whose resource demands demonstrates a timer dependent pattern such as a relaxation of resource consumption during overnight offpeak and other hours or periods it could be advantageous to time or predict the need to procure resources based on known consumption behavior. In aspects a cloud operator could scale down or otherwise adjust the resources procured from a set of cloud resource servers if service level needs are known or could be predicted in advance permitting potentially lower cost reduced storage needs decreased failover or rollover capacity and or otherwise altered configurations of the resources needed to support users in the operator s set of host clouds. It may be desirable to provide systems and methods for brokering optimized resource supply costs in a host cloud based network using predictive workloads in which workloads of users can be predictively re assigned or shifted to leverage advantageous cloud support conditions in varying resource servers based on estimated support requirements or levels in predetermined time periods.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of hardware software services and or resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can at a hardware level comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process service or other resource. For example one group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve an operating system and or components utilities or interfaces related to that operating system to deliver to a virtual target and instantiate that machine with an image of that operating system. Another group of servers in set of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time memory allocations communications ports or links and or other resources to supply a defined level of processing power or throughput for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve applications or other software to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications software or services. Other types of resource servers can be used to support one or more clouds .

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers and or other hardware or software resources used to support one or more clouds along with the set of instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware services and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all servers in set of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new or updated set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The virtual machines can be instantiated as virtual client machines virtual appliance machines consisting of special purpose or dedicated task machines as understood in the art and or as other virtual machines or entities. The request to invoke and instantiate the desired complement of virtual machines can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested in that platform s associated cloud. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of hardware software service and or other resources necessary to instantiate that complement of virtual machines or other resources. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example and as noted comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts Web pages and or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated collection of machines services or processes is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day a month or other interval of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount or interval of time. For instance a user could request a set of virtual provisioning servers and other resources until a target software update is completed on a population of corporate or other machines. The user s instantiation request can in further regards specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify a specific minimum or maximum amount of processing power or input output I O throughput that the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their desired set of applications or services. Other parameters and settings can be used to instantiate and operate a set of virtual machines software and other resources in the host clouds. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others. It may be noted that user herein can include a network level user or subscriber to cloud based networks such as a corporation government entity educational institution and or other entity including individual users and groups of users.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build those machines or resources have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. Generally the cloud management system can select servers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines services or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as optical storage or hard disk arrays may or may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in one or more clouds can be accessed and leveraged as needed. For example other software or services that are provided outside of one or more clouds acting as hosts and are instead hosted by third parties outside the boundaries of those clouds can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines or users. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the one or more clouds acting as hosts or native clouds for instance on an on demand subscribed or event triggered basis.

With the resource requirements identified for building a network of virtual machines the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour or day. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis for instance over a defined window of time. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation of virtual machines at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours. Other timing and resource configurations are possible.

After interrogating and receiving resource commitments from the set of resource servers the cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the user s requested virtual machine service or other resource. The cloud management system for the one or more clouds acting as the destination for the virtual machines can then coordinate the integration of the identified group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the identified group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population services or other cloud based resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table or other record that identifies the various sets of resource servers in set of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the set of instantiated virtual machines services or processes. The selected sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. In aspects different sets of servers in set of resource servers can be selected to deliver different resources to different users and or for different applications. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to or otherwise supporting the set of instantiated machines services or processes.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process to instantiate the virtual machines processes services and or other resources to be hosted and delivered from the one or more clouds . The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each registered server in set of resource servers indicating a status or state regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various registered resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth services and or applications or other software prepared to be served and delivered.

As shown for example in after coordination of the sources and configuration of resources including the hardware layer selected software and or other resources the cloud management system can then instantiate a set of virtual machines and or other appliances services processes and or entities based on the resources supplied by servers within set of resource servers registered to support the one or more clouds in a multiple cloud network . According to aspects cloud management system can access or interact with a virtualization module platform or service to instantiate and operate set of virtual machines such as the kernel based virtualization manager KVM available from Red Hat Inc. of Raleigh N.C. or others. In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 20 000 or other numbers or instances of virtual machines to populate one or more clouds and be made available to users of that cloud or clouds. In aspects users may access the one or more clouds via the Internet or other public or private networks. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated virtual machine population. Additionally the cloud management system can store data related to the duration of the existence or operation of each operating virtual machine as well as the collection of resources utilized by the overall set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage each user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that operates a virtual machine or service in the set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them with associated access rights and security provisions. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that each user can perform such as the ability to provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and or other privileges entitlements or actions. The cloud management system associated with the virtual machine s of each user can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the resources and services consumed by the user or set of users. In aspects of the present teachings the tracking of usage activity for one or more user including network level user and or end user can be abstracted from any one cloud to which that user is registered and made available from an external or independent usage tracking service capable of tracking software and other usage across an arbitrary collection of clouds as described herein. In embodiments the cloud management system of an associated cloud can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription and or billing records for a user that has launched those machines. In aspects tracking records can in addition or instead be generated by an internal service operating within a given cloud. Other subscription billing entitlement and or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines to be made available to users via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Those users can for instance access set of instantiated virtual machines via a browser interface via an application server such as a JAVA server via an application programming interface API and or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with its associated cloud management system and the registered servers in set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls protocols and or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud in one or more clouds or between those or other clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the one or more clouds . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other services machines or resources may not depend in any degree on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront messaging site and or any other application. Likewise one or more clouds can also be formed in whole or part from resources hosted or maintained by the users of those clouds themselves.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical or virtual level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify install or configure any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes services and or other resources can in one regard therefore be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the set of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support the set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from a collection of abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications. Conversely the users of the set of instantiated virtual machines can also change or update the resource or operational specifications of those machines at any time. The cloud management system and or other logic can then adapt the allocated resources for that population of virtual machines or other entities on a dynamic basis.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiate virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the one or more cloud management systems associated with those machines can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example install initiate suspend or terminate instances of applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can similarly monitor one or more operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate an application identified as infected or a virtual machine detected to have entered a fault state. The cloud management system can likewise manage the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a network wide or other collective basis for instance to push the delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines or subsets of machines. Other network management processes can be carried out by cloud management system and or other associated logic.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same time at overlapping times and or at successive times or intervals. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines as part of the set of instantiated virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different virtual machines such as may be requested by the same or different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in one or more clouds hosting one or more sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets or subsets of virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud or other sub domain or partition of the one or more clouds acting as host. The subdivision of one or more clouds into distinct transient sub clouds sub components or other subsets which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the same one or more clouds . In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud in one or more clouds can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines services and or processes generated in a second third or further cloud in one or more clouds comprising a multiple cloud network . The cloud management system of a first cloud of one or more clouds can interface with the cloud management system of a second third or further cloud of one or more clouds to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines services and or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud on one or more clouds can in aspects track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization government and or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application service and or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In aspects the cloud management system and or other logic or service that manages configures and tracks cloud activity can be configured to track and identify aggregate usage patterns of one or more users and relate those patterns to the available set or sets of resource servers to generate a predictive re balancing or re distribution of the servers and resources that will be required to support differing workloads over different time periods. In those regards shows an illustrative network configuration in which systems and methods for brokering optimized resource supply costs in host cloud based network using predictive workloads can be implemented according to various embodiments. In embodiments as shown one or more users can operate a user premise such as a local area network with a set of client machines and or other machines or resources. In aspects the user can in addition or instead operate one or more sets of virtual machines appliances and or other virtual entities not shown in a set of host clouds . In aspects the set of host clouds can include a set of diverse and or otherwise unrelated cloud based networks to which the user or users can subscribe for various resources under various subscription terms criteria service level agreements and or other conditions which can be recorded or reflected in a set of subscription parameters . The set of subscription parameters can for instance be stored in the cloud store hosted or accessed by a cloud management system and or in other storage resources or locations.

In aspects the consumption of resources in the set of host clouds the assignment of user workloads to specific support servers in the set of support servers generation of related billing events and other workload and subscription related activities can be tracked and managed by an workload management module which can be hosted in the cloud management system and or in other locations resources or services. According to aspects the workload management module can communicate with the set of resource servers including hardware support servers and or other resource providers such as the vendors of software such as operating systems applications utilities and or other programs services and or related resources. The cloud management system can maintain part or all of the terms conditions limits criteria stipulations and or other parameters of the user s subscription to one or more resources hosted or provisioned in the set of host clouds and for instance reflected in the set of subscription parameters . In embodiments the relationship between the user premise when present and the set of host clouds can be configured to operate on a rollover or failover basis for instance to provide instances of virtual machines for the user when the installed hardware and associated resources of the user premise is insufficient to support immediate processing throughput and or other demands. In aspects the user can operate virtual machines virtual appliances and or other entities in the set of host clouds and each host cloud in the set of host clouds can capture and store a set of local usage data reflecting those operations. The set of local usage data can record the consumption or use of resources in a local host cloud in the set of host clouds such as the number of instances of software including operating systems and applications processor resources memory resources communications resources storage resources and or other elements or resources. The cloud management system workload management module and or other logic or service can periodically receive the set of local usage data and or updates to that information from one or more host clouds in the set of host clouds . The receipt of the set of local usage data or any portion of the set of local usage data can be performed in aspects on a pull or demand basis where the workload management module and or other logic can issue commands or instructions to one or more host clouds in the set of host clouds and receive that data back from the interrogated cloud or clouds. In aspects the set of local usage data can be transmitted to the workload management module on a push basis for instance on a predetermined event triggered and or other basis initiated by one or more of the host clouds in set of host clouds themselves. Other channels schedules and techniques for the collection of the set of local usage data from any one or more of the set of host clouds can be used.

After receipt of the set of local usage data any portion or component of the set of local usage data and or updates to the same the workload management module can collect and aggregate the set of local usage data from the various host clouds and organize that data in a set of aggregate usage history data . The set of aggregate usage history data can reflect recent and or accumulated usage consumption by the subject user s in all of the set of host clouds over comparatively short term periods or intervals such as minutes one or more hours one day a number of days a week and or over other periods. In aspects the workload management module can collect the set of local usage data regardless of whether each of those clouds is configured to communicate with each other or not. In aspects the set of aggregate usage history data can present to the workload management module and or other logic the combined resource consumption by the user across the user premise and or all operating virtual machines or entities in the set of host clouds on an hour by hour and or other relatively short term basis. In aspects cloud management system the workload management module and or other logic or service can operate on the set of aggregate usage history data to generate a set of predictively re assigned workloads that can be advantageously shifted or re distributed to different support servers in the set of support servers over different time periods to offer the cloud operator or other entity greater flexibility in procurement costs service levels and or other factors or conditions.

More particularly and as for instance shown in in aspects a user or set of users can generate and execute a set of operating workloads that are constructed configured and or otherwise instantiated from resources provided or delivered by the set of resource servers . As described herein the resources provided by the set of resource servers can be or include any hardware software and or service required to execute the set of operating workloads . The set of operating workloads can in aspects include the total set of executing operating systems applications input output I O operations storage operations computational tasks and or other workloads or compute or communication activity carried out by the virtual machines virtual appliances and or other entities of one or more users hosted in the set of host clouds and or in other locations. In a given workload assignment period merely illustratively at 1 00 p.m. the supporting servers in set of resource servers and or other grid or infrastructure being used or operated to support the one or more users in set of host clouds can have a given distribution or arrangement. The distribution or arrangement of those support resource s at a given time can be determined or partly determined by factors including the set of subscription parameters governing resource usage and cloud operations for a given user or users along with other factors. In aspects illustrative sets of resource procurement parameters by which a cloud operator or other entity can identify and acquire resources to support the set of host clouds can include merely illustratively any one or more of a subscription cost a minimum number of software images to be deployed in the set of host clouds a maximum number of software images to be deployed in the set of set of host clouds an operating system specification a software application specification a minimum processor throughput specification a maximum processor throughput specification a minimum memory amount specification a maximum memory amount specification a minimum storage capacity specification a maximum storage capacity specification a minimum bandwidth specification a maximum bandwidth specification a minimum set of communications ports specification a maximum set of communications ports specification an appliance specification a service level agreement specification and or any services in support of any of the foregoing as well as other services provided to or via the set of host clouds . Such services can include also merely illustratively services such clustering services identity management services backup services billing and administrative services security services and or other services in support of the set of host clouds and or associated users or entities.

In aspects according to the present teachings the cloud management system workload management module and or other logic or service can examine the set of operating workloads and generate a predictive mapping or transition of those workloads to a different set or subset of the set of support servers for one or more workload assignment period in the future. As shown for instance in the cloud management system workload management module and or other logic can generate a resulting set of predictively re assigned workloads whose supporting processor memory storage operating system application and or other hardware software or service requirements are met by different support servers in set of resource servers and or other resource providers at one or more workload assignment period the procurement cost and or conditions of which may be preferable or desirable to the operator of the cloud management system and or other entity. Thus at a workload assignment period of 12 00 midnight to 6 00 a.m. during weekdays or at other times a user such as a banking or retail entity may demonstrate low or bursty demand for processor memory storage operating system application and or other resources during which period the operator of the cloud management system and or other cloud provider may by default be obligated to procure or obtain those resources from a default set of resource servers . In cases the cost to the operator of the cloud management system and or other provider or entity may be greater than necessary if for instance that entity continues to pay or accrue resource acquisition costs even when the fully subscribed or maintained level of hardware software service and or other resources are not being consumed in such cases and others the cloud management system workload management module and or other logic or service can predict or project a reduced workload for that banking or retail entity for the hours of 12 00 midnight to 6 00 a.m. and analyze sets of alternative resource servers providers and or other resource sources which could deliver the same or an adjusted level of the same resources under more advantageous costs and or conditions. In aspects with the benefit of reducing and or otherwise adjusting claims on the resources available from the set of resource servers the operator of the cloud management system could in addition or alternatively proceed to insert additional workloads illustrated as Workloads O P Q into the set of predictively re assigned workloads to more fully extract or consume resources which that operator or entity has already procured or will procure. Other decision logic rules filters criteria and or factors can be used to migrate re distribute change update reconfigure and or otherwise manage or alter the set of workloads from the set of operating workloads and or other workload source on a time varying and or predictive basis to enhance resource acquisition costs and or other conditions.

In the cloud management system workload management module and or other logic or service can generate a set of predictively re assigned workloads based on for instance the set of predictive workloads the aggregate resource usage history the one or more workload assignment periods information relating to the availability pricing service levels and or other parameters related to the resources provided by the set of resource servers and or other data or information. In aspects the set of predictively re assigned workloads can include for instance a specification or indication to move the provisioning of processor and memory resources to a second operator of a group of servers in the set of resource servers from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. from a first operator who provided or is scheduled to provide the same resources from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. In aspects the shift of the selected providers in or from the set of resource servers can be made based on business rules or logic such as to select a new resource host in those servers if the cost of those resources is at least 10 less than an original source during one or more workload assignment periods while still providing assurance of at least 90 of required service levels with options for re clouding or rollover of any needed shortfall. Other logic functions and or rules can be used to identify or generate the set of predictively re assigned workloads .

In the cloud management system workload management module and or other logic or service can migrate and or distribute one or more or all of the set of predictively re assigned workloads to one or more selected servers in the set of resource servers for the one or more workload assignment periods . In aspects the cloud management system workload management module and or other logic or service can initiate that migration shift and or re distribution of the user s set of operating workloads and or other executing applications services and or processes to a new or different set of subset of the set of resource servers using configuration commands transmitted via one or more networks and or other network management channels connections and or operations. In the cloud management system workload management module and or other logic or service can capture the metered or other subscription or support costs and or other factors related to operating the set of predictively re assigned workloads in the selected set or subset of support servers during the one or more workload re assignment period . In the cloud management system workload management module and or other logic or service can capture and or record additional usage data from the set of predictively re assigned workloads and store that data to the set of aggregate usage history as appropriate. In the cloud management system workload management module and or other logic or service can return the set of predictively re assigned workloads to the original set of resource servers from which the re assigned workloads were migrated for instance after the expiration of one or more workload assignment period . In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform in embodiments the cloud management system and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers services or systems. Similarly while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines in embodiments one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of instantiated virtual machines and or other machines entities services or resources. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

