---

title: Fuel cell assembly
abstract: A passive fuel cell assembly, in which there is neither air pump, nor fuel pump, is comprised of a plurality of bi-cell units. Each bi-cell unit includes a first cell and a second cell, and each cell includes an electrode of a first polarity and an electrode of a second polarity, with an ion permeable membrane disposed therebetween. The bi-cell unit further includes a fuel container which comprises a housing defining a fuel chamber having a first and second open surface. The first and second cells are disposed on opposite sides so that electrodes of each cell having the first polarity are disposed in fluid contact with the fuel chamber. The assembly further includes an oxidizer supply member disposed between adjacent pairs of bi-cell units. The oxidizer supply member includes an oxidizer chamber having four sides to take in air, and having first and second open surfaces. The oxidizer supply member is disposed so that electrodes of the second polarity of adjacent bi-cell units are in fluid contact with the chamber of the oxidizer supply member. The various bi-cell units may be electrically interconnected in mixed series parallel relationship to obtain long operational life. The fuel cell bi-cell assembly may be configured to operate in conjunction with a liquid fuel such as an alcohol, and using air as an oxidizer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08383290&OS=08383290&RS=08383290
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08383290
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
This Invention is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 12 104 657 filed Apr. 17 2008 and now abandoned.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates generally to fuel cells. More specifically the invention relates to a fuel cell assembly having a modular bi cell design. In specific instances the invention relates to a passive fuel cell assembly in which there is neither air pump nor fuel pump and which is adaptable for use with organic fuels in a direct air breathing mode.

Fuel cells are electrochemical devices in which a fuel and an oxidizer react to directly generate an electrical current. Fuel cells are silent and clean in operation and can provide power sources which have a high power to weight ratio. As a consequence fuel cells are attractive energy sources for a large number of applications.

One class of fuel cells utilizes hydrogen as a fuel. The chemistry of such systems is relatively simple however their operation requires the storage and delivery of a gaseous fuel which can complicate the system. Another class of fuel cells utilizes organic liquids as a fuel. These liquids typically comprise methanol or other alcohols. Fuel storage and delivery in such systems is relatively simple. In some instances liquid fuel cells utilize air as an oxidizer and may be configured so that they are air breathing thereby eliminating the need for pumps or other gas delivery systems. Such liquid fuel air breathing fuel cells can provide compact mechanically simple power sources. However presently implemented fuel cell bi cell configurations have not been able to fully achieve all of the potential benefits of such systems.

One approach in the prior art to the fabrication of fuel bi cell designs utilizes the bipolar plate design wherein a single bipolar plate serves as a current collector for both anode and cathode electrodes in two adjacent single cells. One surface of the plate is in contact with an anode of the cell and the other with the cathode. When electricity passes through the bipolar plate electrical polarization occurs between the two sides thereof These plates are typically made of graphite but in some instances they are fabricated from a metal sheet. The bipolar plate design provides a compact volume and high internal conductivity together with a rigid bi celled structure but it has the disadvantages of requiring precise thermal and liquid flow management which generally requires the use of fuel and air pumps. Consequently such designs are expensive and difficult to operate. Some examples of prior art showing bipolar plate designs of fuel bi cells are found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 776 624 5 496 655 5 798 188 and 6 284 401.

In other instances the prior art has utilized fuel cell bi cells with non bipolar plates. In systems of this type each current collector will serve only as an anode or cathode electrode in the fuel cell and as a consequence each cell in the bi cell operates independently. The disadvantages of the bipolar design are high internal resistance fragile bi cell structure low power output and fuel leakage. These non bipolar designs are primarily used for hydrogen air fuel cells and only occasionally in liquid fuel cell systems. Some prior art examples of non bipolar designs are found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 709 961 5 958 616 6 132 895 6 268 077 6 194 095 and 5 958 616. In most instances such non bipolar designs are configured so that the single cells are arranged in a plane and this type of a design is generally detrimental to achieving high power density outputs.

In most instances high density fuel cell bi cells require the use of pumps for delivering air or other oxidant thereto. The prior art has implemented several designs in an attempt to make fuel cell bi cells directly air breathing so as to minimize cost and weight. However prior art air breathing bi cell assemblies have been found to be fragile and prone to fuel leaking and or have poor electrical contact between the electrodes and current collectors. Some prior art approaches to the fabrication of direct air breathing fuel cells are found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 268 077 5 645 950 5 514 486 5 595 834 5 935 725 6 040 075 and 5 709 961.

As will be described hereinbelow the present invention provides a fuel cell bi cell assembly which is simple in construction rugged and efficient. The bi cell assembly of the present invention provides a very high power density and may be configured to operate with a liquid fuel such as an alcohol and to be directly air breathing. Furthermore the system of the present invention is modular and allows for ready configuration of a series of fuel cells into mixed series parallel arrays so as to allow for the optimum control of the current and voltage output of the bi cell and long operational life. These and other advantages of the invention will be apparent from the drawings discussion and description which follow.

Disclosed herein is a modular fuel cell assembly comprised of a number of different subunits. The fuel cell assembly includes a plurality of bi cell units and each bi cell unit comprises a first cell and a second cell. Each of the cells includes an electrode of a first polarity an electrode of a second polarity and an ion permeable membrane disposed therebetween. The bi cell units each further include a fuel container which comprises a housing defining a fuel chamber having a first open surface and a second open surface. The open surfaces are in a spaced apart relationship and the bi cell unit is configured so that a first cell is disposed in contact with the first side of the fuel container so that the electrode of the first polarity of the first cell is in passive fluid communication with the first open surface of the container and the second cell is disposed in contact with the second side of the fuel container so that the electrode of the first polarity of the second cell is in passive fluid communication with the second open surface of the container.

The fuel cell assembly further includes at least one oxidizer supply member which is configured as a housing defining an oxidizer chamber having four sides to take air into it and having a first open surface and a second open surface in a spaced apart relationship therewith. The bi cell units are disposed so that an oxidizer supply member is disposed between and separates two bi cell units such that the first open surface on the oxidizer supply member is in fluid communication with an electrode of the second polarity of one of the bi cell units and the second open surface of the oxidizer supply member is in fluid communication with the electrode of the second polarity of another of the bi cell units. The electrodes of the cells may have current collectors associated therewith and by appropriately interconnecting these electrodes in mixed series parallel relationship the overall voltage and power output of the bi cell may be optimum controlled. The electrodes of the cells may have appropriate catalysts associated therewith so as to allow them to be used with liquid organic fuels.

The present invention comprises a modular fuel cell bi cell assembly which may be implemented in a variety of configurations. The assembly includes a number of bi cell units each of which includes a first and second cell and a fuel container. At least two of these bi cell units are combined with an oxidizer supply member to form a fuel cell bi cell assembly. A number of pairs of bi cell units and oxidizer supply members may be assembled into yet a larger fuel cell assembly. By mix parallel series interconnecting the electrodes of the bi cell voltage and current outputs may be optimum controlled for long operational life.

The principles of the invention will be explained with regard to one specific bi cell assembly and it is to be understood that this is for purposes of illustration and yet other variously configured assemblies may be implemented.

Referring now to there is shown a front elevational view of a basic cell of the type which is incorporated into the assembly of the present invention. Visible in is a portion of an ion permeable membrane as will be explained in greater detail hereinbelow. Also visible is a first current collector having an electrode tab portion associated therewith. A tab portion of a second current collector is also shown in . The current collectors and are designed with large and small holes alternatively arranged in the electrode plane to achieve a balance between fast reactants mass transfer and high electric conductivity of the electrode. is a cross sectional view of the cell of taken along line A A. As will be seen in the cell includes an ion conductive membrane which in particular embodiments comprises a proton conductive membrane. Such membranes are known in the art and in particular instances are comprised of perfluorosulfonate polymers. Such membranes are available from the DuPont Corporation under the trademark NAFION. As shown the membrane includes four holes therein. These holes will be utilized in the assembly of the finished fuel cell.

The cell of includes a first electrode which in this embodiment comprises the anode of the cell. As such this electrode is in contact with the fuel during the operation of the fuel cell. In this particular embodiment the electrode is comprised of a body of electrically conductive carbonized cloth which is coated on both sides thereof with carbon black and in this embodiment the anode includes a catalyst thereupon which is operative to facilitate the oxidation of the fuel during the operation of the fuel cell. The catalyst in this particular instance comprises a mixture of platinum ruthenium and osmium. The electrode is liquid porous and hydrophilic.

The cell further includes a second electrode which in this instance is the cathode of the cell. In the operation of the fuel cell oxygen is reduced at this electrode. The second electrode is also comprised of a body of carbonized cloth and may include a platinum catalyst thereupon. The carbon cloth of the second electrode has a hydrophilic coating of carbon black on the inner surface thereof which is the surface which is contact with the membrane . The outer surface of the electrode is uncoated and is hydrophobic. It is this side which contacts air during the operation of the cell.

Also visible in is the first current collector as described above and a second current collector . These current collectors are in electrical contact with the first and second electrodes and are fabricated from an electrically conductive material such as graphite or a thin metal sheet. As will be seen the current collectors are perforated so as to allow for fast passage of liquid and air there through and for high electric conductivity.

Referring now to there is shown a fuel container which is used in the assembly of the fuel cell bi cell. The fuel container is fabricated from an electrically insulating material such as a polymeric material although it may also be fabricated from an electrically conducting material provided that an electrically resistive coating is disposed thereupon. The fuel container is configured to define a fuel chamber therein. As will be seen from the fuel container includes a fuel inlet and a fuel outlet in passive fluid communication with the chamber which is designed not to use a fuel pump. In the embodiment the fuel container includes a number of projections configured as fingers which project into and subdivides the chamber . These projecting members define a fluid flow path through the chamber so that when fluid is flowed from the inlet through to the outlet it follows a sinuous path. The two sides of the fuel chamber are generally open and this is so as to allow fluid in the chamber to contact the electrodes of cells which are disposed on opposite faces thereof. It will also be noted that in this embodiment the projections have faces which are coplanar with the front and rear surfaces of the fuel container. It will also be noted that in the illustrated embodiment the fuel container includes four holes defined therethrough. Unlike common fuel cell design using fuel pump to drive fuel flow in a fast speed in the present passive fuel cell design there is a need to move the fuel very slowly and the fuel flow is driven by gravity at the anode.

As will be explained in more detail hereinbelow when the fuel cell bi cell assembly is formed a first cell generally similar to the cell of is disposed in contact with a first face of the fuel container so that the fuel contacting anode electrode thereof is in fluid communication with the fluid chamber . A second cell is disposed on the opposite face of the fuel container so that the fuel contacting anode electrode thereof is likewise in fluid communication with the fluid chamber . The projections in addition to defining a fluid path through the chamber functions to support and bias the cells. The cells are maintained in tight contact with the fuel container by bolts or other devices which pass through the holes in the fuel container and through corresponding holes in the membranes of the cells.

Referring now to there is shown an oxidizer supply member which is also utilized in the fabrication of the fuel cell bi cell assembly. The oxidizer supply member like the fuel container is electrically nonconductive and as such is fabricated from an electrically resistive material or from an electrically conductive material coated with a resistive coating. The oxidizer supply member includes a plurality of oxidizer chambers . A first plurality of air channels extend through the oxidizer supply member and allow for air flow between an external environment and the chambers where the air is taken from four sides. A second plurality of air channels extend at right angles to the first plurality and likewise establish communication with the chambers where the air is taken in from four sides. In this manner very good airflow through the chambers is maintained without the need for any pumps or other such delivery apparatus.

In the assembly of the fuel bi cell structure a first bi cell unit is disposed in contact with the oxidizer supply member so that the air contacting cathode electrode of that bi cell unit is in contact with a first face of the oxidizer supply member . Likewise a second bi cell unit is disposed so that its air contacting electrode cathode is likewise in contact with the air chambers . As is the case with the fuel container the oxidizer supply member also includes a series of holes which allow for passage of a bolt or other member which maintains the portions of the assembly in contact. The portions of the face of the oxidizer supply member between adjacent chambers support and bias the electrodes.

Referring now to there is shown an exploded perspective view of a fuel cell assembly with two bi cells in accord with the present invention. The assembly includes a first bi cell unit and a second bi cell unit as previously described. Each bi cell unit includes a first cell and a second cell disposed on opposite sides of a fuel container as previously described. An oxidizer supply member is disposed between an adjacent pair of bi cell units . Fuel is flowed through the fuel containers of the respective bi cell units and this fuel is in fluid contact with the anodes of the assembly. The cathodes are in communication with a source of air either by the oxidizer supply member which is disposed internally of the bi cell or by first and second end plates which cap off opposite ends of the bi cell. These end plates are perforated and allow for contact of the cathodes of the respective bi cell units with the ambient atmosphere. As noted above the assembly may be maintained in rigid contact by bolts or other such connecting members which pass through a series of holes and defined through the various components.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic depiction of a fuel cell bi cell assembly in accord with the present invention. The assembly includes a series of bi cell units as previously described. For purposes of illustration oxidizer supply members are not shown although it is to be understood that in accord with the teaching herein one such member will be disposed between each adjacent pair of bi cell units. For example one will be disposed between and another between and another between and and so forth. Further shown in is a fuel supply system wherein a fuel outlet of one bi cell unit is connected to a fuel inlet of the fuel container of an adjacent bi cell unit so that fluid can flow therebetween. Fluid flow may be accomplished by gravity. It is to be kept in mind that while shows fluid flowing in series between the various cells from inlet to outlet other patterns of fluid flow may be likewise be employed. For example fluid may flow in parallel through the units. Other flow arrangements such as mixed series parallel arrangements may likewise be employed.

Referring now to there is shown mix parallel series electrical interconnection of a fuel cell assembly with four bi cells. As will be seen from the upper figure in the mix parallel series collection gives lower voltage and higher current. The voltage of the assembly is equal to 0.5 cell number n cell voltage V and the current of the assembly is equal to 2 cell current I which is different from the common electric connection in a fuel cell assembly. As will be seen from the lower figure in in common series electric connection the voltage of the assembly is equal to cell number n cell voltage V and the current of the assembly is equal to cell current I 

A two bi cell air breathing fuel cell assembly was designed processed and assembled in accord with the foregoing principles. This four cell bi cell used ambient air for an oxidant. Air delivery was by spontaneous convection and no external pumping was required. Methanol was used as the liquid fuel. The fuel cell bi cell was prepared utilizing NAFION 117 membrane material purchased from the DuPont Corporation. The membrane material was pretreated in boiling water with 3 HOfor two hours then boiled in 1 M HSOfor two hours. Thereafter the membranes were washed with water and stored under water until utilized.

Cathodes were prepared utilizing one sided carbon cloth obtained from E Tek which was coated with 93 by weight platinum black catalyst obtained from Johnson Matthey and 7 by weight of a NAFION binder. Catalyst loading was 4 mg cmof unsupported platinum black for the cathode. The anode was prepared from two sided carbon cloth obtained from E Tek. This electrode had 85 by weight of a PtRuOs catalyst which was prepared in house and 15 of a NAFION binder. Catalyst loading was 3 mg cm. The cell assemblies were prepared by hot pressing the anode cathode and NAFION membrane together at 125 C.

The current collectors were comprised of thin titanium sheets. The fuel containers and air chambers and end plates were fabricated from glass loaded polymer and were of the general configuration illustrated in the foregoing figures. Teflon sealing gaskets were included between the components of the assembly and the bi cell was mechanically stabilized by use of four bolts.

The thus prepared fuel cell bi cell assembly was then put into operation with the cells electrically connected in series. The fuel containers were charged with methanol and air was supplied by spontaneous convection. The bi cell was maintained at a temperature of 30 C. and open circuit voltage was measured at 2.6 V. shows the discharge performance of the bi cell. The bi cell voltage decreases with increases in discharge current and the output power increases with discharge current until reaching a maximum power point then decreases as current further increases. A peak power of 360 mW was obtained.

The foregoing is illustrative of some specific embodiments of this invention. As was discussed above other embodiments modifications and variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art. The foregoing illustrations examples and discussion are illustrative of specific embodiments of the invention but are not meant to be limitations upon the practice thereof. It is the following claims including all equivalents which define the scope of the invention.

