---

title: Systems and methods for permissions-based profile repository service
abstract: In some embodiments, provided is a method that includes storing, by a profile repository service, respective profile information for one or more users. The method includes receiving, by the profile repository service, permissions input from a particular one of the one or more users specifying content of the particular user's profile information accessible to content providers. Further, the method included receiving, by the profile repository service, a request from a content provider for profile information for the particular user, wherein the content provider is distinct from the profile repository service. The method also includes providing, by the profile repository service in response to the request, profile information for the particular user to the content provider, wherein the profile information is provided according to the permissions input from the particular user, and wherein the profile information is used to generate content delivered to the particular user remotely from the profile repository service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521778&OS=08521778&RS=08521778
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08521778
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100831
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 349 725 titled Systems and Methods for Permissions Based Profile Repository Service inventors Joshua G. James and Brett M. Error filed May 28 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Many different outlets are used to deliver marketing information such as advertisements to consumers. For example television shows movies magazines newspapers web page and e mail often include some form of advertisements that are intended to be viewed or read by an audience that receives the content. Typically the advertisements are provided in content in an attempt to reach a certain demographic that is expected to consume the content. Thus common advertisements are delivered to a broad audience in hopes of reaching at least a few individuals that are interested in the content of the advertisement. For example advertisements are often paired up with a complementary type of content in an attempt to target a certain demographic. In some instances content providers go a step further attempting to identify an individual user and tailor the advertisements to target that specific consumer. For example targeting internet users based on their behavior demographic or preferences is growing in importance as advertisers attempt to improve efficiency and effectiveness of online advertising. Unfortunately gathering the required marketing information about a user is often difficult and fraught with privacy concerns. In an attempt to provide advertisements that a consumer is more likely to respond to advertisers are pressuring publishers and ad networks to learn as much as possible about individual consumers such that advertisements can be tailored to the individual. In the internet arena this is commonly done by observing the internet content customers view visit and trying to extrapolate information about the consumer such that advertisements provided to that consumer can be narrowly tailored to their demographic. Unfortunately demographic information available to advertisers is limited. Even base attributes like gender are difficult to obtain. For example although some techniques attempt to triangulate geographic location address of an internet user and thereby extrapolate a socioeconomic status of the respective household these methods are unreliable at best. In an effort to improve the acquisition of demographic information some organizations track or have attempted to track customers across different websites.

Tracking customer behavior however can lead to serious customer objections with regard to their privacy. A user may be concerned about big brother observing and tracking their behavior and may become even more concerned that they do not know what information has been collected. For example internet users often express concern that as information accrues individual are less anonymous and more easily identified personally. While many privacy pundits do not object to anonymously tracking individuals within the confines of a single website they grow very concerned when that tracking extends to include several websites or the Internet at large. As a result content providers and advertisers are often limited to conservative approaches for identifying consumer demographics that provide limited data relating to their customers and attempts to be more aggressive in obtaining the demographic information is receiving objections from consumers.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide a technique for efficiently acquiring and providing user profile information for customers.

Various embodiments of methods and apparatus for a permissions based profile repository service are described. In some embodiments provided is a method that includes storing by a profile repository service respective profile information for one or more users. The method includes receiving by the profile repository service permissions input from a particular one of the one or more users specifying content of the particular user s profile information accessible to content providers. Further the method included receiving by the profile repository service a request from a content provider for profile information for the particular user wherein the content provider is distinct from the profile repository service. The method also includes providing by the profile repository service in response to the request profile information for the particular user to the content provider wherein the profile information is provided according to the permissions input from the particular user and wherein the profile information is used to generate content delivered to the particular user remotely from the profile repository service.

In some embodiments provided is a user profile repository system that includes a user profile repository. The user profile repository includes a profile repository for storing respective profile information for one or more a user interface for receiving permissions input from a particular one of the one or more users specifying content of the particular user s profile information accessible to content providers and a content provider interface. The content provider interface for receiving a request from a content provider for profile information for the particular user and providing profile information for the particular user to the content provider. The content provider is distinct from the user profile repository. Further the profile information is provided according to the permissions input from the particular user and the profile information is used to generate content delivered to the particular user remotely from the user profile repository.

In some embodiments provided is a non transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions stored thereon wherein the program instructions are executable to cause a computer system to perform a method that includes storing by a profile repository service respective profile information for one or more users. The method includes receiving by the profile repository service permissions input from a particular one of the one or more users specifying content of the particular user s profile information accessible to content providers. Further the method included receiving by the profile repository service a request from a content provider for profile information for the particular user wherein the content provider is distinct from the profile repository service. The method also includes providing by the profile repository service in response to the request profile information for the particular user to the content provider wherein the profile information is provided according to the permissions input from the particular user and wherein the profile information is used to generate content delivered to the particular user remotely from the profile repository service.

While the invention is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to. As used throughout this application the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly indicates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an element includes a combination of two or more elements.

As described in more detail below provided in some embodiments are techniques for a user profile based marketing system and method. In some embodiments a user profile repository system stores a plurality of user profiles that can be accessed by one or more content providers e.g. advertisers to acquire user profile information for a particular user. In certain embodiments each of the user profiles corresponding to a particular user. In some embodiments each user profile is created and controlled by their corresponding user. That is a user may knowingly and voluntarily create and modify their user profile as well as control access to the user profile by other entities such as content providers. In some embodiments the user profile information stored in the user profile includes marketing information such as demographic information e.g. name age location and or marketing preferences e.g. a preferred form of contact such as e mail . In certain embodiments a content provider may access a user profile associated with a user and may provide content e.g. targeted advertising to the user e.g. a consumer customer in accordance with user profile information provided in the user profile. Thus a content provider may be able to provide targeted advertisements based on presumably accurate information provided by the user as opposed to potentially inaccurate user profile information assimilated based on tracking or other techniques. In some embodiments the user profile repository system and the user profiles stored therein are accessible by a plurality of different content providers. Thus a single user profile may influence content provided to the user by a plurality of different content providers. For example both an internet provider and a cable television provider may access the user profile enabling targeting advertising to the user while surfing the web and watching television. Accordingly a user may effectively control marketing content delivered to them by voluntarily knowingly providing marketing information to a centralized location accessible by a plurality of content provider. Such techniques may help advertisers more effectively reach their target audience may enable content provider publishers to realize greater value for advertising and may help users to receive advertisements that are interest to them as opposed to random advertisements that are of no interest to the user.

Turning now to the figures as a block diagram that illustrates a marketing system in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present technique. In the illustrated embodiment system includes a user profile repository system service a user and a content provider communicatively coupled to one another via a network .

In some embodiments each user profile is associated with a particular user and includes user profile information associated with the particular user. User profile information associated with each user profile may be provided by the respective user e.g. user and or may be assimilated based on permissions granted by the respective user. In some embodiments user profile information stored in association with each user profile is controlled by the respective user. For example user may knowingly and voluntarily add or remove user profile information or even create or delete the entire user profile. Thus user may have complete control over user profile information associated with their user profile.

In some embodiments user profile information includes marketing information such as demographic information associated with the user. For example user profile information may include a user s geographic location gender age interest hobbies or dislikes. In some embodiments user profile information includes other marketing information such as marketing preferences. Marketing preferences may include an indication of user preferred forms of receiving marketing content e.g. internet e mail television phone mail radio . In some embodiments user profile information includes user defined permissions. Permissions may include permissions provided approved by a user that specify what user profile information is to be shared with entities of system and how. For example permissions may specify which content providers have access to some or all of the user profile information. In some embodiments the permission may also define how user profile information is handled by the system. For example permission may enable or disable automatic assimilation of data relating to the user as descried in more detail below. Such an embodiment may include limiting user profile information to only that information provided directly by the user. In some embodiments permissions may specify that one content provider is granted access to a particular portion of user profile information while another content provider is restricted from accessing the same portion of user profile information. Thus user may control in detail what user profile information is provided in their user profile and who what has access to the user profile information.

Although certain embodiments include the user manually providing the user profile information user profile information may be assimilated by one or more automated techniques approved by user . For example a user may select or at least not object to or inhibit user profile repository system automatically collecting data relating to the user. The assimilated data may be used in combination with or in place of the manually provided user profile information. In some embodiments the techniques and systems for assimilating data must be approved by user prior to being implemented to assimilate data pertaining to the respective user. For example a user may select to allow or prevent assimilation of user profile information while editing their user profile. Requiring approval by the user may enable the user to retain control over information that is provided within their user profile.

Systems for automating the assimilation of data pertaining to one or more users may include publishing systems capable of identifying content interest areas and classified advertisement interest areas retail systems capable of identifying favorite brands spending habits wish list things considered but not purchased ticketing systems for identifying favorite bands and movies and or web analytics systems for identifying time spent on line favorite sites site visit frequency key words searched e.g. on web sites or search portals . In some embodiments these systems may be employed within user profile repository system or may include other entities that provide such information to user profile repository system .

In some embodiments user may allow user profile repository system to employ web analytics to generate corresponding marketing information that is stored in association with their respective user profile. For example a user may enable profile repository system to track their visits to various URL s use data mining and semantic association techniques to process abstract information associated with the URL s generate notions related to the process abstracted information of the URL s and map the notions into general areas of interest. As a result the general areas of interest may be added to the user profile information as opposed to a detailed listing of URL s visited by the user. A user may prefer providing access to the generalized information as opposed to providing a content provider with a detailed listing of URL s that may closely resemble tracking of the user s every move. In some embodiments the resulting notions and mapping of notions may be provided with a confidence level that is indicative of the quality of the results. For example a higher confidence level may be indicative of the results accurately reflecting the user s persona desires and preferences. Thus user profile repository system may provide for the translation of raw detailed data information into higher level generalizations that provide value to advertisers while meeting the thresholds bounds of information that the user is willing to share with other entities.

In some embodiments user profile information may be automatically generated revised updated to reflect user preferences favorite sites or other information about the user that may be useful information to a content provider. In some embodiments a user may provide blanket permission for the user repository system to obtain and store particular user profile information categories of user profile information or all user profile information. For example user may select and apply a marketing preference within their user profile to provide blanket permission to allow updating of all types of user profile information upon receiving generating such information. In some embodiments a user may provide a real time permission for the user repository system to obtain and store particular user profile information categories of user profile information or all user profile information. For example upon identifying potential information to add to the user s profile information user repository system may prompt user for permission to add the information to the user s profile information and may add the information to the profile upon user approval or may not add the information to the profile upon the user s disapproval. In some embodiments a user may provide selective permission for the user repository system to store particular user profile information. For example upon identifying potential sets of information to add to the user s profile information user profile repository system may queue the sets of information for review by user and prompt user for permission e.g. one by one to add each potential set of information to the user profile information and may add one or more sets of user profile information to the user profile upon approval or may not add the information to the profile upon the user s disapproval.

Further a user may have the ability to view modify or delete their user profile at any time. In some embodiment user may be able to access and view their user profile information to see exactly what information is shared with other entities e.g. content providers . In some embodiments a user may have the ability to limit access to their profile by other entities of system to block all access to their profile by other entities of system or to completely remove their user profile from user profile repository system and thus system . For example user may have the ability to set permissions or layers of access control which limit the user profile information that is made available to other entities of system . The access may be set on an entity by entity basis and or for each portion of the user profile information separately. In some embodiments removing deleting a user profile may terminate the ability of content providers e.g. advertisers to access the respective user profile information. Such access and control may provide the user with a level of comfort knowing that they can limit access and even remove their user profile if desired. Thus a user may have complete control over the existence of their user profile what marketing information is provided in their respective user profile and or what marketing information is shared with other entities.

User profile information stored in user profiles may be made available to other entities of system via an application programming interface API . An API may include a variety of forms including SOAP or HTTP redirection. Using an API may enable the user profile information to be made available to other entities in accordance with the marketing preferences provided by the user. In some embodiments user profile information is provided in real time to facilitate a content provider identifying appropriate content in view of the user profile information and to dynamically provide update the content for delivery to the user in real time. For example where a web page is requested by a user the web page content provider may query the user profile repository system for information regarding user profile information associated with the requesting user and may provide the web page including content e.g. advertising in accordance with the user profile information.

User profile repository system may include a storage location such as a database for storing a plurality of user profiles associated with a plurality of respective users. In some embodiments user repository includes a centralized repository located on network . For example repository may include a non distributed e.g. centralized database system that is used to store user profiles. In some embodiments user repository includes a distributed repository located on network . For example repository may include a distributed database that is under the control of a central database management system DBMS in which storage devices are not all attached to a common central processing unit CPU . Such a distributed database may be distributed across multiple computers located in the same physical location or may be dispersed over a network of interconnected computers. Thus collections of user profiles e.g. stored in a database of user profile repository system can be distributed across multiple physical locations of network . For example a distributed database of user profile repository system may reside on network servers on the Internet on corporate intranets or extranets or on other networks.

Content provider may include a source of content that is delivered to user . In some embodiments content may include marketing content such as advertisements that are provided in combination with other provided content. In some embodiments marketing content may include advertisements or similar promotional material that is delivered in conjunction with traditional media content. For example an internet content provider may provide a web page comprising primary content e.g. news information and marketing content e.g. an advertisement embedded within or provided separate from the primary content. Similar marketing content may be provided in other forms of media. For example a cable television provider may provide primary content in the form of television shows while also providing marketing content in the form of advertisements shown at commercial breaks or even advertisements embedded in captions located on screen during presentation of the television show.

Content may be provided in various forms of media. For example marketing content may include internet content e.g. a web page provided by an internet content provider video audio content provided by a television content provider audio content provided by a radio content provider written article content provided via a magazine newspaper content provider mailers provided by a postal mailer content provider or the like. It will be appreciated that the listing of content providers is exemplary as the techniques described herein may be used with any type of content and entity interested in deriving user profile information relating to a user. For example an entity may be interested in accessing user profile information even though they do not have a desire to contact the user directly. Content provider may include one or both of a provider that actually delivers content to the user and an entity that collects information such as an advertising agency that may direct how and what content is provided to user . In some embodiment content provider may include any entity that desires to retrieve user profile information. In some embodiments content provider may not actually provide content to the user.

User may include an entity e.g. a person group of persons business etc. that requests and or receives content from content provider . As discussed above the content received may depend on the type of content. Where content includes internet content for example user may include a person at a computer terminal accessing web pages via an internet web browser application and content provider may include a web site provider that provides the content to user in the form of a web page. Where the content includes television content user may include a person watching television programming and content provider may include a television e.g. digital TV cable TV satellite TV provider. Where the content includes a radio content user may include a person listening to the radio and content provider may include a radio e.g. FM AM radio satellite radio or high definition radio provider. Where the content includes magazine newspaper content user may include a magazine or newspaper subscriber and content provider may include the magazine newspaper publisher. Wherein the content includes postal mailer content user may include a mail e.g. postal mail recipient and content provider may include a distributor of advertisement flyers mailers or the like.

Network may include any channel for providing effective communication between each entities of system . In some embodiments network includes an electronic communication network such as the internet a local area network LAN a cellular communications network or the like. For example network may include an internet network used to facilitate communication between each of the entities e.g. user profile repository system user and content provider of system . An electronic communications network may enable the exchange of information between user and user profile repository system as well as between content provider and user profile repository system to facilitate the immediate exchange of user profile information. Thus user may instantly update their user profile information and content provider may instantly access user profile information. Such instantaneous access may be especially beneficial where a content provider is attempting to provide targeted marketing to a user in real time. For example upon receiving a user request to view a web page an internet content provider may submit a request to the user profile repository system to access the user s associated user profile information the associated user profile information may be provided to the content provider and the content provider may provide content to the user in accordance with the user profile information. For example the user may be provided a web page having advertisements that are targeted to the user based on the user profile information. Thus a content provider may provide dynamic targeting marketing that reflects the present user profile information associated with the user.

In some embodiments content may be delivered via network . For example where content includes internet content network may include the internet or a similar electronic communication network as described above. In some embodiments content may be delivered via a communication channel other than network which facilitates the delivery of content between content provider and user . For example For example where content is not deliverable via the internet or a similar electronics communication network the content may be provided via another channel such as a cable satellite television network a radio satellite radio network a mailing shipping network or the like. Where content provider includes a mailer provider mail provider may deliver content to user via a postal mail service although the mail provider and user may be communicatively coupled to user profile repository system via network . Thus the postal service may include a channel for the exchange of content that is separate from network . As a further example where content provider includes a cable television provider user and content provider may be coupled to user profile repository system via an internet connection to facilitate the exchange of electronic data e.g. user profile information while content provider is communicatively coupled to user via a cable satellite cable network that enables the communication of content e.g. television programming and television advertisements from content provider to user e.g. via a television viewed by user . As will be appreciated cable satellite network may include or at least partially rely on internet based communications. Thus the channel for the exchange of content may be facilitated by or work in combination with network .

Each of content providers may be communicatively coupled to user profile repository system such that each of content providers may access user profiles and associated user profile information for each of the respective users stored in user profile repository system . Content providers may include any combination of the same or different types of content providers. For example in an internet based system content providers may all include internet content providers such as different web sites providers that serve web pages to users . In some embodiments providers may include any combination of different types of content providers. For example content providers and may include internet content providers content provider may include a television content provider and content provider may include a radio content provider.

Users may include entities e.g. one or more persons or business that consume the content provided by one or more of content providers . For example in the internet based system in which content providers all include internet content providers users may each include persons that access provided web sites and web pages via an internet web browser application running on a computer device such as a personal computer cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA or the like.

In an embodiment in which providers include a combination of different types of content providers users may consume different types of content provided any of the content providers . For example where content providers and include internet content providers content provider includes a television content provider and content provider includes a radio content provider user may consume internet content provided by providers and via a web page browser at work and at home television content while watching their television at home and radio content while listening to the radio on their way to and from work. Thus user may effectively control marketing content delivered to them via the various content channels by voluntarily knowingly providing user profile information stored in a single user profile that is accessible by the plurality of content providers 

Where a user does not have a corresponding user profile or has otherwise not provided an indication to a content provider that they have a user profiles stored in user profile repository system content provider may provide standard content that is not based on an associated user profile. For example where user does not have a user profile content providers may provide content to user that includes advertisements that are not specifically tailored to user or that is tailored to user based on other user profile information gathered independent of a user profile stored in user profile repository system e.g. via traditional web analytics . Thus user may receive traditional advertisements that are not based on marketing information that is voluntarily knowingly provided for inclusion in a user controlled user profile. Note however that even where user does not provide an indication to a content provider that they have a user profiles stored in user profile repository system they may provide such an indication to another of the content providers. For example user may log in or other wise provide an indication to content provider of their desire to receive content based on their user profile while not logging in or other wise provide an indication to content provider of their desire to receive content based on their user profile. As noted above even when logged into or otherwise providing an indication of a user profile to a content provider user may limit user profile information that is made available to the respective content provider via setting of their user profile.

In some embodiments content providers may tailor modify their content e.g. marketing content delivered to one or more users based on the user profile information provided in a user profile corresponding to the respective user. For example where content provider includes an internet content provider content provider may deliver the same or substantially same primary web page content to each user and requesting content but may customize at least a portion of web page advertisements based on user profile information provided in each user s respective user profile. Where a user profile for user has user profile information indicative of an interest in sports content provider may provide a web page that includes the primary content and an advertisement for a sports drink. Where a user profile for user has user profile information indicative of an interest in travel content provider may provide a web page that includes the primary content and an advertisement for a vacation getaway. Where a user profile for user does not have user profile information specify any particular interest or that blocks access by content provider to the marketing information content provider may provide a web page that includes the primary content and a common advertisement not specifically tailored to the interest of user . Similar techniques may be employed by providers in other types of media. For example a cable television provider may alter commercials that are shown based on a user profile associated with a person expected to be watching the television. Thus content provider may effectively target marketing content delivered to a user based on user profile information that is voluntarily knowingly provide by a user in a user profile stored in a user profile repository accessible by a plurality of content providers and entities of system .

In some embodiments communication between entities of system may be effectuated via one or more applications provided at one or more of the entities. is a diagram that illustrates entities of system including applications modules in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present technique. In the illustrated embodiment a profile module is provided at user profile repository system a user profile application is provided at user and a provider profile application is provided at content provider . In some embodiments user profile repository system includes a remote system service that is accessible by a plurality of users and or a plurality of content providers via network . In some embodiments such a remote system may enable users and content providers to access system directly without establishing a connection via another entity of system such as via a user .

In some embodiments profile module provides a communication interface that enables the exchange of user profile information between user profile repository system and other entities applications of system via network or other communications channels. For example profile module may receive user profile information provided by a user at application and store some or all of the provided user profile information to a data store e.g. database . In some embodiments the user profile information is stored in a user profile corresponding with the particular user. As a further example profile module may provide user profile information to provider profile application at content provider . For example profile module may receive a request for user profile information from provider profile application and may in response to the request retrieve corresponding user marketing information from a user profile from data store and provide the information to provider profile application and content provider .

In some embodiments user profile application may be used to identify user and or enable the exchange of data between user and user profile repository system . For example user profile application may include a cookie stored at a user computer device that is used to identify user when they communicate with profile module e.g. log into or visit a web site for profile module . The cookie may be provided by profile module at a prior exchange between profile module and user . In some embodiments user profile application may include a browser plug in installed on a computer device of user . A browser plug in may enable user to communicate directly with profile module . In some embodiments a browser plug in may reduce issues associated with a user device or application rejecting or otherwise deleting cookies rendering them ineffective for identifying user . A browser plug in may enable a user to readily access other entities of system e.g. user profile repository system via profile module and or provide additional services e.g. internet services to user . For example user profile application may include a browser plug in that continuously displays options to the user regarding their current marketing information and available selections for changing their marketing information.

In some embodiments provider profile application may be used to facilitate the exchange of data between content provider and user profile repository system . For example upon receiving request for content from user and or at some point prior to providing content to user content provider profile application may query profile module for user profile information associated with user . Upon receipt of the query profile module may access a user profile corresponding to user that is stored in data store to retrieve the requested user profile information. The retrieved user profile information may then be forwarded to provider profile application in accordance to marketing preferences selected by user . Such an application may be used to verify the identity of the entity thereby inhibiting unauthorized access to the user profile and associated user profile information.

In some embodiments user profile repository system may enable associating other forms of information with a user profile. For example a user may enable user profile repository system to connect their profile with other profile information already available about them. In some embodiments other profile information may include a profile for the user associated with a social networking site common shopping portals or the like. For example where user has provided information about themselves at a social networking site user may indicate their desire for the user profile repository system to retrieve and or monitor that information. In response profile module may connect with other profile information provided at the site and import relative user profile information for inclusion the corresponding user profile. In some embodiments profile module may monitor other profile information and dynamically update the user profile as the information changes. Thus user may indirectly create or update their user profile via updating other profile information that is connected to their user profile. A user may also provide an indication of what other profile information is to be connected to their profile. For example user may indicate a desire to only share their personal demographic location while blocking information relating to their employment etc.

In some embodiments user profile repository may be configured by user to provide information to other profile information locations. For example user may enable user profile repository system to provide information e.g. their interest from their user profile to a social networking site. Profile module may assess process their user profile to determine that recent interest include sailing boating fishing and may forward this information to the social networking site. Thus user profile information may be used to augment the user s online social networking persona.

In some embodiments content providers may be charged a fee to access the user profile information. Users may be allowed to join for free may be paid an incentive or may be charged a nominal fee to have their user profiles stored in user profile repository . Such a minimal barrier to entry or even incentive may encourage a large number of users to provide user profiles. In some embodiments content providers may provide incentives for users that partake in providing user profile information to user profile repository system. Content provider may provide greater access to content or higher quality content for users merely having user profiles ore user profiles that include and or share certain types or amounts of user profile information. For example an internet content provider may enable full access to all or some of their web site where a user has provided and or made available at least their name age and location within their user profile and may inhibit full access to certain portions of their web site where a user has not provided and or made available at least their name age and location within their user profile. In some embodiments a content provider may require at least certain profile information to even access their web site. Such an access limitation may encourage users to provide information within their user profiles. Moreover the content providers may be able to more readily identify their users thereby generating a premium price for their advertisement. The premium price for advertising may be justified by the content provider s ability to provide accurate demographic information of their users enabling advertisers to provide targeted advertisements that are of interest to the users.

In some embodiments user profile information stored in a user profile may be used for auto population of fields in forms filled out by the user. For example when an identified user is filling out a field of an internet web page and the user has set their user profile to allow the use of their user profile information for auto populating the field may be auto populated using user profile information stored in user profile repository . In some embodiments the user profile information used for auto populating fields may not be shared with other entities. For example the user may set a marketing preference that the particular information not be shared with an entity or group of entities although the user has set a marketing preference that the particular information can be used for auto population of data.

In some embodiments user profile system may be provided locally at an entity of system . For example user profile system may be provided locally at content provider and or user . is a diagram that illustrates entities of system including applications modules in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present technique. In the illustrated embodiment profile repository system is provided locally at user . Other embodiments may include similar system employed at one or more other entities of system such as a plurality of users and or content providers. In some embodiments user profile repository system may include components similar to that described above with respect to remote user profile repository system of . In such an embodiment user profile repository system may be employed locally via a user computer system e.g. of user as opposed to a computer system of an entity that is remotely located on network relative to user e.g. remote user profile repository system of . In some embodiments user profile application may provide an interface between the user profile system and a content provider or other entity of system . In some embodiments such a locally employed system may enable users and or content providers to access system directly without establishing a connection via another entity of system such as via remote user profile repository system of . In some embodiments a local user profile repository system may be used in place of or in combination with a remote user profile repository system. For example as depicted in local user profile repository system may include a standalone application that executes independent of other user profile repository systems. In some embodiments system may include a local user profile repository system and a remote user profile repository system may be provided in combination e.g. on the same network . In some embodiments the local and remote user profile repository systems may have at least some dependence on one another and or interaction with one another. For example information entered and or stored locally at user profile repository system at user may be periodically sent to and stored at remote user profile repository such as that of user profile repository system of e.g. to backup the information entered and or stored locally at user . Thus the information may be more readily available to other entities on network via the remote and or local user profile repository and or the remote user profile repository may provide for back up of the information in the instance it is lost or corrupted at the remote and or local user profile repository. In some embodiments user profile repository system may employ cookies or similar techniques for authenticating users for providing user preferences or similar information about user . For example cookies may be stored in datastore or a similar memory location and may be provided to content provider upon initiation of a session between content provider and user e.g. in response to a request from content provider and or with a request from user to content provider . In some embodiments datastore may include a local memory device such as a hard drive static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In some embodiments a user may enable user a local profile repository system to connect their profile with other profile information already available about them as discussed above.

In the illustrated embodiment method includes a registering with a user profile repository as depicted at block . In some embodiments registering with profile repository may include user initially registering with profile repository system to generate a user profile having user profile information. For example user may visit a web site of the user profile repository system and create a user profile account e.g. a user name and password that is to be associated with their user profile. In some embodiments a user may be provided an opportunity to download an application e.g. user profile application that can be used to access their user profile account. For example upon generating an account a user may be provided the option of downloading a plug in that can be used to access their user account. Such an application may enable a user to access and modify their user account without having to revisit the web site of the user profile repository system . In some embodiments a user registering with user profile repository system may include a user e.g. user that is already registered with profile repository system simply signing logging into their user account. For example a user may visit the web site of the user profile repository system and enter their authentication credentials e.g. username and password or may simply launch an application e.g. a plug in or web browser having a cookie stored therewith that enables user profile repository system to authenticate user . Thus a user may be provided access to their respective user profile including their user profile information upon registering.

In the illustrated embodiment method includes providing user profile information as depicted at block . In some embodiments providing user profile information includes user providing user profile information to user repository system . The provided user profile information may be stored in association with the user s corresponding user profile. In some embodiments user profile information may include marketing information preferences associated with the particular user. The user may add as little or as much information as they desire with the explicit understanding that the information provided in the user profile may be shared with other entities such as content providers e.g. internet advertisers or other locations for profile information such as a social networking site. In some embodiments providing user profile information may include employing other techniques for assimilating user profile information such as those described above. For example providing user profile information may include enabling user profile repository system to share user profile information with other entities e.g. other profile information and or process user profile information to generate user profile information associated with the user.

In the illustrated embodiment method includes storing user profile information as depicted at block . Storing user profile information may include storing user profile information in association with a user profile. For example profile module may commit the user profile information to data store in association with the corresponding user profile.

In the illustrated embodiment method includes requesting content as depicted at block . In some embodiments requesting content includes user indicating a desire to receive content from content provider . Where content provider includes an internet web page content provider for example requesting content may include user providing to content provider via network a request to view a web page. The request may be initiated by user entering a URL in their browser or selecting a URL link in another web page document.

In the illustrated embodiment method includes requesting user profile information as depicted at block . Requesting user profile information may include an entity indicating a desire to retrieve user profile information from user profile repository system . For example where content provider includes a web page provider upon receiving from user a request for the web page content the web page content provider may identify user and send a corresponding request to user profile repository system . The request may include a request for some or all of the user profile information e.g. user hobbies associated with the particular user. In some embodiments the request may be generated at provider profile application and may be transmitted to profile module via network .

In the illustrated embodiment method includes providing user profile information as depicted at block . Providing user profile information may include user profile repository system processing a request for user profile information assessing whether or not to provide the requested profile information and providing an appropriate response to the request that includes or does not include the requested profile information. For example wherein content provider has provide a request user profile information e.g. user hobbies associated with user user repository system may determine whether or not content provider has sufficient access to the requested user profile information. In some embodiments access may be determined based on marketing information preferences set by a user while providing user profile information at block . If it is determined that content provider does have sufficient access to the requested user profile information the requested user profile information e.g. hobbies for user may be forwarded to content provider . If it is determined that content provider does not have sufficient access to the requested user profile information the requested user profile information e.g. hobbies for user may not be forwarded to content provider . In some instances content provider may have access to some but not all of the requested user profile information and thus user profile repository system may forward only the user profile information content provider has access to while not forwarding the user profile information content provider does not have access to. In some embodiments processing is provided at profile module the user profile information is retrieved from data store and the accessible user profile information is communicated from profile module to provider profile application via network .

In the illustrated embodiment method includes providing content in accordance with user profile information as depicted at block . Providing content in accordance with user profile information may include content provider providing content to user in accordance with user profile information that was received from user profile repository system in response to the request for user profile information. For example where content provider includes the internet web page content provider and the provided user profile information indicates a hobby of sports the internet web page provider may generate and return to user a web page that includes primary content along with marketing content directed towards sports e.g. an advertisement for a sports drink . In some embodiments such as those where content provider did not have access to the requested user profile information and or no user profile information was provided to content provider content provider may provide content that is not based on the user profile information. For example content provider may provide a generic advertisement directed to the general public or may use other forms of web analytics to assimilate information about the user e.g. attempt to triangulate the user s location based on their IP address to provide content that is tailored for user .

It will be appreciated that method is an exemplary embodiment of a method employed in accordance with techniques described herein. Method may be may be modified to facilitate variations of its implementations and uses. For example although some embodiments have been descried with respect to internet web page content and an internet web page content provider similar techniques may be employed for other content and content providers such as video audio content provided by a television content provider audio content provided via a radio content provider written content provided via a magazine newspaper content provider mailers provided by a postal mailer content provider or the like. Method may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. The order of method may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc.

Various components of embodiments of the user profile based marketing systems and methods as described herein may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. For example user profile module user profile application and or provider profile application may be executed on one or more computer systems. One such computer system is illustrated by . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard audio device and display s . In some embodiments it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple nodes making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

In some embodiments at least one processor may be a graphics processing unit. A graphics processing unit or GPU may be considered a dedicated graphics rendering device for a personal computer workstation game console or other computer system. Modern GPUs may be very efficient at manipulating and displaying computer graphics and their highly parallel structure may make them more effective than typical CPUs for a range of complex graphical algorithms. For example a graphics processor may implement a number of graphics primitive operations in a way that makes executing them much faster than drawing directly to the screen with a host central processing unit CPU . In various embodiments the methods disclosed herein for layout preserved text generation may be implemented by program instructions configured for execution on one of or parallel execution on two or more of such GPUs. The GPU s may implement one or more application programmer interfaces APIs that permit programmers to invoke the functionality of the GPU s . Suitable GPUs may be commercially available from vendors such as NVIDIA Corporation ATI Technologies and others.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those described above for a layout preserved text generation method are shown stored within system memory as program instructions and data storage respectively. In other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components. In addition in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or retrieving data by one or more computer system . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

As shown in memory may include program instructions configured to implement embodiments of a layout preserved text generation method as described herein and data storage comprising various data accessible by program instructions . In one embodiment program instructions may include software elements of a layout preserved text generation method illustrated in the above Figures. Data storage may include data that may be used in embodiments for example input PDF documents or output layout preserved text documents. In other embodiments other or different software elements and or data may be included.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of a layout preserved text generation method as described herein. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. In some embodiments portions of the techniques described herein e.g. preprocessing of script and metadata may be hosted in a cloud computing infrastructure.

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible storage medium may include a non transitory storage media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. as well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

Various modifications and changes may be to the above technique made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. For example although several embodiments are discussed with regard to internet web page content the techniques described herein may be applied to assess and determine data relating other types of content e.g. television radio magazine newspaper etc. . It is intended that the invention embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. While the invention is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to. As used throughout this application the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly indicates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an element includes a combination of two or more elements. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

