---

title: Paging access terminals in a wireless communications system
abstract: An embodiment is directed to an access network that configures set of paging indicator (PI) bits within a quick paging channel (QPCH) cycle to page a group of access terminals. An access terminal within the group receives the QPCH cycle, and evaluates the PI bits to determine whether a unicast page and/or group page is present. Another embodiment is directed to selecting less than all timeslots in one or more control channel cycles of a downlink control channel, and configuring a page message to convey the selected timeslots to an access terminal. The access terminal receives the configured page message and decodes information only within the selected timeslots. Another embodiment is directed to generating a transport-layer message for transmission to at least one access terminal, and configuring the transport-layer message by modifying an application-layer portion of the transport-layer message. An access terminal receives the message and extracts the application-layer portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08891425&OS=08891425&RS=08891425
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08891425
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100402
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 168 432 entitled PAGING ACCESS TERMINALS IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Apr. 10 2009 and Provisional Application No. 61 175 638 entitled PAGING ACCESS TERMINALS IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on May 5 2009 and each of which is incorporated herein by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to paging access terminals in a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

An embodiment is directed to an access network that configures set of paging indicator PI bits within a quick paging channel QPCH cycle to page a group of access terminals. An access terminal within the group receives the QPCH cycle and evaluates the PI bits to determine whether a unicast page and or group page is present. Another embodiment is directed to selecting less than all timeslots in one or more control channel cycles of a downlink control channel and configuring a page message to convey the selected timeslots to an access terminal. The access terminal receives the configured page message and decodes information only within the selected timeslots. Another embodiment is directed to generating a transport layer message for transmission to at least one access terminal and configuring the transport layer message by modifying an application layer portion of the transport layer message. An access terminal receives the message and extracts the application layer portion.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Again referring to a BCMCS content server not shown makes BCMCS content e.g. push to talk PTT audio packets available within an IP multicast stream. If higher layer encryption is enabled the BCMCS content server may encrypt the stream content.

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals . As used herein multicast messages and multicasting is intended to encompass any group communication or any communication that potentially includes more than two participants where the RAN is aware of the AT s group membership associations. For example irrespective of whether the application server connects three ATs via IP unicasting or IP multicasting protocols the resultant call may still be considered a multicast call as used herein except where IP multicast or unicast are specifically referenced so long as the RAN is aware that the three ATs are participating in a group communication e.g. although it is possible at least one listener to the group communication never registers to the session . Likewise if a call initiator attempts to target two or more other ATs for a group call and only one AT responds for at least a period of time the resultant call is still a group or multicast call despite there only being two participants for a period of time. However certain embodiments such as where reference is made to the Multicast Access Terminal Identifier MATI for example are more specifically to an IP multicasting implementation and not necessarily a group or multicast session based on IP unicasting because MATIs are not typically used in IP unicasting .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In order to better understand the present invention conventional methods of paging members of a multicast group with paging indicator PI bits on a quick paging channel QPCH are described with respect to followed by multicast paging protocols on the QPCH in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention with respect to . As used herein a multicast group is intended to refer to a group call supported by IP multicasting protocols and or IP unicasting protocols unless a particular protocol is referred to with respect to a particular embodiment. For example a multicast access terminal identifier MATI is typically used with respect to IP multicasting but not IP unicasting.

Below are described such that pages occur on a downlink control channel CCH . This description therefore is at least directly applicable to wireless protocols such as EV DO that include a downlink CCH for paging access terminals within the wireless communication system. However it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments other downlink channels can be used to page ATs. For example a paging channel PCH and or a downlink common control channel F CCCH are used in 1x to page ATs. Likewise a quick paging channel QPCH is implemented as a logical channel or sub channel in EV DO over the CCM and is transmitted as a separate message at a specific slot e.g. although the QPCH can require some specific handling at the Physical layer . In 1x the QPCH is a physical channel. Accordingly while described below as a logical channel in embodiments described with respect to EV DO other embodiments can be directed to the QPCH as a separate physical channel.

Accordingly while described below with respect to EV DO terminology it will be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited to EV DO implementations. Accordingly as used herein the downlink CCH is defined as any broadcast channel that a given AT monitors periodically when operating in the idle mode for mobile terminated data with the definition for the CCH only being limited if explicit reference is given to a particular wireless communications protocol e.g. EV DO Rev. A Rev. B 1x etc. is otherwise indicated. Likewise references to CCH capsules below may be designated differently in other protocols such as by the more generic term timeslots in an example. Also while certain protocols define a page message as being a specific type of message page messages referred to hereinafter are intended to be broadly interpreted as corresponding to any downlink message that instructs an AT or ATs to monitor a downlink channel e.g. a downlink CCH PCH F CCCH etc. except where otherwise indicated.

In the RAN determines a unicast access terminal identifier UATI for a given AT AT among ATs . . . N. Next in the RAN applies a hash function to the UATI for AT e.g. or other unique identifier as discussed below in order to map the UATI to a paging indicator PI bit on the QPCH cycle to AT.

Generally each access terminal among ATs . . . N will be assigned a given PI bit on the QPCH cycle based on each access terminal s unique identifier e.g. UATI in 1xEV DO MATI in 1xEV DO IMSI in 1x etc. and the process of has been described with respect to AT for convenience of explanation. Below embodiments of the present invention are described as being applied to UATIs in accordance with 1xEV DO. However it will be readily appreciated that these embodiments could be modified by one of ordinary skill in the art so as to conform with unique identifiers consistent with other standards or with MATIs in 1xEV DO . For example a SessionSeed for an AT can be used to uniquely identify the AT instead of the UATI. The number of UATI s within the wireless communications system can be relatively high whereas the number of available PI bits on the QPCH cycle is relatively low. Thus in the RAN maps or hashes the UATIs to assign each AT an PI bit or more than one bit where the same PI bit s can be assigned to different ATs. Thus if a PI bit or bits is set to indicate a page the PI bit s only indicate a potential page because the PI bit s could actually be indicating a page for another access terminal that has been assigned the same PI bit s .

Returning to the hash function for the UATI can correspond to any well known hash function and can be based on the number of PI bits in each QPCH cycle. For example assume that each QPCH cycle e.g. which is transmitted at a given period such as every 200 ms or once per CCH cycle on a given CCH capsule as noted above includes 16 PI bits. Thus in an example the hash function can mask all but the 4 least significant bits LSBs of AT s UATI and to use the binary number indicated by the 4 LSBs as the position of AT s assigned PI bit. Thus if the 4 LSBs of AT s UATI are 0000 AT can be assigned the 1LSB of the 16 PI bits. If the 4 LSBs of AT s UATI are 1110 AT would be assigned the 15LSB or 2most significant bit MSB of the 16 PI bits and so on. However it will be appreciated that any well known hashing function can be used in step .

In an example the QPCH cycle can correspond to a QPCH message e.g. a given bit or field a synchronous or sub synchronous Control Channel header etc. which is discussed below in more detail in EV DO Revision A. In another example the QPCH cycle can correspond to a Quick Page message transmitted as part of the Quick Synchronous Control Channel Capsule with Quick Paging Indicator bits in 1xEV DO. In another example the QPCH cycle can be a QuickPage message in EV DO revision B. In another example the QPCH cycle can correspond to a QPCH as a physical downlink channel with PI bits in 1x. Accordingly it will be appreciated that while reference is made to QPCH cycle in embodiments of the present invention described below QPCH cycles are intended to be read broadly upon any channel or any timeslot e.g. a control channel capsule of a given channel that conveys information with regard to whether to check another downlink channel or channel portion e.g. a paging channel in 1x a subsequent control channel capsule on the CCH in EV DO etc. to confirm a page. In another example the QPCH cycle can correspond to a proprietary message that includes or encapsulates a given message e.g. a QuickPage message that indicates a potential arrival of a subsequent page or other message to the AT. For example the proprietary message can be encapsulated as part of a StorageBlobRequest e.g. a BCMCSFlowRegistration request or StorageBlobAssignment message in EV DO and transmitted in an initial control channel MAC packet in the synchronous or sub synchronous capsules.

In AT periodically monitors its assigned PI bit s on the QPCH to determine whether there is a possibility that AT is being paged. For example AT can be in an idle state e.g. such as when the access terminal is not engaged in a telephone call a multicast session etc. and can periodically power up to check a given QPCH cycle in order to determine whether AT is being paged. In a further example a PI bit or bits set to a higher logic level e.g. binary 1 can indicate a page and a PI bit or bits set to a lower logic level e.g. binary 0 can indicate a non page.

In assume that the RAN determines that AT is not to be paged. Further assume that no other AT among ATs . . . N that has been assigned the same PI bit s as AT is to be paged. With these assumptions the RAN sets the PI bit s assigned for AT to indicate a non page e.g. AT s PI bit 0 and the RAN transmits the PI bits on the forward link QPCH e.g. at a next QPCH cycle with AT s PI bit s set to a non page status . For example if AT is assigned a single PI bit and AT s PI bit is a 15bit among 16 PI bits in the QPCH cycle the QPCH cycle can be configured as follows in an example 

Next AT monitors the QPCH cycle and detects that its PI bit or bits do not indicate a page . If AT woke up from an idle state to check the QPCH cycle AT can resume idle mode until powering up to evaluate the next QPCH cycle. Likewise it will be appreciated that any other ATs assigned the same PI bit s as AT also check the QPCH cycle and detect the non page status of the PI bit in .

In the application server or other initiator requests that multicast packets be sent to a multicast group including at least AT. Accordingly in the multicast packets are routed to the BSN . In the BSN forwards the multicast packets over the BCA connection to the RAN . For example the multicast packets are first forwarded to the BSC PCF and the BSC PCF analyzes the multicast group members for the multicast packets and forwards the multicast packets to each MPT BS serving one or more multicast group members.

Once the RAN receives the multicast packets to be sent to multicast group members in association with a multicast session e.g. a broadcast multicast service BCMCS session the RAN determines the UATIs for each multicast group member. The RAN applies a hash function to each UATI or alternative unique identifiers of the AT e.g. in protocols other than 1xEV DO as mentioned above in order to assign at least one PI bit on the QPCH to each multicast group member . In an example the hashing step may be performed in advance of the receipt of the multicast packets from and as such need not be performed each time multicast packets are received. In other words the RAN can maintain a table with each UATI or other unique identifier and its associated PI bit position s within the QPCH cycle on the QPCH. The hashing function applied in to the multicast group members can be the same hashing function applied to AT s UATI in .

After determining the PI bit positions for each multicast group member the RAN sets the PI bits assigned for each multicast group member to indicate a page e.g. multicast group member PI bits 1 and the RAN transmits the QPCH cycle on the forward link QPCH with each multicast group member s PI bit set to a page status . The multicast group members including AT monitor the QPCH cycle and detect that their respective PI bits indicate a potential page . Next because the multicast group members detect a page indication on the QPCH cycle the multicast group members next confirm the page on the downlink CCH e.g. by decoding the CCH capsule following the QPCH cycle on the downlink CCH in EV DO . For example in EV DO the downlink CCH capsule following the CCH capsule for the QPCH cycle indicates whether a given AT is actually paged whereas the CCH capsule corresponding to the QPCH cycle only indicates a potential page. Alternatively in a 1 implementation for example as noted above the PCH can be checked in e.g. a Forward Link Paging Channel F PCH or a Forward Link Common Control Channel F CCCH in a 1x network after a given time offset from the QPCH cycle. The RAN then transmits the multicast packets over the air interface to the paged multicast group members with group transmission e.g. IP multicasting IP unicasting etc. protocols as is known in the art and the multicast group members exit idle mode if applicable and monitor the multicast transmissions .

However as will be appreciated the multicast group members are not necessarily the only access terminals that receive a PI bit indicating a potential page in . For example assume that ATs . . . N include ATs through with ATs through being multicast group members and that there are 4 PI bits in the QPCH cycle. Further assume that after the hashing step the PI bit positions of ATs through are as follows 

Referring to Table 2 above i PI bit position includes multicast group members AT AT and AT ii PI bit position includes multicast group members AT AT AT and AT iii PI bit position includes multicast group member AT and iv PI bit position does not include any multicast group members. Accordingly PI bit positions and each include at least one multicast group member and the RAN sets PI bit positions and to indicate a page e.g. PI bit positions and 1 . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art non member ATs and are also assigned PI bits and respectively. Thus ATs and will detect a potential page upon receipt of the QPCH cycle and will expend additional power to check at least one other downlink CCH capsule e.g. or the PCH or F CCCH in 1x to confirm the page. Thus a high number of non member ATs can receive a false positive setting of their respective PI bits during a multicast session. In the example provided above with respect to Table 2 each multicast group member is assigned a single PI bit that indicates a potential page for that AT. However it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to ATs or multicast group members being assigned multiple PI bits such that each of the multiple PI bits would be set to an active page status to indicate a potential page for that AT.

Once the RAN receives the multicast packets to be sent to multicast group members in association with a multicast session e.g. a BCMCS session the RAN sets the QPCH cycle to indicate a broadcast page . The broadcast page does not mean that the multicast packets are broadcast to ATs . . . N but rather means that the QPCH cycle or more than one QPCH cycle indicates to each of ATs . . . N to monitor another downlink CCH portion to confirm the broadcast page e.g. in EV DO as noted above this means checking the next CCH capsule on the CCH cycle following the QPCH cycle s CCH capsule . The QPCH cycle can be set to indicate a broadcast page by modifying a header of the QPCH cycle as is known in the art or alternatively by setting each PI bit within the QPCH to indicate a page e.g. each PI bit 1 . For example if the QPCH cycle includes 16 PI bits the QPCH cycle configured to indicate a broadcast page can be as follows 

Next the RAN transmits the QPCH cycle on the forward link QPCH either with i a broadcast page indicated in a header of the QPCH cycle or ii each PI bit set to indicate a page status . The ATs . . . N monitor the QPCH cycle and detect a potential page . Next the ATs . . . N further evaluate the downlink CCH e.g. in EV DO by checking a CCH capsule following the QPCH cycle s CCH capsule and the multicast group members confirm an actual multicast page whereas the non member ATs only confirm a page only if the non member ATs are separately paged e.g. by another multicast or unicast session . The RAN then transmits the multicast packets over the air interface to the paged multicast group members with group transmission e.g. IP multicasting IP unicasting etc. protocols as is known in the art and the multicast group members exit idle mode if applicable and monitor the multicast transmissions .

However similar to activating PI bits for each multicast group member in a unicast fashion the broadcast page of typically requires a number of false positive page indications to non member ATs which can consume power unnecessarily at those non member ATs. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention are directed to paging protocols for multicast session that reduce the number of non member ATs that receive false positive page indications for multicast sessions.

Referring to in the RAN assigns a header configuration for the QPCH cycle that indicates the presence of one or more multicast PI bits. For example a particular bit setting within the reserve field of the EV DO MAC header of the QPCH cycle can be used to indicate the presence of one or more multicast PI bits within the QPCH cycle. Table 4 below illustrates a number of examples of QPCH cycle headers for MAC layer control channel QPCH cycles e.g. in a 1xEV DO Rev. A network . As will be appreciated while not illustrated in Table 4 other embodiments can be directed to header configurations for QPCH cycles in an F PCH or F CCCH in a 1x network for example.

After assigning the header configuration in the RAN informs ATs that are present within one or more multicast groups of the assigned header configuration such that the multicast group member ATs can analyze the headers of QPCH cycles to determine whether to check an associated PI bit for a multicast group . In another example the 2 bit reserved field of the QPCH cycle header can be set to indicate the presence of a page to multicast ATs e.g. in place of or in addition to PI bits within the actual QPCH cycle .

Next the RAN determines a multicast access terminal identifier MATI for a particular multicast group . The MATI is a unique identifier of a multicast group whereas the UATI discussed above is a unique identifier of a particular access terminal. In the RAN applies a hash function to the MATI to map a PI bit position within the QPCH cycle to the multicast group identified by the MATI.

The hash function of can be configured in any number of ways. For example the MATI hash function can be configured to be the same as the UATI hash function described above with respect to of . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art both UATIs and MATIs can be hashed to the same PI bits. In another example if a multicast group is expected to be large the hash function can assign the MATI to a reserved multicast PI bit position within the QPCH cycle wherein UATIs are not hashed to the reserved multicast PI bit position. While the above examples illustrate a few potential hash functions that may be applied in it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the present invention can be directed to an implementation of any type of well known hash function in . After hashing the MATI to the QPCH cycle for the given multicast group the RAN informs the multicast group members of the given multicast group of the assigned PI bit position. Thus as will be described in greater detail below with respect to the multicast group members of the given multicast group check the PI bit for the given multicast group if the header configuration of the QPCH cycle indicates that one or more multicast groups are being paged . The 1x and EV DO standards define hash functions that are utilized for enabling QPCH cycles within its framework.

Referring to ATs . . . N monitor the QPCH periodically to determine whether potential pages are present within the QPCH cycle. In the RAN determines whether any multicast groups are to be paged. For example if the RAN receives one or more multicast packets for transmission to a multicast group the RAN can determine to page that multicast group in . In assume the RAN determines that no multicast groups are to be paged and therefore the RAN configures the header of the QPCH cycle to indicate that no multicast pages are present . For example in the RAN configures the header of the QPCH cycle can be configured in a conventional manner e.g. different than the header configuration as determined in of . Next the RAN transmits the PI bits of the QPCH cycle to ATs . . . N. Here the QPCH cycle includes only unicast PI bits paging ATs based on hashed UATIs as is known in the art and described above with respect to portions of .

ATs . . . N which are monitoring the QPCH e.g. by temporarily powering up while in an idle state except for ATs that are engaged in an active communication session receive the QPCH cycle transmitted by the RAN . ATs . . . N analyze the header of the QPCH cycle and determine that no multicast pages are contained therein . Accordingly ATs . . . N next evaluate their respective unicast PI bits to determine whether a potential unicast page is present for the respective ATs . While not illustrated within for the sake of clarity ATs among ATs . . . N that determine a potential page is present can further check the downlink CCH e.g. by decoding a subsequent CCH capsule in EV DO to confirm the page whereas ATs among ATs . . . N that determine a potential page is not present need not further decode the CCH cycle e.g. at least until a next QPCH cycle on a future CCH cycle resume idle mode etc.

In the application server or other initiator requests that multicast packets be sent to a multicast group including a number of multicast group members. Accordingly in the multicast packets are routed to the BSN . In the BSN forwards the multicast packets over the BCA connection to the RAN . For example the multicast packets are first forwarded to the BSC PCF and the BSC PCF analyzes the multicast group members for the multicast packets and forwards the multicast packets to each MPT BS serving one or more multicast group members.

Accordingly in the RAN determines whether any multicast groups are to be paged. Here because the BSN has forwarded multicast packets to be transmitted to a given multicast group the RAN determines to page the given multicast group in . Next in the RAN configures the header of the QPCH cycle to indicate the presence of one or more multicast pages. For example the header configuration can correspond to the configuration established within of . The RAN also sets the multicast PI bit for the given multicast group on the QPCH cycle to indicate a page of the given multicast group . The multicast PI bit for the given multicast group corresponds to the PI bit position established in with the hash function.

In the RAN transmits the QPCH cycle including the i configured multicast indicating header and ii the PI bits to ATs . . . N. Unlike the QPCH cycle transmitted in the QPCH cycle of includes at least one PI bit indicating a multicast page in addition to any unicast PI bits that are present. Likewise in the RAN configures the control channel CCH to indicate an actual page of the given multicast group and transmits the configured CCH to the given multicast group. For example the configured CCH can include a first CCH capsule including the QPCH cycle that indicates the potential page for the multicast group and a second CCH capsule e.g. directly following the first CCH capsule to confirm the multicast group page.

ATs . . . N which continue to monitor the QPCH e.g. by temporarily powering up while in an idle state except for ATs engaged in an active communication session receive the QPCH cycle transmitted by the RAN . ATs . . . N analyze the header of the QPCH cycle and determine that one or more multicast pages are contained therein . In each of ATs . . . N evaluates their respective unicast PI bits to determine whether a potential unicast page is present for the respective ATs . Further also in ATs among ATs . . . N that belong to at least one multicast group further evaluate the multicast PI bit s for the at least one multicast group to determine whether a potential multicast page is present for multicast group members. For example the multicast PI bit s evaluated by the multicast group members are transferred to the multicast group members at of .

In both i the paged multicast group members and ii ATs having the same PI bit position within the QPCH cycle as any paged multicast group s perform an additional evaluation of the downlink CCH e.g. by decoding the next CCH capsule that follows the CCH capsule carrying the QPCH cycle in EV DO protocol . Here the paged multicast group members confirm the multicast page whereas the ATs that have the same PI bit position within the QPCH cycle as the multicast group determine whether a unicast page is present i.e. because the non member ATs are not interested in the multicast page . The RAN then transmits the multicast packets over the air interface to the paged multicast group members with multicasting protocols e.g. as indicated in the CCH page in as is known in the art and the multicast group members exit idle mode if applicable and monitor the multicast transmissions .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art configuring multicast pages for a particular multicast group to occupy a single PI bit within the QPCH cycle based on the MATI reduces the number of false positive page indicators for non member ATs as compared to either the unicast implementation of or the broadcast implementation of . As discussed above the unicast implementation for paging multicast groups where each multicast group member is paged with unicast protocols based on each AT s UATI pages each PI bit associated with each multicast group member on the QPCH cycle. Likewise the broadcast implementation for paging multicast groups sets a broadcast PI bit to page all ATs. Accordingly mapping or hashing the MATI to a single PI bit within the QPCH cycle can reduce the number of non member ATs that are paged for the multicast i.e. because non member ATs of the single PI bit are potentially inconvenienced as opposed to non member ATs of multiple PI bits .

However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the reduction in false positives of non member ATs is achieved as a tradeoff with respect to processing overhead at ATs that are members of multicast groups. In each multicast group member monitors its own unicast PI bit on the QPCH cycle but need not monitor any other PI bit. As described in multicast group members evaluate at least one additional PI bit position within the QPCH cycle which can consume resources e.g. power processing time etc. at the member ATs e.g. unless the multicast PI bit position is mapped hashed to the same PI bit position as a member AT s unicast PI bit .

As discussed above with respect to embodiments of the invention the QPCH conserves power at access terminals because the access terminals need only periodically monitor the QPCH instead of continuously monitoring a transmission channel or the remainder of the downlink CCH. In other words when an access terminal is idle the access terminal remains in standby mode except for periodic wake ups to check the QPCH for a potential page. The higher the rate at which the access terminal wakes up the lower the standby time although the delay setup time is also reduced.

Embodiments of the invention described above with respect to have generally been directed to protocols e.g. 1xEV DO Rev. B where handsets or ATs wake up relatively frequently to check its PI bit s on the QPCH cycle e.g. the AT wakes up once per CCH cycle to check the QPCH cycle for a potential page . If the PI bits within the QPCH cycle are decoded by an AT and these bit s indicate that the AT has a page likely destined to it the AT decodes the Control Channel capsule s or PCH in 1x to determine if there was indeed a page and or other forms of mobile terminated messages e.g. for BOMs DOS Announce messages etc. . The downlink channel portion for confirming the page is typically offset in time from the QPCH cycle by a fixed amount. For example in EV DO if a CCH capsule carrying a QPCH cycle indicates a potential page of the AT the CCH capsule on the downlink CCH cycle for the AT to confirm the page occurs at a timeslot or capsule following the QPCH cycle. In another example in 1x if a QPCH cycle indicates a potential page of the AT the PCH portion for the AT to confirm the page begins a given time e.g. 20 ms after the end of the QPCH cycle. If the PI bits indicate that there was no page destined for this AT the AT will not decode the subsequent CCH capsule and or PCH but will instead go to sleep e.g. idle mode thereby conserving battery power. If the AT is unable to decode the PI bits or the QuickPage message for example due to weak channel conditions the AT continues to decode the channel portion for confirming pages e.g. the next CCH capsule in EV DO etc. to confirm or disconfirm whether page are present. 

As mentioned above QPCH cycles are short and occur relatively frequently e.g. once per CCH cycle within one capsule of the CCH in EV DO and the higher the rate at which ATs wake up to monitor for a potential page on the QPCH the lower the standby time of the AT e.g. which can increase power consumption while the call setup delay is decreased e.g. because an AT is likely to recognize a page during a first CCH cycle at which the AT is paged . Typically in CDMA systems there is one QPCH cycle per control channel capsule e.g. on the CCH in EV DO or PCH slot e.g. in 1x although it will be appreciated that the QPCH cycle can occur more frequently e.g. more than once per CCH cycle or less frequently e.g. every other CCH cycle once every three CCH cycles etc. in other embodiments of the invention.

Further it will be appreciated that false positives are possible for an AT s PI bit s within the QPCH cycle e.g. because PI bits are not AT specific and a PI bit set to indicate a potential page for an AT or group of ATs does not necessarily intend to page each AT assigned to that PI bit which can increase power consumption for the AT if the AT not actually being paged and thereby reduce the reliability of the QPCH approach. Also using the QPCH cycle to indicate potential pages of ATs requires a negotiation between the AT s and the RAN e.g. to assign the PI bit s to the AT s as in . In general in cellular networks a large number N of ATs can be registered with the RAN e.g. 50 000

Referring to AT wakes up and decodes the page on the CCH and begins decoding each control channel capsule on the downlink CCH . The RAN transmits one or more data packets to AT on one or more of the control channel capsules on the downlink CCH . While not shown explicitly in assume that AT successfully decodes each data packet transmitted in because AT continues to decode each control channel capsule.

In the RAN determines whether to continue sending data to AT . If AT determines to continue sending data to AT the process returns to and the next CCH cycle indicates that AT is still being paged. Otherwise the next CCH cycle indicates that AT is no longer being paged . AT monitors the CCH and detects that a page for AT is no longer present and AT stops decoding control channel capsules on the downlink CCH .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art it is possible and perhaps even likely that not all control channel capsules on the downlink CCH will include messages for AT even assuming AT is being paged. Accordingly embodiments of the invention which will now be described in greater detail with respect to are directed to increasing standby time to conserve power at one or more access terminals e.g. within a system that does not necessarily use the QPCH such as 1xEV DO Rev. A network while also reducing the number of packets an AT must decode on the downlink control channel in the event of a page. In the embodiments of the invention described below a page message e.g. a QuickConfig message a StorageBlobAssignment message etc. or any message that instructs an AT to monitor a downlink channel for incoming messages carried on a downlink CCH e.g. the CCH in EV DO the PCH or F CCCH in 1x etc. indicates whether one or more control channel capsules include data or other information designated for a particular AT or group of ATs and also indicates less than all control channel capsules among a set of control channel capsules e.g. the set of capsules between CCH cycle intervals for the AT to decode e.g. instead of decoding each control channel capsule until the AT s paging status changes . While the embodiments described below are directed generally to an 1xEV DO Rev. A network it will be appreciated how other embodiments of the invention can be directed to any network including a downlink channel indicating pages e.g. even if the network also includes a QPCH .

In a further example the selected less than all control channel capsules may correspond to control channel capsules immediately following the page message e.g. transmitted in below such as a QuickConfig message in 1xEV DO Rev. A . In this example the data to be transmitted to AT can be delay sensitive e.g. an announce message for a push to talk PTT call etc. and scheduling information for transmission to AT on the first available control channel capsule s subsequent to the page message can decrease a call setup time or initial PTT latency.

Next in the RAN configures a page message e.g. a QuickConfig message to indicate a page of AT and also to indicate the selected less than all control channel capsules. As mentioned above a page message is intended to be interpreted broadly and can be indicative of a page message a quick page message or any other message e.g. proprietary or non proprietary that when conveyed to one or more ATs over the downlink control channel results in the one or more ATs monitoring some portion of a downlink channel e.g. such as the downlink control channel itself which can be a PCH or Common Control Channel F CCCH in 1x a CCH in EV DO etc. .

In the selected less than all control channel capsules can be indicated to AT in a number of ways within the page message as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. For example in 1xEV DO Rev. A there are 128 MAC indices available. One or more of these 128 MAC indices may be reserved and pre defined to indicate to ATs the control channel capsule or capsules that include information for a paged AT. Thus by including a reserved or pre defined MAC index in the page message e.g. the QuickConfig message the RAN can convey to AT the control channel capsule s to decode. In a specific 1xEV DO Rev. In an example the FTCValid and or RPCCount bits in the QuickConfig message can be used to convey the selected less than all control channel capsule s . In an alternative example a StorageBlobAssignment message that is addressed to the Broadcast Access Terminal Identifier BATI can be used to convey the selected less than all control channel capsule s can be used instead of the QuickConfig message. In an example the page message e.g. the QuickConfig and or StorageBlobAssignment message can be configured to indicate a given number that corresponds to the number of consecutive control channel capsules on the downlink CCH for AT to decode subsequent to the page message. For example while the QuickConfig message is limited in its scope due to availability of a few bits the StorageBlob message e.g. StorageBlobAssignment message StorageBlobRequest message etc. is customizable. In an example the contents of the StorageBlob message can be the same as a QuickPage message. However it will be appreciated that there is no RAN hardware upgrade required with using a customized StorageBlob message. Alternately the StorageBlob when used for a single call page message transmission can indicate a time schedule of slots for a given page message transmission. For example in this regard the StorageBlob message can mirror the BOM message in the sense that scheduling information is conveyed to one or more ATs except that the actual data transmissions occur over the CCH rather than the BCH e.g. as is the case for BOMs . In an example the page message can be included a DOS message on the downlink CCH which is described in more detail within co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 242 444 entitled ANNOUNCING A CALL TO AN ACCESS TERMINAL IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Sep. 30 2008 assigned to the same assignee of the present application and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In an alternative example individual control channel capsules or control channel capsule ranges can be indicated by the page message such that the selected less than all control channel capsules need not fall immediately after the page message and or consecutively relative to each other.

In an example it will be appreciated that paging messages are typically sent from the RAN to one or more access terminals and as such correspond to the transport layer. As used herein a transport layer message may correspond to a network based transport layer e.g. TCP or STCP or alternatively may correspond to a transport layer between the RAN and the AT e.g. in EV DO this may correspond to StorageBlob messages DOS messages etc. .

However in an embodiment of of the RAN can modify a transport layer message e.g. a StorageBlob message a DOS message etc. at an application layer to convey information to one or more access terminals and the use the application layer modified transport message as the configured page message in . For example a DOS message including the page message can be generated as a transport layer message and the RAN can modify the DOS message at the application layer by addressing the DOS message to a MATI or broadcast access terminal identifier BATI instead of a UATI such that the modified DOS message corresponds to an application layer modified transport message. The DOS message will then be decoded by all ATs e.g. in case of BATI or by a group designated by the MATI. Likewise a StorageBlob message configured to indicate the less than all control channel capsules can also be considered an application layer modified transport message. Thus a lower layer message e.g. at the transport layer can be used to transfer a higher layer e.g. application layer datagram. While described in with respect to paging messages it will be appreciated that other embodiments can configure other types of messages as transport layer messages that are modified from the application layer. For example the DOS message may be configured to include an announce message in other embodiments as described within the above incorporated co pending patent application Ser. No. 12 242 444.

In a further example when a VoIP call is placed assume that a higher layer e.g. application layer message using the SIP protocol provides the identity of the caller. When the higher layer message needs to be delivered to the target AT the higher layer message may not be capable of being sent as a DOS message because its associated message size may be too large. Rather the RAN can page the mobile and set up a TCH and then deliver the message. As the higher layer message is large e.g. 1000 bytes the paging delay may be up to 1.28 seconds in 1 Rel. 0 the TCH setup may be 1.8 seconds and the message delivery time will be in the order of another second.

In an embodiment of the invention however the caller s identity field can be extracted by the RAN and placed within a StorageBlob or DOS message e.g. a transport layer message so that the target AT has some information related to the call associated with the page 2 to 3 seconds earlier. Conventionally as noted above the AT would decode the page without knowing the identity of the sender of the application layer message to be decoded after TCH setup. Thus even though the application layer message is too large in this case to be simply packaged within the DOS message for example some information e.g. caller identity can be conveyed based on a manipulation or extraction of application layer information and subsequent modification at the transport layer to convey this information to the AT.

Of course the type of application layer information that is extracted and used for modification at the transport layer need not be limited to the caller identity field. Accordingly in another embodiment the source and destination port numbers of a TCP connection which would normally be carried in the Transmission Control Protocol TCP SYN message i.e. an application layer message to initialize a TCP connection could be transported in the lower layer message e.g. a transport layer message such as the StorageBlob or DOS messages as discussed above .

After configuring the page message to page AT to indicate the selected less than all control channel capsules the RAN transmits the configured page message to AT . AT wakes up and decodes the CCH to detect the configured page message . Next in instead of simply decoding each control channel capsule on the downlink CCH until AT determines it is no longer being paged AT decodes only the selected less than all control channel capsules indicated by the page message . As will be appreciated this reduces the processing load and power consumption at AT because one or more unnecessary control channel capsules i.e. control channel capsules that are known not to include packets for AT need not be decoded by AT . Likewise in the RAN transmits one or more data packets to AT on at least one of the selected less than all control channel capsules. As mentioned above the RAN does not necessarily transmit to AT on each of the selected less than all control channel capsules because one or more of these control channel capsules may be selected to increase AT s chances of decoding one or more other control channel capsules upon which data is present.

Next in the RAN determines whether to send more data to AT . If the RAN determines to send more data to AT in the process returns to and the RAN again selects less than all control channel capsules among another set of control channel capsules for AT to monitor or decode for a subsequent set period. Otherwise if the RAN determines not to send more data to AT in the RAN stops paging AT . As will be appreciated AT wakes up and checks the page of and detects it is no longer being paged although AT may have already stopped decoding control channel capsules at this point because AT only decodes the control channel capsules indicated by the page message.

In an example configuring pages to indicate particular portions of the downlink CCH to be decoded by particular ATs or groups of ATs can be reserved for certain types of communication sessions e.g. PTT calls or types of ATs. Also if each control channel capsule is scheduled by the RAN to include data for a particular AT or group of ATs at least until a next CCH cycle the RAN can omit the control channel capsule selection altogether such that the AT or group of ATs will simply decode each control channel capsule as in the conventional art.

Further while certain embodiments described above reference group calls or multicast calls it will be appreciated that certain embodiments are directed either to group calls or direct calls while other embodiments are directed to group calls supported by IP multicasting and or IP unicasting protocols. Still other embodiments are specific to group calls supported by IP multicasting protocols such as embodiments that are dependent upon use of the MATI. Further while reference has been generally made to calls in the above embodiments it will be appreciated that the embodiments are applicable to any type of communication session and not necessarily a call between two parties. For example embodiments can be directed to a data transport session which is technically not a call .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

