---

title: Requesting reimbursement for transactions
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for generating and delivering a reimbursement request from a customer of a financial institution. According to various embodiments a transaction list may be displayed to a customer. The transaction list may comprise transactions on the customer's account at the financial institution. An indication of a transaction to be reimbursed selected from the list, an indication of a recipient of the reimbursement request, an indication of the reimbursement request amount, and a text message may be received from the customer. The reimbursement request may be generated by packaging an indication of the customer, a description of the transaction to be reimbursed, the indication of the recipient, the indication of the reimbursement request amount and the text message into a message format. The reimbursement request may be transmitted to the recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08965798&OS=08965798&RS=08965798
owner: The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
number: 08965798
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100129
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 148 802 filed on Jan. 30 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Banking institutions frequently offer Internet banking products and services to their customers as an alternative to traditional brick and mortar banking channels. Such products and services are typically provided via a user interface UI of a secure banking Web site that is hosted by the bank and that is remotely accessible by its customers using for example a personal computer PC or other network enabled device. Products and services that may be offered to Internet banking customers include for example account balance inquiries electronic funds transfers transaction information downloads bill presentment and payment loan applications and investment services.

Although existing Internet banking products and services allow customers to manage their accounts and make transfers to billing parties the inventors have recognized a need for enhanced products and services facilitating transfers of funds among customers and between customers and other parties.

Various embodiments may be directed to requesting and causing transfers of funds between customers of the financial institution. This functionality may be useful to any financial institution customers who have need to transfer funds between themselves or with other parties for any reason. For example this functionality may be useful to financial institution customers who are roommates and have need to split household bills such as for example bills for utilities. Also parties having a contractual or other relationships requiring inter party monetary transfers may utilize the functionality. In addition various embodiments may be directed to allowing a customer of the financial institution to request reimbursement from a third party for a completed or pending transaction who may but need not necessarily hold an account at the financial institution. This functionality may also be useful to institution customers who are roommates or who otherwise need to request reimbursement for certain expenses from other parties. According to various embodiments the reimbursement functionality may be useful to college students who may request reimbursement for certain expenses from family or friends e.g. parents as described hereinbelow.

The host system may be constructed and arranged with any suitable combination of components. For example according to various embodiments the host system may be arranged in a tiered network architecture and include a Web server an application server and a database server . The Web server may correspond to a first tier of the host system and communicate with the communication network e.g. the Internet and the application server via a border firewall and an application firewall respectively. The Web server may be configured to accept requests from one or more of the clients via the communication network and provide responses. The requests and responses may be formatted according to Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or any other suitable format. The responses may include for example static and or dynamic documents for providing an Internet banking user interface UI to customers via the clients . The documents may be formatted according to the Hypertext Markup Language HTML or any other suitable format. The Web server may further be configured to authenticate each customer s credentials before allowing access to the UI and other banking resources. Such authentication may be performed for example using a user name and a password. Additional security measures may be utilized in the authentication process if desired.

A second tier of the host system may comprise an application server . The application server may communicate with the Web server and the data base server e.g. Tier 3 via the application firewall and an internal firewall respectively. The application server may host one or more Internet banking applications for executing the business logic associated with Internet banking features of the UI . The application server may receive customer entered information from the UI of each client via the Web server . Such information may include for example a user name and password customer requests to access particular Internet banking features etc. Based on this and other information received from the clients via the Web server the application server may perform transactions e.g. transfer funds between accounts retrieve account balances transfer amounts to other customer etc. and generate corresponding informational content e.g. transfer confirmations account balance information etc. . Information regarding such transactions may be communicated to the Web server and subsequently presented to the customers using for example a dynamic Web page of the UI .

The third tier of the host system may comprise a database server which may communicate with the application server via the internal firewall . The database server may manage one or more databases containing data necessary for supporting one or more Internet banking features. Such databases may include for example an account information database a customer information database a customer preferences settings database as well as other databases for storing additional settings and or configurations. Such information may be retrieved processed and updated as needed by the application server based on the particular Internet banking features s being used.

The clients may include any suitable network enabled devices such as for example personal computers PC s automated teller machines ATM s palmtop computers cellular phones etc. The clients may be configured to transmit and receive information via the communication network using a wired or wireless connection and may include a suitable browser software application including for example MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MOBILE MOZILLA FIREFOX PALM BLAZER etc. for enabling the customer to display enter and interact with information exchanged via the communication network . The clients may thus access and navigate static and or dynamic HTML documents of the Internet banking UI .

The host system may further include an email server in communication with the application server for enabling the exchange of electronic communications between clients and one more parties externally located with respect to the host system . Electronic communications may be exchanged between the email server and the parties via a communication network . Although the communication network is depicted separately from the communication network in it will be appreciated that the communication networks may be implemented using a common communication network e.g. the Internet . According to various embodiments the e mail server and or the application server may implement an account for some or all of the customers associated with parties or clients . Each customer s account may be accessible by the customer and may include communications directed to the customer including for example electronic bills transfer requests etc. In certain embodiments and as shown in the host system may include an email firewall disposed between the email server and the communication network . The email server may implement an email server application for handling the transfer of electronic communications to and from other email servers and email clients e.g. clients and parties using any suitable email protocols and standards.

Generally a party may be any person or entity with whom a client desires to communicate regarding specific aspects of his finances or financial matters generally. As discussed above such parties may include for example billing parties e.g. utility companies credit card companies etc. . Billing parties may present to the host system electronic bills payable by customers associated with clients . The electronic bills may be posted to a customer s account allowing the customer to pay the bills with a transfer from a financial account. A financial account may be any type of account held by a customer at a financial institution where the financial institution keeps funds of the customer e.g. checking accounts savings accounts investment accounts etc. . According to various embodiments parties may also be non billing parties who have an ongoing financial relationship with a customer e.g. parents or other family members roommates or business partners of other customers or other parties who have need to communicate with customers utilizing clients .

The transfer window may provide information and functionality for requesting and effecting a transfer of funds from a first party to a second party. For example window may comprise an indication of a bill e.g. electronic or otherwise as well as a text message accompanying a transfer or transfer request. Optional window may summarize an amount requested or an amount to be transferred and may in various embodiments also include the text message accompanying the transfer or transfer request. Buttons may allow a customer to add a message to a transfer request or transfer button add an indication of a bill to a transfer or transfer request button indicate an amount requested or an amount to be transferred button and or post the request and or transfer to an account of at least one other customer button .

At box the system may receive an instruction from the first party to initiate a transfer request. For example the instruction may be handled by a transfer application which may be resident on the application server and a transfer user interface such as interface which may be generated by the application server the web server or any other suitable component of the system .

At box the system may receive an indication of a bill associated with the transfer request. The bill may be any sort of bill indicating indebtedness between the first party and the second party e.g. the recipient of the transfer request . For example the first party and the second party may be roommates and the bill may be a bill received from one of the parties e.g. a utility for the home apartment etc. shared by the first party and the second party. According to various embodiments the bill may be an electronic bill which the first party may or may not have remitted to the billing party. Accordingly the first party may provide the indication of the bill by selecting it from a list of electronic bills which may be displayed by the user interface. Also according to various embodiments the bill may be a paper bill that has been mailed to the first party. The first party may then provide a textual description of the bill e.g. an amount a billing party etc. which may be included in the text message described below. In addition to or instead of providing a textual description the first party may create and upload an electronic copy of the paper bill e.g. by scanning or otherwise digitizing the paper bill . The bill may also be a contract or an indication of any other kind of agreement or arrangement between the first party and the second party.

The first party may add a bill to the transfer request for example by selecting the Add Bill button from the interface . In response the system may cause the interface to display a list of electronic bills handled by the first party by the financial institution. The first party may then select the bill from the list. If the bill is not an electronic bill the system may cause the interface to prompt the first party to provide the textual description of the bill and or generate and provide an electronic copy of the paper bill. It will be appreciated that a single transfer request may according to various embodiments include more than one bill.

At box the system may receive a text message associated with the transfer request from the first party. According to various embodiments the text message may be a series of characters setting forth a message from the first party to the second party. For example the text message may set forth the reasons for the request and any other background information selected by the first party. According to various embodiments the text message may indicate a requested amount. Also according to various embodiments the first party may cause the system to launch a text editor for entering the text message and or upload a pre generated text message by selecting the Messages button from the user interface . At box the system may receive from the first party an indication of the second party. If there are recipients of the transfer request other than the second party these may also be indicated. For example there may be multiple recipients of the transfer request when the bill is regarding a residence having more than two roommates.

At box the system may receive a requested amount from the first party. If the requested amount is included in the text message this step may be omitted. The requested amount may represent a share of the bill that is owed by the second party e.g. some or all of the bill . When there the second party is not the only recipient each recipient may have an associated requested amount. The requested amounts from different recipients may be the same or different. According to various embodiments the system may include functionality for calculating a requested amount. For example the system may receive as input from the first party a number of roommates or other parties among whom the bill will be divided. When the system is not otherwise aware of the amount due on the bill it may also receive that value from the first party. The amount due on the bill may then be divided among the first party and the second party and other recipients if any according to any suitable method. For example the amount due may be divided pro rata. Also according to various embodiments the amount due may be divided according to pre determined percentages provided for example by the first party. The first party may enter a method for calculating the requested amount or initiate a calculation of a requested amount for example by selecting Send button from the interface .

At box the system may post the transfer request to an account of the second party and other recipients if any . Posting the transfer request to an account may involve storing the transfer request to a storage device e.g. a database corresponding to an account area accessible by the second party or other recipient for example as described above. The first party may request that the transfer request be posted by selecting the Post button from the interface . The transfer request may be presented to the second party in a manner similar to the way that an electronic bill is presented. The transfer request may comprise the indication of the bill and the text message. According to various embodiments the transfer request may also comprise the indication of the requested amount. When an electronic copy of the bill is present either because the bill is an electronic bill or if an electronic copy of the bill is received from the first party the transfer request may comprise the electronic copy of the bill. When there is more than one recipient the system may post the same transfer request to the accounts of all recipients or may generate separate transfer requests for each recipient. When one or more of the recipients is not a customer of the financial institution implementing the system posting the transfer request may comprise transmitting the transfer request to at least one additional financial institution used by the second party and or another recipient.

Referring back to the process flow at box the system may receive from the second party an amount to be transferred. The second party may enter this amount for example by selecting the Send button from the interface . If an indication of a requested amount is present in a transfer request the amount to be transferred may or may not match the requested amount. For example the second party may dispute the requested amount or may simply not have the funds necessary to pay the requested amount. While responding to a transfer request and or generating a transfer without a transfer request the second party may view the information window to gain an indication of the funds that the second party has available in his or her various financial accounts.

At box the system may receive a text message associated with the transfer. The text message may include characters conveying any type of message from the second party to the first party. According to various embodiments the system may launch a text editor or prompt the second party to upload a pre generated text message in response to the second party actuating the Messages button . At box the system may post a receipt of the transfer to the first party s account. For example posting the receipt to an account may involve storing the transfer request at a storage device corresponding to an account area accessible by the first party. The receipt may comprise an electronic copy of the bill the amount to be transferred and the text message provided by the second party. At box the system may transfer the amount to be transferred from a financial account of the second party to a financial account of the first party.

At box the second party may direct a transfer to the first party for example as described above with respect to process flow . The amount to be transferred may then be moved from a financial account of the second party to a financial account of the first party at box . The amount transferred may be equal to a requested amount and or an amount of the bill that is owed by the second party. According to various embodiments boxes and may be omitted. For example the second party may initiate a transfer request at box before the first party has paid the bill and or before the first party has made a transfer request.

The interface may be provided to all of the parties however some features e.g. adding and subtracting bills adding and subtracting parties etc. may not be available to all parties. The interface may be initiated by one party referred to as an originating party. The originating party may then invite their roommates or other individuals with whom they share expenses to become parties according to any suitable method. For example the originating party or other user may select the add partner button . This may cause the user interface to prompt the originating party or other party to identify a potential party. The potential party may then be provided with a communication inviting them to become a party. The communication may take various forms. For example the communication may be an e mail sent to a personal e mail account of the potential party. The communication may also be an e mail sent to an account of the potential party associated with the financial institution e.g. implemented by e mail server or any other suitable message type provided to the potential party by the financial institution. This communication may include a link to the interface . When the originating party and the potential party are not customers of the same financial institution e.g. the financial institution implementing the user interface then the communication may include in invitation for the potential party to open an account with the originating party s financial institution. Some embodiments however do not require a potential party to have an account with the financial institution implementing the interface .

Referring now to the Expenses field new expenses may be added for example by selecting the Add Expense button . Each expense listed at field may have an associated Edit button and Delete button . illustrates one embodiment of a screen of the user interface that may be presented to an originating party or other user allowing them to enter and or modify the terms of a shared expense. For example the screen may be shown when the Add Expense button and or one of the Edit buttons is selected. As shown in the screen relates to grocery expenses. Partners field may list each party. A percentage field may list a portion of the shared expense owed by each party. A comment field may allow comments regarding each party s obligation to be entered. In some embodiments the screen may default to a pro rata distribution of the expense. For example the embodiment shown in includes four parties so a default distribution may have 25 of the expense attributed to each party. The originating party or other user however may be able to change the distribution of the expense for various reasons. For example as illustrated in a grocery expense is split between two parties while the other two parties pay none of that expense. The reason for this distribution is entered at comment field . In some embodiments parties who do not have responsibility for an expense may not be listed at Partners field .

Expenses may paid from the parties financial accounts according to any suitable method. For example a party selected from the group may be responsible for each expense e.g. the expense may be ultimately paid from the financial account of the responsible party . Other parties sharing a given expense may transfer funds to the financial account of the responsible party to cover their responsibility. The responsible party may be the originating party or any other party selected from the group. According to various embodiments different parties may be responsible for different expenses. In some embodiments the financial institution may set up an account shared by all of the parties. Expenses may be paid from the shared financial account and all parties sharing a given expense may transfer funds to the shared financial account to cover their share.

When an expense is received it may be posted to the user interface . An expense may be received for example when it is accrued and or when a bill for the expense is received. Expenses may be posted according to any suitable manner. For example the responsible partner may manually post an expense. Also for example an expense may be posted automatically e.g. after an electronic bill is received for the expense and or according to a periodic schedule . Once an expense is posted to the interface it may be shown at Payment History field . Also illustrates one embodiment of a screen of the user interface showing a posting of an expense. The screen may include information about the expense including for example a billing party an amount of the expense a due date and a target pay date. The responsible party may prepare transfer requests to the other parties or the transfer request may be generated automatically. illustrates one embodiment of the user interface having an indication that a transfer request has been received. This view may be shown to parties from whom a transfer is requested.

A transfer request may be accessed by the parties according to any suitable method. For example a transfer request may be communicated to the parties as an e mail. illustrates one embodiment of a transfer request e mail . The e mail may include a text message as well as other components including for example a requested amount a due date etc. The party may complete the requested transfer according to any suitable method including for example by replying to the e mail. illustrates one embodiment of a transfer request mobile phone message . The message may be similar to the e mail but may be formatted to be received on a mobile phone e.g. Short Message Service SMS format . Again the party may complete the requested transfer according to any suitable method including for example by replying to the message .

Various embodiments may be directed to systems and methods for reimbursing bank customers for completed transactions. This functionality may be utilized in a variety of settings. For example a college student may utilize the system to request reimbursement from a parent or other individual for expenses such as books food etc. Expense reimbursement may also be useful to roommates in the context described above. For example one roommate may pay a bill and request reimbursement for all or a portion of the bill from the other roommates. Also for example friends or family may request reimbursement for various items including for example commonly given gifts meals etc.

Where the expense is an electronic bill from a billing party it may be automatically paid upon receipt of all requested transfers from the parties. According to various embodiments the expense may also be automatically paid at a predetermined time on or in advance of a due date for the expense regardless of whether all requested transfers have been received by the responsible partner. Once an expense is paid it may be marked as being paid at the Payment History field . illustrates one embodiment of the user interface indicating that a cable expense has been paid. If an expense is paid before all of the requested transfers are received parties who have not yet made the requested payment may receive a reminder. illustrates one embodiment of a Payment Due Reminder screen of the user interface . In some embodiments the sending of the reminder may be posted to the Payment History field as shown in .

The interface may comprise a transaction history window that may list individual transactions on the first customers account including for example transactions that have cleared the first customer s account and transactions that are pending on the first customer s account. The example user interface includes other optional features. For example a spending overview window comprises a bar graph illustrating the break down of transactions on the account by spending category. A cash flow field may graphically indicate the amount of money that has been transferred into the account relative to the amount of money that has been transferred out of the account for example over a month or other suitable period. A limit field may illustrate how much money the first customer has remaining from a periodic e.g. monthly budget.

Each transaction may be indicated by a row of the transaction history window . Columns of the transaction history window may indicate various information about the transaction including for example a date of the transaction a description of the transaction a category of the transaction a deposit if any associated with the transaction a debit if any association with the transaction and an available balance in the account after the transaction has cleared . Various other transactions may be presented in other columns that may be displayed in addition to or instead of the columns shown. In addition the transaction history window may comprise a reimbursement column . To request reimbursement for a transaction the first customer may select the reimbursement column at the row corresponding to the transaction to be reimbursed. Accordingly referring back to the system may receive an indication of the transaction to be reimbursed .

A subject field and a body field may provide the first customer with a space to enter a text message to the request recipient. In this way the system e.g. application server may receive the text message . According to various embodiments the subject field may be pre populated. For example the subject field may indicate that the request is a reimbursement request and is from the first customer. The first customer may have the ability to modify the subject field. The body field may give the first customer an opportunity to enter a personalized message to the recipient. The message for example may explain the nature of the request.

A transaction description field may list the description of the transaction for example from column of the transaction window . In some embodiments this window may not be editable by the first user. This may prevent the first user from misrepresenting the nature of the transaction to the recipient. A reimbursement amount field may be pre populated with an indication of the amount of the transaction to be reimbursed. According to various embodiments the first customer may be able to modify the reimbursement amount to request more or less than the amount of the transaction. In this way the system may receive the reimbursement amount e.g. either the pre populated amount or an amount modified by the first customer . In some embodiments it may not be possible for the first customer to enter a reimbursement amount that is more than the amount of the transaction. For example when the first customer is a college student it may be desirable to prevent the college student from requesting a reimbursement higher than their actual expense.

When the information displayed by the interface is acceptable to the first customer the first customer may activate the Send button to initiate the packaging and transmission of the reimbursement request. Packaging of the reimbursement request may involve taking the information shown and or received by the interface and converting it into an e mail or other message format e.g. Internet e mail format a proprietary format etc. . For example the request may be formatted into a standard e mail format that includes extra fields for the transaction description and the reimbursement amount.

The transmission of the reimbursement request may take different forms in different embodiments. For example in embodiments where the recipient of the reimbursement request is also a customer of the financial institution the reimbursement request may be recorded in a database and made available to the recipient via the Internet UI upon their next log in. According to various embodiments a reminder or indication that the request has been received may be sent to a client device associated with the recipient such as for example a palmtop computer or mobile phone. Also for example the e mail server may direct the indication as an e mail to an external account associated with the recipient. In embodiments where the recipient is not a customer of the financial institution the reimbursement request may be sent directly to the recipient at an external e mail e.g. not associated with the financial institution or other account. In some embodiments the non customer recipient may have previously set up a limited account with the financial institution allowing the non customer to be provided with a limited version of the Internet UI suitable for responding to reimbursement requests.

Referring back to the interface may include various information including a sender field a subject field and a request date field . A transaction description field and request amount field may also be provided. Buttons and may allow the recipient to accept button or decline button the request.

As used herein a computer computer system host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various embodiments described herein or components or parts thereof may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware or modules thereof. The software code or specialized control hardware used to implement some of the present embodiments is not limiting of the present invention. For example the embodiments described hereinabove may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer programming language such as .NET SQL MySQL or HTML using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Programming languages for computer software and other computer implemented instructions may be translated into machine language by a compiler or an assembler before execution and or may be translated directly at run time by an interpreter. Examples of assembly languages include ARM MIPS and x86 examples of high level languages include Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java Lisp Pascal Object Pascal and examples of scripting languages include Bourne script JavaScript Python Ruby PHP and Perl. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments are described without specific reference to the actual software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments of the present invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks e.g. 20 70 to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

The computer network may be characterized based on functional relationships among the elements or components of the network such as active networking client server or peer to peer functional architecture. The computer network may be classified according to network topology such as bus network star network ring network mesh network star bus network or hierarchical topology network for example. The computer network may also be classified based on the method employed for data communication such as digital and analog networks.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may employ internetworking for connecting two or more distinct electronic computer networks or network segments through a common routing technology. The type of internetwork employed may depend on administration and or participation in the internetwork. Non limiting examples of internetworks include intranet extranet and Internet. Intranets and extranets may or may not have connections to the Internet. If connected to the Internet the intranet or extranet may be protected with appropriate authentication technology or other security measures. As applied herein an intranet can be a group of networks which employ Internet Protocol web browsers and or file transfer applications under common control by an administrative entity. Such an administrative entity could restrict access to the intranet to only authorized users for example or another internal network of an organization or commercial entity. As applied herein an extranet may include a network or internetwork generally limited to a primary organization or entity but which also has limited connections to the networks of one or more other trusted organizations or entities e.g. customers of an entity may be given access an intranet of the entity thereby creating an extranet .

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

In various embodiments computers and computer systems described herein may have the following main components arithmetic and logic unit ALU control unit memory and input and output devices I O devices . These components can be interconnected by busses often comprising groups of wires or cables. The control unit ALU registers and basic I O and often other hardware closely linked with these sections can be collectively considered a central processing unit CPU for the computer system. The CPU may be constructed on a single integrated circuit or microprocessor.

The control unit control system or central controller directs the various components of a computer system. The control system decodes each instruction in a computer program and turns it into a series of control signals that operate other components of the computer system. To enhance performance or efficiency of operation the control system may alter the order of instructions. One component of the control unit is the program counter a memory register that tracks the location in memory from which the next instruction is to be read.

The ALU is capable of performing arithmetic and logic operations. The set of arithmetic operations that a particular ALU supports may be limited to adding and subtracting or might include multiplying or dividing trigonometry functions sine cosine etc. and square roots. Some may be programmed to operate on whole numbers integers while others use floating point to represent real numbers for example. An ALU may also compare numbers and return Boolean truth values e.g. true or false . Superscalar computers may contain multiple ALUs to facilitate processing multiple instructions at the same time. For example graphics processors and computers with SIMD and MIMD features often possess ALUs that can perform arithmetic operations on vectors and matrices. Certain computer systems may include one or more RAM cache memories configured to move more frequently needed data into the cache automatically.

Examples of peripherals that may be used in connection with certain embodiments of the invention include input output devices such as keyboards mice screen displays monitors printers hard disk drives floppy disk drives joysticks and image scanners.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may divide functions between separate CPUs creating a multiprocessing configuration. For example multiprocessor and multi core multiple CPUs on a single integrated circuit computer systems with co processing capabilities may be employed. Also multitasking may be employed as a computer processing technique to handle simultaneous execution of multiple computer programs.

In various embodiments the various servers etc. described herein may be configured and or programmed to include one or more of the above described electronic computer based elements and components. In addition these elements and components may be particularly configured to execute the various rules algorithms programs processes and method steps described herein.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

