---

title: Integrating a web-based CRM system with a PIM client application
abstract: A customer relationship management (CRM) system utilizes a form definition, user interface (UI) definitions, and UI code to generate Web pages for interacting with CRM data. A CRM plug-in is configured to execute in conjunction with a personal information manager (PIM) client application and to utilize the same form definition, UI definitions, and UI code utilized by the CRM system to generate the Web-based CRM interface. The UI definitions are utilized to present UI controls for performing CRM-related functionality in the context of a UI generated by the PIM client application. The UI code utilized by the CRM system to implement Web-based UI controls can be utilized to implement the UI controls in the context of the PIM client application. The form definition utilized by the CRM system might be utilized to display CRM fields in the UI presented by the PIM client application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390399&OS=09390399&RS=09390399
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09390399
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100622
---
Customer relationship management CRM systems allow users to create and utilize information relevant to business relationships. For instance a CRM system may allow users to create view edit modify and otherwise utilize information regarding customers or potential customers contact with the customers sales made to customers customer support information marketing information and other types of information that may be relevant to a business relationship or potential business relationship. CRM systems typically provide a World Wide Web Web based user interface UI for performing this functionality. As an example a CRM system might provide a Web based UI through which a user can send electronic mail e mail messages to customers or potential customers manage appointments with customers and perform other business tasks.

While the Web based UIs provided by most CRM systems are robust many users still prefer to utilize a personal information manager PIM client application program to send and receive e mail to manage appointments and to perform other customer related tasks. Currently however users typically have to choose between leveraging the features provided by Web based CRM systems such as e mail templates and the rich e mail experience provided by PIM client application programs. For instance some users might compose new e mail messages using a PIM client application and then utilize the Web UI provided by a CRM system to perform actions on the e mail messages. Using both a PIM client application and a Web based CRM system can be a time consuming and frustrating process for some users.

Technologies are described herein for integrating a Web based CRM system and a PIM client application. Through the utilization of the technologies and concepts presented herein the functionality provided by a Web based UI generated by a CRM system may be integrated within a UI provided by a PIM client application program. In this manner a user of the PIM client application can perform actions on CRM data directly within the PIM client application without having to utilize the Web based UI provided by the CRM system.

According to one aspect presented herein a CRM system utilizes a form definition UI definitions UI code and validation code to generate Web pages for accessing and interacting with CRM data. For instance the CRM system might generate a Web page for sending an e mail message to a customer. The form definition defines one or more CRM fields to be provided in the e mail message. The UI definitions define one or more UI controls for performing CRM related functionality that should be presented in the Web page. The UI code comprises code for implementing the functionality provided by the UI controls when selected. The validation code comprises code for validating data entered into the CRM fields on the Web page.

In order to enable CRM functionality within the PIM client application a CRM plug in may be executed in conjunction with the PIM client application in one embodiment. The CRM plug in is configured to utilize the same form definition UI definitions UI code and validation code utilized by the CRM system to generate the Web based CRM interface. For instance when a new CRM related e mail message is created within the PIM client application the UI definitions might be utilized to present UI controls for performing CRM related functionality. When a UI control is selected the same UI code utilized by the CRM system to implement Web based UI controls can be utilized to implement the functionality provided by the selected UI control in the context of the PIM client application.

According to other aspects the form definition utilized by the CRM system to generate fields in a Web page might be utilized to display CRM fields in the UI presented by the PIM client application. For instance CRM fields for inputting and displaying CRM data can be displaying along with standard e mail fields e.g. to cc subject etc. in an e mail message. The validation code utilized by the CRM system when validating input made to Web pages might also be utilized in the context of the PIM client application to validate data input into the CRM fields. Data entered into the CRM fields can be posted to the CRM system for storage and the e mail message can be associated with CRM objects maintained by the CRM system. These concepts might also be utilized with other UIs presented by the PIM client application such as UIs for creating and managing appointments and others.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may also be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to concepts and technologies for integrating a Web based CRM system and a PIM client application. A CRM system utilizes form definitions UI definitions and UI code to generate Web pages for interacting with CRM data. A CRM plug in is configured to execute in conjunction with a PIM client application and to utilize the same form definitions UI definitions and UI code utilized by the CRM system to generate the Web based CRM interface. The UI definitions are utilized to present UI controls for performing CRM related functionality in the context of a UI generated by the PIM client application. The UI code utilized by the CRM system to implement Web based UI controls can be utilized to implement the UI controls in the context of the PIM client application. The form definition utilized by the CRM system might be utilized to display CRM fields in the UI presented by the PIM client application.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements through the several figures aspects of a computing system methodology and computer readable storage medium for integrating a Web based CRM system and a PIM client application will be described.

Turning now to details will be provided regarding one embodiment presented herein for integrating a Web based CRM system and a PIM client application. In particular is a network diagram showing one illustrative operating environment for the embodiments presented herein. As shown in the environment includes a CRM client computer that is coupled to a CRM server computer by way of a network . The CRM client computer comprises a standard desktop laptop or other type of computing device configured to execute a PIM client application and a CRM plug in .

The PIM client application comprises a program for viewing managing and otherwise interacting with personal information such as electronic mail messages contacts a calendar tasks notes to do list items and other personal information that may be maintained by a user of the CRM client computer . The PIM client application may maintain a database storing the personal information. The PIM client application may also interact with one or more server computers that also store a database containing a user s personal information.

According to embodiments the PIM client application may be configured to provide functionality for sending and receiving e mail messages. For instance the PIM client application might provide a UI for allowing a user to create a new e mail message. The PIM client application might also allow the user to send the e mail message to a desired recipient through one or more e mail server computers such as the mail server computer that executes the mail server application . The PIM client application might also provide functionality for allowing the user to create calendar items maintain a contacts list create to do list items and to perform other functions. In one embodiment the PIM client application comprises the OUTLOOK PIM client application from MICROSOFT CORPORATION. It should be appreciated that the technologies disclosed herein might be implemented with other PIM client applications. The technologies presented herein might also be implemented with other types of client applications other than PIM client applications.

The CRM client computer may also execute a Web browser in one embodiment. As known to those skilled in the art the Web browser is a computer program that is configured to request receive and render Web pages and associated content. For instance in one implementation the CRM server computer which may be referred to herein as the CRM system is configured to execute a CRM server application that provides a Web based interface to CRM data. As discussed briefly above CRM data refers to any data maintained by an organization that is relevant to an existing or potential customer relationship. For instance CRM data may include but is not limited to information regarding customers contact with the customers sales made to customers customer support information marketing information and other types of information that may be relevant to a customer relationship or potential customer relationship.

Through the use of the Web browser a user of the CRM client computer may utilize the Web based CRM functionality provided by the CRM server computer . As an example the CRM server computer might provide a Web based UI through which a user of the CRM client computer can send e mail messages to customers or potential customers manage appointments with customers and perform other business tasks. The Web based UI provided by the CRM server computer might also provide functionality for performing other CRM related tasks. Additional details regarding the provision of a Web based UI for performing CRM tasks by the CRM server computer will be provided below with regard to .

According to one implementation the PIM client application is also configured to execute in conjunction with a CRM plug in . The CRM plug in operates in conjunction with the PIM client application to provide functionality for allowing a user of the CRM client computer to view modify and otherwise interact with CRM data. The functionality provided by the CRM plug in may be integrated with the operation of the PIM client application such that a user interface provided by the CRM server computer is integrated with a user interface provided by the PIM client application . In this manner a user of the CRM client computer may access view and modify CRM data directly from within the PIM client application utilizing the functionality provided by the CRM plug in .

The CRM plug in is configured to operate in conjunction with the CRM server application executing on the CRM server computer . As discussed briefly above the CRM server computer provides functionality for allowing users to create and utilize CRM data. The CRM server computer is a standard server computer configured to execute the CRM server application and potentially other applications. As illustrated in the CRM server application maintains a CRM server database . The CRM server database is utilized to store CRM data. Through the functionality provided by the CRM plug in a user of the CRM client computer can retrieve view and modify CRM data stored in the CRM server database .

According to one embodiment the Web based UI provided by the CRM server computer and the PIM client application are integrated. In particular the functionality provided by the Web based UI generated by a CRM server computer is integrated within a UI provided by the PIM client application . In this manner a user of the PIM client application can perform actions on CRM data directly within the PIM client application without having to utilize a Web browser application program to access the Web based UI provided by the CRM server computer .

In order to provide the functionality disclosed herein the CRM plug in may utilize one or more application programming interfaces APIs exposed by the PIM client application . For instance the CRM plug in is configured in one embodiment to display UI controls for performing CRM functions in an inspector UI generated by the PIM client application . As an example when a user of the CRM client computer creates a new e mail message the PIM client application might display a UI interface for inspecting and setting the properties of the e mail message referred to herein as an inspector . When such a UI is displayed the CRM plug in might utilize public APIs exposed by the PIM client application to cause UI controls for performing CRM functions to be displayed in the inspector UI. In the event that CRM fields already exist in the PIM application those fields might be utilized by mapping the existing CRM data into those fields. In this manner the user is permitted to utilize the potentially more familiar PIM application controls as opposed to the CRM fields generated by the CRM plug in.

The CRM plug in might also utilize one or more public APIs exposed by the PIM client application to cause data fields for viewing and entering CRM data referred to herein as CRM fields to be displayed within the inspector UI. A user of the CRM client computer can then enter data in the CRM fields. The provided data may then be published to the CRM server application and stored in the CRM database . Additional details regarding various processes by which the CRM plug in causes UI controls and CRM fields to be displayed in an inspector UI generated by the PIM client application will be described below with regard to . It should be appreciated that while an inspector UI for creating an e mail message is utilized herein to illustrate the disclosed embodiments inspector UIs and other types of UIs for inspecting other types of data might also be utilized. For instance inspectors displayed by the PIM client application for inspecting contacts meetings to do items might also be utilized in conjunction with the embodiments disclosed herein.

It should be appreciated that while the embodiments described herein have been presented in the context of a CRM plug in that executes in conjunction with a CRM server application the embodiments presented herein might be utilized with any business application plug in. A business plug in is a plug in that operates in conjunction with a PIM client application to access any kind of business data. Additionally it should also be appreciated that the embodiments presented herein might be utilized in other types of operating environments. For instance the functionality described herein might be utilized by a standalone application for interacting with CRM or other types of business data that does not utilize a plug in component. The functionality presented herein might also be integrated directly within the PIM client application . Other types of implementations will also be apparent to those skilled in the art.

As shown in the CRM client computer and the CRM server computer communicate over the network . The network is a computing network configured for enabling data communications between the CRM client computer and the CRM server computer . In one embodiment the network comprises the Internet however it should be appreciated that the network may comprise any type of local area or wide area network. Additionally the network has been shown in a simplified form. Therefore it should be appreciated that the network may comprise many different networking components and computer systems distributed over a large geographic area. It should also be appreciated that although illustrates only a single CRM client computer and a single CRM server computer being connected to the network many other computing devices may also be connected to the network and enabled for data communication over the network .

Referring now to several user interface diagrams showing aspects of a UI A B provided by the PIM client application and the CRM plug in will be described. In particular shows an inspector UI A generated by the PIM client application . The example UI A shown in is generated by the PIM client application in response to receiving a request from a user of the CRM client computer to create a new e mail message. The UI A includes a number of standard user interface controls and native fields that are typically provided when a user requests to create a new e mail message. For instance the UI A includes UI controls for attaching files inserting a signature checking names and for performing other functions. The UI A also shows native e mail fields for specifying one or more e mail addresses for the recipient of the e mail message carbon copy recipients and a subject for the new e mail message.

In addition to the UI controls and e mail fields generated by the PIM client application the UI A also includes a number of UI controls A H that have been generated by the CRM plug in . As discussed above the CRM plug in might utilize one or more APIs exposed by the PIM client application to cause the UI controls A H to be displayed in the UI A. The UI controls B H provide functionality for performing CRM related tasks with respect to the newly created e mail message. For instance the UI control B will cause an e mail template to be inserted into the new e mail message when selected. The UI control C will cause a knowledgebase article to be inserted into the new e mail message when selected. The UI control D will cause literature to be inserted or attached to the new e mail message. For instance sales literature or other types of documents might be attached to the e mail message through the selection of the UI control D. As discussed above in the event that CRM fields already exist in the PIM application those fields might be utilized by mapping the existing CRM data into those fields. This prevents duplication of fields and allows a user to work within the UI provided directly by the PIM client application whenever possible.

Selection of the UI control E will cause the new e mail message to be tracked by the CRM server application . Selection of the UI control F will cause a CRM object maintained by the CRM server application corresponding to the new e mail message to be displayed. For instance a Web page provided by the CRM server application showing details about the corresponding CRM object may be displayed by the Web browser . The UI control G will cause the newly created e mail message to be converted to a CRM activity in the CRM database . For instance the newly created e mail message might be converted to a follow up object indicating that a follow up should be made with a customer that is the subject of the e mail message. The UI control H may be selected in order to correlate one CRM entity with another CRM entity. For instance the e mail message that is the subject of the UI A may be correlated with another CRM object in the CRM database .

It should be appreciated that the UI controls B H are merely illustrative and that fewer or additional UI controls might also be displayed within the UI A utilizing the technologies presented herein. Additional details regarding the various processes utilized by the CRM plug in to cause the UI controls B H to be displayed within the UI A provided by the PIM client application will be described below with reference to .

As also shown in a CRM field A has also been displayed by the CRM plug in in the UI A generated by the PIM client application . As discussed briefly above the PIM client application might utilize one or more APIs exposed by the Web browser and the PIM client application to display CRM data fields for viewing and entering CRM data. In the UI A the CRM plug in has caused the PIM client application to display the field A. The field A can be utilized to specify CRM data that indicates what the e mail message that is the subject of the UI A is regarding. Additionally the UI control A may also be selected in order to view other CRM fields that may be specified in conjunction with the newly created e mail message. When the UI control A is selected the user interface B shown in is displayed by the PIM client application .

The UI B shown in includes the UI controls A H. The UI B also includes a number of additional CRM fields B G. As discussed above the CRM fields B G correspond to CRM data stored in the CRM database . The CRM fields B G may be utilized by a user of the CRM client computer to add additional CRM data to the newly created e mail message. The data specified by way of the CRM fields B G and mapped PIM fields can be stored in the CRM database . A user may select the UI controls to return to the UI A shown in .

As will be described in greater detail below with respect to the CRM plug in utilizes the same components in order to cause the PIM client application to display the user interface controls A H and the CRM fields A G that the CRM server application utilizes to provide a Web based user interface for creating a new e mail message. By utilizing the same components the user interface provided by the PIM client application can provide functionality that is consistent with the functionality provided by the CRM server application . Additional details regarding the processes by which the CRM plug in utilizes components that are also utilized by the CRM server application to provide a Web based UI will be provided below with respect to .

Turning now to additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein for integrating a Web based CRM system and a PIM client application. In particular is a flow diagram showing a routine that shows aspects of the operation the CRM server computer for providing a Web based UI for performing CRM tasks in one embodiment disclosed herein. will be described in conjunction with .

It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in a different order than those described herein.

The routine begins at operation where the CRM server application receives a request for a Web page. For instance the CRM server application may receive a request from the Web browser for a Web page for sending a new e mail message. In response to receiving such a request the CRM server application utilizes the form definitions to determine the fields that should be placed in the Web page. For instance the form definitions may specify that the CRM fields A G are to be included on the Web page for creating a new e mail message. Once the CRM server application has determined the fields to be placed on the Web page the routine proceeds from operation to operation .

At operation the CRM server application utilizes the user interface definitions to determine the UI controls to be displayed on the Web page. The UI definitions might specify that the UI controls B H should be displayed on the Web page for creating the e mail message. From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the CRM server application includes UI code in the Web page for implementing the functionality for the UI controls identified at operation . For instance script code for implementing the functionality behind the UI controls might be included in the Web page. Other types of code for implementing the UI controls might also be generated and inserted into the Web page.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the CRM server application includes validation code in the Web page. The validation code comprises program code for validating user input into the fields displayed on the Web page. For instance the validation code might comprise scripts or other types of executable code configured to impose certain restrictions on the types of data that might be entered by way of the CRM fields shown in the Web page.

Once the Web page has been generated by the CRM server application the Web page is provided to the Web browser at operation . As discussed above the Web page includes CRM fields specified by the form definitions UI controls specified by the UI definitions UI code for implementing the UI controls and optionally validation code for validating user input in to the displayed fields.

The Web browser renders the Web page provided by the CRM server application at operation . A user of the CRM client computer may then interact with the Web page by selecting the UI controls entering data into the CRM fields and performing other functions. The user may also elect to send the e mail message defined by way of the Web page through the CRM server application . Data specified by way of the CRM fields may then be stored in the CRM database and the sent e mail message may be tracked by the CRM server application . From operation the routine proceeds to operation where it ends.

Referring now to a flow diagram showing a routine that illustrates aspects of the operation of the CRM plug in for integrating the Web based CRM server computer and the PIM client application in one embodiment presented herein will be described. will be described in conjunction with .

The routine begins at operation where the PIM client application receives a request to send an e mail message from the PIM client application . As discussed above the PIM client application might utilize an e mail server computer in order to send e mail messages. In response to receiving the request to send a new e mail message the PIM client application displays a UI for creating the new e mail message. For instance the UIs A B shown in and described above may be generated. As also discussed above the UI controls A H may be displayed within the user interfaces A B by the CRM plug in . In order to cause the UI controls A H to be displayed in the UIs A B the CRM plug in retrieves the UI definitions from the CRM server at operation . The UI definitions are the same UI definitions utilized by the CRM server application to generate the Web based user interface described above.

Once the CRM plug in has retrieved the UI definitions from the CRM server computer the CRM plug in identifies the UI controls that should be displayed in the UIs A B based on the retrieved UI definitions . In one embodiment some UI controls may be pre defined UI controls that are mandatory and that must be displayed by the CRM plug in . Other user defined controls may also be specified within the UI definitions . An administrator of the CRM server computer may specify the user specified UI controls. According to one embodiment the CRM plug in is configured to identify a subset of the UI controls specified by the UI definitions . For instance the CRM plug in might identify a subset of the specified controls that is appropriate for inclusion within a particular UI such as an e mail inspector UI.

Once the CRM plug in has identified the UI controls A H that should be displayed within the UIs A B the routine proceeds from operation to operation where the CRM plug in causes the identified UI controls to be displayed in the UI A B generated by the PIM client application . As discussed above the CRM plug in might utilize one or more public APIs exposed by the PIM client application in order to cause the UI controls A H to be displayed in the UI A B.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the CRM plug in retrieves the form definitions from the CRM server computer . The form definitions retrieved by the CRM plug in are the same form definitions utilized by the CRM server application to provide the Web based UI described above. As also discussed above the form definitions specify the CRM fields A G that should be displayed by the CRM plug in within the UI A B. According to embodiments the CRM plug in might identify a subset of the fields specified within the form definitions to be displayed within the UIs A B. For instance the CRM plug in might identify a subset of the specified fields that do not overlap with the fields natively displayed by the PIM client application such as the e mail recipients carbon copy recipients and subject of an e mail message.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the CRM plug in causes the PIM client application to display the fields A G as defined by the form definitions in the UI A B. The routine then proceeds to operation where a determination is made as to whether one of the UI controls A H has been selected. If so the routine proceeds to operation where the UI code is executed in order to implement the functionality provided by the selected UI controls A H. The UI code executed to implement the functionality provided by the UI control in the context of the PIM client application is the same UI code that is utilized in order to implement UI controls provided by way of the Web user interface provided by the CRM server application . The UI code is implemented within an invisible frame in one embodiment presented herein. From operation the routine proceeds to operation .

At operation a determination is made as to whether data has been entered into the CRM fields A G. If so the routine proceeds from operation to operation . At operation the validation code is executed in order to validate the user input. The validation code executed in the context of the PIM client application is the same validation code that executes within the Web browser in order to validate user input provided by way of the Web interface generated by the CRM server application . The validation code is implemented within an invisible frame in one embodiment presented herein.

According to one implementation the validation code is also configured to validate input made to the native fields displayed by the PIM client application in the UI A B. For instance the validation code can be configured to validate input made to the message recipient carbon copy recipient and subject fields displayed by the PIM client application in the UIs A B. From operation the routine proceeds to operation where it ends.

It should be appreciated that although the form definitions UI definitions UI code and validation code have been illustrated in as being stored separately these components may be stored together. For instance in one embodiment a single hypertext markup language HTML document might define the fields to be shown on a Web page the UI controls to be shown on the page and include code such as JAVASCRIPT for implementing the UI controls and for validating user input. Other implementations might also be utilized.

The computer architecture shown in includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system application programs and other program modules which will be described in greater detail below.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable storage media can be any available computer storage media that can be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . As used herein the term computer readable storage media does not encompass transitory signals.

According to various embodiments the computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the network . The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display screen a printer or other type of output device also not shown in .

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked desktop laptop or server computer. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store the PIM client application the CRM plug in the Web browser and the other program modules described above with respect to . The mass storage device and RAM may also store other program modules and data.

In general software applications or modules may when loaded into the CPU and executed transform the CPU and the overall computer from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computing system customized to perform the functionality presented herein. The CPU may be constructed from any number of transistors or other discrete circuit elements which may individually or collectively assume any number of states. More specifically the CPU may operate as one or more finite state machines in response to executable instructions contained within the software or modules. These computer executable instructions may transform the CPU by specifying how the CPU transitions between states thereby physically transforming the transistors or other discrete hardware elements constituting the CPU .

Encoding the software or modules onto a mass storage device may also transform the physical structure of the mass storage device or associated computer readable storage media. The specific transformation of physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the computer readable storage media whether the computer readable storage media are characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like. For example if the computer readable storage media is implemented as semiconductor based memory the software or modules may transform the physical state of the semiconductor memory when the software is encoded therein. For example the software may transform the states of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory.

As another example the computer readable storage media may be implemented using magnetic or optical technology. In such implementations the software or modules may transform the physical state of magnetic or optical media when the software is encoded therein. These transformations may include altering the magnetic characteristics of particular locations within given magnetic media. These transformations may also include altering the physical features or characteristics of particular locations within given optical media to change the optical characteristics of those locations. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for integrating a Web based CRM system and a PIM client application have been presented herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and storage mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

