---

title: Apparatus and methods for power management on mobile devices
abstract: Various embodiments for providing enhanced power savings in mobile computing devices are described. In one or more embodiments, a mobile computing device may monitor the battery power level remaining. The mobile computing device may select a wireless connection type for an application based on Quality of Service (QoS) requirements of the application and the amount of battery power remaining. The mobile computing device may switch the application from a higher QoS wireless connection type to a lower QoS wireless connection type when the battery power falls below a threshold. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08437808&OS=08437808&RS=08437808
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08437808
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100503
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communication functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. In order to provide communication functionality the device may need to search for and maintain multiple types of wireless signal connections. Different wireless connections require different amounts of battery power and may consume battery power at different rates. Further different types of wireless activity may consume battery power at different rates and or may require specific quality of service QoS criteria. Accordingly there may be a need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing enhanced power savings while maintaining communication services.

Various embodiments are directed to providing enhanced power savings on mobile devices in particular battery power savings. In one or more embodiments a mobile computing device may include several radios that may provide several types of wireless connections. The mobile computing device may monitor the remaining battery power which wireless applications are in use and what quality of service QoS is needed by the applications. The mobile computing device may then for example switch an application to a different radio or wireless communication type when the battery power level drops below a threshold or may disable a radio or wireless communication type altogether.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual or multi processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different wireless connection types e.g. different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some embodiments the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to support voice and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. For example the mobile computing device may comprise one or more radio frequency RF transceivers supporting voice communication e.g. CDMA GSM UMTS WCDMA WWAN data communication e.g. EVDO EVDV CDMA 1xRTT GSM GPRS EDGE HSDPA WLAN data communication e.g. WiFi WiMAX and or WPAN data communication e.g. Infrared protocols Bluetooth IR EMI in accordance with the described embodiments. The transceiver module may further comprise a GPS transceiver supporting position determination in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may transmit and or receive electrical signals and may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas tuned for operating at one or more frequency bands. As shown the antenna system may comprise one or more antennas connected to one or more RF transceivers supporting voice and or data communications in accordance with the described embodiments. The antenna system may further comprise a GPS antenna connected to the GPS transceiver supporting position determination in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device .

System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may use any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Palm WebOS Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement several applications . The applications may comprise for example a telephone application such as a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application and so forth. The applications may further comprise a voicemail application an instant messaging application an e mail application a browser application and other applications . Applications generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of other applications may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the applications may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments applications may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Applications may generally each have a preferred set of Quality of Service QoS criteria that when enforced provide optimal performance for the application. Some applications however may still be able to operate with lower QoS criteria although performance may be affected.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement a power management component . Power management component may be in communication with host processor and or radio processor . Power management component may monitor the battery power level of power supply . In accordance with the battery power level power management component may select a particular wireless connection type for an application to use. Wireless connection types may include for example an infrared connection a Bluetooth connection a wireless LAN connection a GSM connection a CDMA connection a WCDMA connection other 2G or 3G connections etc. Power management component may consider quality of service QoS requirements of the application when selecting a wireless connection type. In an embodiment power management component may detect when the battery power level falls below a threshold and then may assign the application to a different wireless connection type that consumes less power. In some cases power management component may terminate the application and or disable the wireless connection type until the battery is recharged.

Power management component may use power management settings which may be stored in memory . Power management settings may store information that associates a battery power level with actions taken to preserve or extend battery life. In some embodiments different battery power level thresholds may trigger different actions. For example each wireless connection type may have its own threshold below which the connection is disabled. Similarly each application may have its own threshold below which the application is switched to a lower QoS connection.

In block power management component may determine the QoS requirements of application . For example an application that requires primarily a one way connection such as telephone app e mail application or browser presenting static web pages may have lower QoS requirements regarding bandwidth and latency for example. An interactive application or one that otherwise requires a two way connection may have higher requirements for bandwidth latency and reliability for example. Such applications may include for example web browser application displaying a video an application using real time audio and or video networked games etc. Higher QoS requirements may correlate with faster battery consumption.

In block power management component may select a radio and wireless connection type for the application in accordance with the QoS requirements and the remaining battery power. In some embodiments power management component may poll radio processor to determine whether the application can be run using the application s preferred QoS. For example for a high QoS application such as an application using real time video if the battery power level is above a threshold power management component may allow the application to use WCDMA or another wireless connection that consumes battery power relatively quickly. If however the battery power level is below a threshold for example 30 power management component may either force the application to use a lower QoS wireless connection such as GSM or may prevent the application from operating altogether.

As shown in logic flow in block an application is already in operation via host processor . In block power management component may monitor the battery power level to determine if the level is greater than a threshold.

In block when the battery power level is below a threshold power management component may determine whether the application can operate at a lower QoS. Power management component may make this determination for example from power management settings or from the application itself. In an embodiment power management component may send a power level to an application processor such as host processor . If the battery power level is above the threshold the application may continue to operate with the radio and wireless connection type currently in use.

In block if the application can operate at a lower QoS power management component may switch the application to a radio or wireless connection type that uses less power and has lower QoS settings.

In block if the application cannot operate at a lower QoS than its current state power management component may terminate the application. In some cases the radio or wireless connection type may be temporarily disabled so that no other application may use it until the battery power level is recharged above the threshold. For example if the battery power level falls below 10 then all Bluetooth communication may be disabled.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in an application may generate and send a request to open and use a wireless connection type to power management component . In an embodiment application may send QoS requirements as part of request or separately as a message .

Power management component may determine what percentage of battery power remains by sending a request to power supply . Power supply may send a response with the percentage of remaining battery power. In an embodiment power supply may periodically send response automatically without being polled first.

Power management component may poll radio processor with a request to determine whether application can be run using the application s preferred QoS and requested wireless connection type. Radio processor may response with a response that allows or denies the connection.

Power management component may periodically poll radio processor independently of a specific application request with a poll to determine what wireless connection types are available given a current battery power level. Radio processor may respond with a response that may contain an indication of which wireless connection types are no longer available for use because the battery power level is too low. In an embodiment radio processor may receive power indication messages directly from power supply . Then radio processor may notify power management component with response when the battery power level is too low to allow applications having certain QoS requirements to operate or to continue operating.

When the battery power level drops below a threshold power management component may change the wireless connection type for application by sending a message to radio processor to change the radio used the QoS settings or otherwise alter the wireless connection to conserve power. Power management component may also inform application via a message that the wireless connection type has changed.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

Any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment may mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

The described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like may refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

