---

title: Enhanced search user interface
abstract: A method of communication is provided. The method comprises receiving a voice call and, based on receiving the voice call, accessing a plurality of stored messages transmitted by an originator of the voice call. The method further comprises presenting the identity of the originator of the voice call and at least part of one of the stored messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08380172&OS=08380172&RS=08380172
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08380172
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100901
---
Mobile telephones are electronic devices used for mobile voice or data communication over networks of specialized base stations known as cell towers or sites. In addition to the standard voice function of a mobile telephone current mobile phones and other similar portable electronic devices may support additional services including short message service SMS for text messaging electronic mail and packet switching for access to the Internet. Other services include gaming Bluetooth infrared camera with video recorder multimedia messaging services MMS for sending and receiving photographs and downloading of video MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 for audio storage radio and global positioning system services. Current mobile telephone and other portable electronic devices connect to cellular networks consisting of switching points and base stations owned by mobile network operators. Mobile phones personal digital assistants PDA and other similar devices may also provide for memorandum and document recording personal organizer and personal digital assistant functions calendar and or scheduling functions and instant messaging services and may serve as wireless modems for personal computers and as a console to online games.

In an embodiment a method of communication is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a voice call and based on receiving the voice call accessing a plurality of stored messages transmitted by an originator of the voice call. The method further comprises presenting the identity of the originator of the voice call and at least part of one of the stored messages.

In an embodiment a method of communication is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a voice call and based on a telephone number of an originator of the voice call identifying the originator of the voice call. The method further comprises based on the originator accessing a first stored message transmitted by the originator presenting at least a portion of the first stored message receiving a selection of a text string where the text string is part of the first stored message based on the text string filtering a plurality of messages wherein the plurality of messages are not transmitted by the originator of the voice call and presenting a list of the plurality of messages.

In an embodiment a portable electronic device is disclosed. The device comprises a processor a radio transceiver a memory a contact list stored in the memory and an application stored in the memory. When executed by the processor the application in response to the radio transceiver receiving a voice call origination message identifies an originator of the voice call based on searching the contact list using a phone number of the calling party provided in the voice call origination message searches for one or more stored messages transmitted by the originator of the voice call and presents a first stored message transmitted by the originator of the voice call.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

An automated system for providing contextual information to a receiver of a telephone call is described. The context may be predicted or guessed based on an identity of the originator of the telephone call. Information associated with the originator may be located by searching a data store and the information may be presented. For example in response to an incoming telephone call to a mobile phone an application executing on the mobile phone maps the telephone number of the originator of the call to an entry in a contact list stored on the mobile phone. The application searches for messages stored on the mobile phone or stored in a data store remote from the mobile phone for example messages that were sent by the individual identified in the contact list entry perhaps limiting the search based on time or based on another search constraint. The application may associate the originator of the telephone call with a group for example an address book group. For example an Enhanced Project Group may be defined in an address book to include Bob John and Sue as members. When the mobile phone receives an origination message from someone identified as a member of the group the application may search for messages stored on the mobile phone or stored in a remote data store that are associated with the group or one of the members of the group. The messages that are found may be displayed as a list of topics as a sequence of first sentences or as full messages on the mobile phone.

The application may search a calendar application on the mobile phone for events or appointments associated with the originator of the telephone call or associated with a member of a group that includes the originator. The application may present one or more calendar events or appointments that are identified by this search.

The application may provide an interface that promotes selecting one of the messages from a displayed list of topics for presentation. The interface of the application may further promote designating a text string contained in a title a first line or a portion of a message. The application may then search for messages stored on the mobile phone or stored in a data store remote from the mobile phone that contain one or more words in the text string and present a list of the messages that meet this criterion. It is understood that the search using a text string as a search criterion need not be constrained by the telephone number and or the identity of the originator of the call. The interface of the application may promote selecting one of these messages for presentation. Presentation of the messages for example an email from a boss to a subordinate may help the receiver of the phone call to rapidly establish context for the discussion with the calling party for example rapidly coming up to speed on a task request sent by the boss to the subordinate two days ago.

The messages may be email messages short message service SMS messages also referred to as text messages in some contexts multimedia message service MMS messages or other message types. The application may execute on any device that is enabled for voice communications for example a laptop computer enabled for voice communications by a voice over internet protocol VoIP application. In an embodiment a thin client may execute on the mobile phone and the searches may be performed by an application executing on a server computer coupled to the mobile phone via communication links.

Turning now to a communication system is described. The system comprises a portable electronic device a base transceiver station BTS a network and a telephone . The portable electronic device may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player or other communication enabled portable electronic device. The base transceiver station provides a communication link to the device and couples the device to the network . In an embodiment the base transceiver station provides a wireless communication link to the portable electronic device according to one or more of a code division multiple access CDMA wireless protocol a global system for mobile communications GSM wireless protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol or another wireless protocol. While a single base transceiver station is illustrated in it is understood that the communication system may comprise any number of base transceiver stations and any number of portable electronic devices .

The network may be a public communication network a private communication network or a combination thereof. The network may promote voice communications and or data communications. The telephone may be a desk phone a mobile phone or a phone application that executes on a computer.

The portable electronic device may comprise a radio transceiver a first user interface and a first memory . Alternatively the portable electronic device may comprise two or more radio transceivers . The first memory may store a first context application a first contact list and a first data store comprising a plurality of stored messages. The first data store may comprise messages received via the wireless link with the base transceiver station for example short message service messages multimedia message service messages email messages instant messages IMs and other electronic messages. Different types of messages may be stored in different portions of the first data store . For example email messages may be stored in a portion of the first data store allocated to an email application not shown that executes on the portable electronic device and short message service messages text messages may be stored in another portion of the first data store allocated to a short message service application not shown that executes on the portable electronic device . The first context application may access the messages directly or may access the messages through an application programming interface API provided by the associated messaging applications. For example the first context application may access stored emails by invoking methods provided by an application programming interface of the email application.

Alternatively different types of messages may be stored in the first data store . In an embodiment the first data store may be allocated for dedicated use by the first context application . For example copies of email messages may be created in the first data store separate from email messages that are stored in a portion of the memory that is allocated for use by the email application and that is separate from the first data store . Likewise copies of short message service messages may be created in the first data store separate from short message service messages that are stored in another portion of the memory that is allocated for use by the short messaging service application and that is separate from the first data store .

The first context application is executed by a processor not shown of the device . When a voice call is originated by the telephone directed to the portable electronic device the radio transceiver receives signaling associated with the origination of the voice call. In an embodiment the radio transceiver provides or a processor coupled to the radio transceiver provides information about the signaling to the first context application for example a telephone number of the voice call originator for example the telephone number associated with the telephone . The portable electronic device may connect the voice call immediately. Alternatively in another embodiment the portable electronic device may connect the voice call after a delay for example after presenting one or more messages for viewing by a user of the portable electronic device . The first user interface may provide a control for selecting the voice call to be connected after having adequately established context.

In response to receiving the information about the signaling the first context application may search the first contact list for an entry associated with the telephone number of the voice call originator for example an address book entry. An entry in the first contact list may comprise at least one of a work telephone number a home telephone number a mobile phone telephone number an email address a name and other information. The first context application may search the first data store based on the entry to find messages sent to the device by an electronic device associated with the entry. For example the first context application may search email messages received from an email address associated with the entry. As another example the first context application may search text messages received from a telephone number associated with the entry. Additionally in an embodiment the first context application may also search a remote data store such as a data store coupled to an email server for example when the portable electronic device has the capability of engaging in concurrent voice wireless communication and data wireless communication. In an embodiment the portable electronic device may comprise a plurality of radio transceivers for example a first radio transceiver promoting voice wireless communication and a second radio transceiver promoting data wireless communication.

As a fuller example the first application may find an entry in the first contact list for a John Doe that is associated with the telephone number of the voice call originator. The John Doe entry in the first contact list may indicate an email address john.doe domain.com a mobile phone number and other information. The first context application may search the first data store for text messages received from the mobile phone number listed in the John Doe entry in the first contact list . The first context application may search the first data store for email messages received from john.doe domain.com email address.

In an embodiment the first context application presents the messages or the titles of the messages that have been found when searching the first data store and or a remote data store. The first context application may also display the name of the originator of the voice call for example John Doe. In some cases there may be no messages found and no message is displayed. In some cases only a single message may be found and this single message may be presented on a display of the first user interface . The single message may help a user of the portable electronic device anticipate what the subject of the voice call may be about and may help the user rapidly construct a mental context of the call. Perhaps the single message is an email message sent by John Doe to ask that budget numbers associated with a new project be drawn together so a cost cutting meeting can be conducted. Perhaps the single message is a text message requesting that grocery items be picked up by a spouse on her way home from work.

In another case a plurality of messages may match one or more of the items of information contained in the entry in the first data store . In an embodiment the first context application may display a title of each of the messages. In an embodiment the first context application may display the first line of each of the messages. The first context application may search the data store and or remote data store only for messages that are less than two days old four days old two weeks old or some other duration limitation. The first context application may provide only specified number of messages for example only the three most recent messages or only the six most recent messages.

The first user interface may promote selecting one of the messages for full display. The first user interface may promote scrolling through lengthy messages. The first user interface may provide a control for designating a text string that can be used as a search criterion to identify other messages stored in the data store that may be useful for establishing a context of the voice call. For example the text string New Product Budget may be designated and the first data store searched for messages containing the text string New Product Budget or sub strings of New Product Budget. Additional messages perhaps not associated with the originator of the voice call may be identified and presented as either in full display or as a list of titles or first lines of messages. The source of the messages may be displayed. The first user interface may promote selecting a message for full display.

In an embodiment the first context application may present the messages message titles or message first lines before the voice call is connected. The portable electronic device may return a distinctive tone or a voice message to the originator of the call that is played by the telephone and indicates that the called party is establishing context preparatory to call connection. The distinctive tone may be a ringback tone. Alternatively the portable electronic device may send a message via the network that invokes an auto redial function of the telephone such that when the call context has been established by the first context application for example when a control of the first user interface is activated the telephone is triggered to auto redial to the portable electronic device . In an embodiment the voice call may be connected while the first context application is presenting messages message titles or message first lines. The called party may say something to the effect that he is consulting their message context and will be with the caller momentarily.

The present disclosure teaches that the above functionality can be provided using electronic platforms other than the portable electronic device . For example a desktop computer may comprise a second memory and a second user interface . The second memory may comprise a voice over internet protocol VoIP application a second context application a second contact list and a second data store . The voice over internet protocol application may execute on a processor not shown of the desktop computer . The telephone may originate a voice over internet protocol voice call to the voice over internet protocol application and the voice over internet protocol application may provide information about the signaling to the second context application . The function of second context application and its interactions with the second contact list the second data store and the second user interface may be substantially similar to the corresponding function and interactions of the first context application . Computer systems are described in more detail hereinafter.

The present disclosure contemplates that some of the processing of the context applications may be performed by a third context application executing on a server . The server may be coupled to a data store that may store the messages and the contact information. The portable electronic device may receive signaling to connect a telephone call from the telephone and send the information to the server via the network . The third context application may search and find messages as described above and send content for display by the portable electronic device . For example the third context application may format a hyper text markup language HTML file for transmitting to and display by the portable electronic device . When a control input is received from the first user interface the portable electronic device sends a message containing the control input selection to the server . The third context application responds to the control input selection and commands the server to send a new hyper text markup language file to be transmitted to the portable electronic device . In this case the first context application may be a thin client that delegates the main processing such as searching for messages that match a criterion to the third context application .

Turning now to a method is described. At block a voice call is received. For example the portable electronic device receives a voice call origination message. What is received as is known to one skilled in the art may be an origination message or a signaling message indicating that a call connection is requested. Different mechanisms and or methods may be used to indicate a call connection request based on the voice communication technology used. At block a plurality of stored messages that were transmitted by an originator of the voice call are accessed. The processing of block may comprise identifying a telephone number associated with the originator of the call connection request. The processing of block may further comprise searching a contact list for example an electronic address book for an entry associated with the telephone number. A list of stored messages for example the first data store may be searched using as a search criterion any of the telephone number an email address a name or other information contained by the entry in the contact list associated with the telephone number.

In an embodiment the processing of block may further comprise accessing a calendar application and searching for an entry associated with the originator of the voice call for example an appointment to meet with the originator of the voice call. The processing of block may determine that the originator of the voice call is associated with a group for example the Enhancement Project Group comprising a plurality of members Bob John and Sue. The processing of block may search for an entry in the calendar associated with the group and or any member of the group. For example a call from Bob may trigger searching the calendar for events and or entries associated with Bob John Sue or the Enhancement Project Group.

At block the identity of the originator of the voice call and at least a portion or part of one stored message is presented for example on a display of the portable electronic device . A calendar event and or appointment associated with the originator of the voice call and or associated with a group or a member of a group that the originator is a member of may also be presented. The voice call may be connected concurrently with the actions of block and block . Alternatively the voice call may be connected after the completion of the actions of block .

Turning now to a method is described. At block a voice call is received for example one of a voice call origination message is received or voice call origination signaling is received. At block based on a telephone number of an originator of the voice call the originator of the voice call is identified. For example the telephone number of the originator is used to search in an address book or in a list of contacts to find an entry comprising information associated with the originator. Alternatively information provided in the voice call origination message for example caller identification information may be used to identify the originator of the voice call. At block based on the originator or the identity of the originator of the voice call a first stored message transmitted by the originator of the voice call is accessed. The first stored message may be any of an email message a short message service message text message and a multimedia message service message. Accessing the first stored message may comprise searching a list of stored messages using one or more criteria. For example the search may specify any message sent from a specific telephone number a specific email address or another identification. The criteria may further specify an age criteria where messages more than two days old more than four days old more than two weeks old are not searched. Alternatively the first context application may filter messages based on aging. Additionally the first context application may select the three most recent messages the six most recent messages or some other number of most recent messages and disregard other messages. At block the first stored message is presented.

At block a selection of a text string is received for example from the first user interface where the text string is part of the first stored message. At block a plurality of messages are filtered based on the text string. In an embodiment the plurality of messages may not have been transmitted by the originator of the voice call. Alternatively in an embodiment at least one of the plurality of messages may have been transmitted by the originator of the voice call. In an embodiment a plurality of messages may be filtered based on a group defined by an address book to comprise a plurality of individuals. For example an address book may define an Enhancement Project Group to comprise Bob John and Sue. Messages may be filtered based on the Enhancement Project Group. When a call originated by Bob is received the messages may be filtered based on the Enhancement Project Group and any message by Bob John or Sue may be selected by the filtering.

Filtering the messages may comprise searching the data store using one or more search criteria to identify messages that are potentially of interest for establishing a context or supplementing the context of the voice call for example to provide informational background that may promote the user of the portable electronic device to participate more fully in the call and or to discuss business matters or other matters better informed. These messages so identified may be referred to as filtered messages messages that have passed through the filter implicitly defined by the selection criteria.

At block a list of the plurality of messages is presented. The titles associated with the messages may be displayed in a list. The first line of the messages may be displayed in a list. At block a selection of one of the plurality of messages is received for example from the first user interface . At block the selected message is displayed.

The mobile device includes a display and a touch sensitive surface and or keys for input by a user. The mobile device may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The mobile device may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The mobile device may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the mobile device to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally the mobile device may be programmed and or configured over the air for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer mobile device .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the mobile device to send and receive information from a radio access network RAN or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer mobile device . In an embodiment the antenna and front end unit may include multiple antennas to support beam forming and or multiple input multiple output MIMO operations. As is known to those skilled in the art MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit may include antenna tuning and or impedance matching components RF power amplifiers and or low noise amplifiers.

The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit and or the DSP or other central processing unit. In some embodiments the RF transceiver portions of the antenna and front end and the analog baseband processing unit may be combined in one or more processing units and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The analog baseband processing unit may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone and the headset port and outputs to the earpiece speaker and the headset port . To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the mobile device to be used as a mobile phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit may provide digital to analog conversion in one signal direction and analog to digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit may be provided by digital processing components for example by the DSP or by other central processing units.

The DSP may perform modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment for example in a code division multiple access CDMA technology application for a transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving and spreading and for a receiver function the DSP may perform despreading deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In another embodiment for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access OFDMA technology application for the transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving inverse fast Fourier transforming and cyclic prefix appending and for a receiver function the DSP may perform cyclic prefix removal fast Fourier transforming deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive email or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the mobile device to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the mobile device to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position. In another embodiment a camera operating according to a technology other than charge coupled device cameras may be employed. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory storage and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in an optical conduit for example an optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein implementing the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data data structures files executable instructions and other information. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

