---

title: System and method for energy consumption management
abstract: An energy management system and method providing a holistic premise energy optimization and energy efficiency reclamation system comprised of an interconnected system of software, analytics and automated process that optimizes the energy generation and storage technologies, energy consumption, energy demand and energy utilization of energy consuming assets within a premise.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146548&OS=09146548&RS=09146548
owner: INTELLIGENT ENERGY SOLUTIONS, LLC
number: 09146548
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100409
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 167 955 entitled METHOD PROCESS AND TECHNOLOGY TO REMOTELY SERVICE RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS BUILDING ENVIRONMENTS ELIMINATING ELECTRICITY GAS AND WATER WASTE IMPROVING PREMISE ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENSURING COMFORT AND ASSET RELIABILITY REDUCING PEAK ENERGY DEMAND AND CARBON EMISSIONS MANAGING PREMISE ELECTRICITY GENERATION AND STORAGE TECHNOLOGIES DYNAMICALLY LEARNING CONSUMER BEHAVIOR TO FURTHER OPTIMIZE PREMISE ASSETS AND THEN MEASURING IMPROVEMENTS filed Apr. 9 2009 as well as U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 232 989 entitled HOLISTIC PREMISE ENERGY OPTIMIZATION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY RECLAMATION WEB ENABLED SOFTWARE AND SYSTEM filed Aug. 11 2009 the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference into the present application.

The present invention relates generally to a system and method for energy management and more particularly to a holistic energy optimization and efficiency system and method providing a process that optimizes the energy generation and storage technologies energy consumption energy demand and energy utilization of energy consuming assets within a building.

Based on data from the Energy Information Administration EIA residential and commercial end users consume over 40 of all electricity produced in the United States. At the same time the Department of Energy DOE estimates that current energy inefficiencies in buildings result in electric system losses of up to 40 .

While residential users have experienced efficiency gains over the last decade from technology improvements in appliances and HVAC Heating Ventilating and Air Conditioning systems these gains have been largely offset by a 40 increase in the number of homes a 49 increase in the use of air conditioning a 72 increase in the size of homes as well as a steady increase in the number of home electronic devices being used. The average United States home now has 26 consumer electrical products and there are an estimated 124 000 000 United States residences. Fifteen million new commercial buildings are forecasted to be constructed over the next decade.

Moreover global demand for fuel sources such as coal and natural gas the addition of more generating capacity and required investments in new transmission and distribution infrastructure will only push energy prices even higher than they are in today s market. Renewable and conventional energy supply construction costs are going up across the board energy fuel costs are rising operating costs are increasing and the significant costs of cleaning the climate will soon be predicted.

In conjunction with these ever growing levels of energy consumption and continuing increases in energy costs legislative and regulatory policies addressing energy efficiency renewable energy supply and carbon emissions are causing utilities to search for new technologies to deliver affordable low carbon reliable energy supply to their customers. Political and economic pressures to reduce carbon emissions and protect our climate from global warming continue to mount.

For example the nation s economic reinvestment and recovery stimulus plan included over 40 billion in funding towards developing technologies for making the nation more energy efficient. This figure represents a ten fold increase over any previous year in annual federal investments for energy efficiency. Over 6 billion is targeted for increasing home energy efficiency and expanding current state energy efficiency programs. Special decoupling provisions have been included in the plan ensuring utilities that they will recover revenues that may be lost should end users consume less electricity as a result of the utility s end user energy efficiency programs.

In addition the U.S. Energy Policy Act of 2005 encouraged adopting energy pricing time of use TOU rates to shape end user consumption behavior reduce the need for expensive peaking generation and effectively increase grid utilization. Smart meters and advanced metering infrastructures AMI are needed to implement these strategies. The government estimates that 50 million advanced meters representing an estimated 1 billion in utility investment will be in the pipeline by 2010.

The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 supported creating the smart grid through modernization of the nation s electricity transmission and distribution system. It is estimated that 1.5 trillion of investment in transmission and distribution infrastructure will be made by utilities between 2010 and 2030. In the second half of 2008 over 275 million of new private venture funding was invested in companies developing and manufacturing communication networks and other technologies for smart grid solutions.

Generally these smart grid initiatives aim at improving efficiencies in the utilities production and delivery infrastructure. The smart grid and demand response methods and technologies are designed to reduce consumers peak energy demands. For example the attempt to reduce total energy consumption used by a premise at a specific point in time by denying or limiting the consumer s user but these technologies do not reduce total energy consumption. Moreover these initiatives do not affect the highest contributor to energy waste in the overall system i.e. the energy inefficiencies found in buildings and residences.

Furthermore conventional systems such as energy management systems building automation systems smart meters home automation systems in premise displays programmable communicating thermostats and DDC Pneumatic control systems take a singular approach to control and management focusing only on controlling or managing the performance of the single electrical component asset or possibly the group of assets to which they are attached. These conventional systems rely on the premise occupant or premise facility manager to understand and input the correct parameters into the control systems in order to operate correctly. Further these systems require that as conditions or premise circumstances change these parameters be updated requiring premise occupants or premise facility managers to be extensively aware and knowledgeable of energy centric data facts such as current weather upcoming weather current energy pricing conditions upcoming energy pricing conditions other asset utilization and interactions between the current asset and the other premise assets.

Accordingly the continued existence of energy waste and inefficiencies throughout the electric supply system and within residences and commercial buildings offer some of the greatest opportunities to the electric power industry to conserve energy reduce carbon emissions and increase profits. The impact of these losses cascades up the energy supply chain forcing not only increasingly higher amounts of electricity to be produced but also requiring the deliberate over engineering of transmission and distribution grid infrastructures to meet the resultant higher peaks in energy demand. These inefficiencies result in huge unnecessary costs in the production distribution and consumption of electricity as well as the unwanted creation and release of higher amounts of harmful carbon emissions.

Based on the current energy consumption landscape it is clear that energy efficiency is the centerpiece strategy for meeting our energy and climate needs. Yet no single program or new technology will be sufficient to solve these challenges. Meeting the demand for affordable low carbon energy electricity is a challenge with unprecedented levels of complexity. The nation s achievement of these goals can only be achieved through significant investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy supply sources.

What is needed is a holistic approach that is capable of predicting and or dynamically adjusting operations and performance to changes in consumer behavior market or weather conditions grid infrastructure constraints and stakeholder programs. Creating a clean tech zero emissions alternative source of energy supply source through applying technology to eliminate minimize energy waste and improve energy efficiency offers an immediate and pragmatic low cost method for delivering significant sustainable near term relief. Delivering this relief through a highly interoperable and smart platform placed in the premise offers a means for integrating and accelerating the adoption of critical technologies needed to ensure security of energy supply reduce carbon emissions eliminate waste and sustain efficiency improvements.

The energy management system and method disclosed herein provides a holistic premise energy optimization and energy efficiency reclamation system comprised of an interconnected system of software analytics and automated process that optimizes the energy generation and storage technologies energy consumption energy demand and energy utilization of energy consuming assets within a premise.

Furthermore the energy management system and method utilizes analytics and software to create a holistic intelligent software system and suite of applications that act independently and automatically to optimize the life cycle and energy efficiency performance of premise based energy generation and storage technologies in concert with existing and future energy consuming devices and equipment assembled and installed within the premise. Effectively a highly interactive smart process is provided that supports and continuously adapts to the behavior and needs of the premise s occupant so as to meet and sustain required conditions of comfort and reliability while minimizing costs to the consumer as well as costs to the utility company through eliminating energy waste maximizing the energy efficiency potential of the existing installed base of appliances and equipment avoiding corresponding carbon emissions and reducing premise peak energy demand requirements

The following detailed description outlines possible embodiments of the described energy management system and method for exemplary purposes. As will be described below the system and method disclosed herein provides a fully hosted web based solution working automatically in a residence or business building behind the scenes to eliminate energy waste and optimize energy use within consumer defined rules. The system and method disclosed herein includes capabilities to learn and adapt to consumer behavior and external influences such as markets weather grid infrastructure constraints regulatory mandates and the like in real time or otherwise in order to sustain and continuously improve energy savings.

The energy management system provides an integrated array of web enabled smart control devices data acquisition sensors diagnostic and performance algorithms and adaptive software installed in premise and acting in concert with both centralized and distributed energy management modules provided by energy management control center to deliver a user defined choice of comfort reliability and costs while reducing energy demand usage and carbon emissions at premise .

In operation transactional data such as energy consumption data acquired from sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers is transmitted to energy management control center . As will be described in detail below such transactional data can include the performance and use of HVAC systems lighting water heaters refrigeration major appliances and the like. Effectively energy management control center is provided with sufficient data to learn the habits procedures and routines of the end user s and the energy consuming device s operated at premise . Furthermore energy management control center is configured to actively and continuously collect data external to premise such as for example energy markets conditions weather conditions grid infrastructure constraints regulatory mandates and the like. Using some or all of the acquired data energy management control center is configured to combine normalize and analyze the acquired data in conjunction with data previously acquired and stored in energy management control center and to generate instructions providing an optimized result for energy consumption at premise . Based on the optimized result energy management control center generates control instructions that are transmitted back to the sensor device mobile client and or controller to dynamically adapt the premise s energy assets automatically to thereby provide a more comfortable reliable environment while substantially eliminating energy waste and significantly reducing energy usage. Effectively energy management control center is configured to take action automatically to eliminate energy waste and maximize the premise s performance. Preferably this process is performed on a periodic base e.g. 1 to 10 times per minute to achieve an optimal set of results desired by the end user and or administrator stakeholder .

Moreover energy management control center offers an energy management enterprise portal to provide a web based user interface to the end user and or administrator stakeholder . Energy management control center includes all hardware and software modules not shown that are necessary to provide a website portal i.e. energy management enterprise portal for user interaction with energy management control center . Specifically energy management enterprise portal is created for all interactions and configurations within energy management system . As such energy management enterprise portal provides the core visualization service serving as the mechanism to provide all user interface data. All business logic analysis results and reporting are accessible from this portal by both the end user s at premise and administrator s stakeholder s . Energy management control center personnel utilize this portal for all daily and or administrative functions. Specifically energy management enterprise portal enables the administrator stakeholder to view data execute campaigns expand the network i.e. add users and or add devices etc. as well as all other functions of the system as dictated by their secure login to the system such as backup restore disaster recovery and server migration. Moreover each end user at his or her respective premise can view data and interact with energy management control center e.g. set energy consumption rules preferences but preferably cannot perform the administrative functions performed by administrator stakeholder .

More particularly the end user can set energy consumption rules preferences for the desired performance of energy consuming devices at premise . Furthermore the user interface provided to the end user is preferably an infinite series of tiles allowing specific interaction with campaign platform which will be described in detail below. All campaigns create feedback loops from the campaign platform to the end user interface and finally back to the campaign platform . As a result this functionality enables real time views of items fully involved in one or more campaign. In addition this portal is the main interface for end users to log in and set and review their premise s configuration usage patterns and account status.

In the exemplary embodiment energy management enterprise portal creates a security checkpoint in order to validate authenticate and authorize user transactions on energy management system . This sign on portal is capable of performing all required site level actions all required batch or group of sites operations as well as serve as the main tunnel to real time readings of the energy management system as described above.

Moreover in a further refinement of the embodiment energy management enterprise portal utilizes an interactive platform that is designed in accordance with proven social networking techniques to notify consumers of results achieved and advise consumers of further improvement opportunities that can be exercised. This platform helps keep consumers engaged in an effortless management of his her premise as well as providing a user interface enabling a user to continuously provide critical information to utilities. In this refinement of the exemplary embodiment the web interface provided to the end user creates a platform enabling the end user to engage in friendly competition over energy efficiency and carbon footprint reductions. Energy management control center is configured to capture and report on benefits financial and otherwise from these energy reductions. As a result the end user who wishes to take an active role in their energy management consumption are provided the ability to do so.

In yet a further refinement energy management enterprise portal is configured to create a personal energy efficiency home page or building page for each end user on the Internet. This page is provided to marshal energy saving recommendations or observations about energy usage for the end user. Moreover end users can connect with one another to offer for tips and knowledge transfer and can easily connect with energy management control center personnel to assist them. Sections of energy management enterprise portal are also configured to be integrated into other social networking sites e.g. Facebook enabling users to proudly display their efficiency gains and carbon footprint reductions.

As shown energy management control center comprises a communication interface configured to receive data from the sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers located at each premise . In the exemplary embodiment communication interface can be configured to communicate with premise using standard TCP IP Internet protocols or the like. In one refinement communication interface can be implemented as an XMPP Gateway configured to receive the real time transactional data. It is noted that communication interface comprises all requisite hardware and software modules not shown to enable communication between energy management control center and remote entities such as premise . These communication hardware components can include conventional I O interfaces such as modems network cards and the like. Such hardware components and software applications are known to those skilled in the art and have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the description of the system herein.

It should be appreciated that any conventional web service can be employed to enable data communication between energy management control center administrator stakeholder and or premise . As used herein the term web service is provided to describe a typical application programming interface API or web API that can be accessed over a network such as the Internet and executed on a remote system hosting the requested services. For example in one refinement the term web service refers to clients and servers that communicate over the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP protocol used on the web. However for purposes of this disclosure any application enabling the exchange of information diagnostics and control can be used for this purpose and is not limited to any particular protocol. In one refinement the implemented web services are preferably designed to run on energy efficient blade type servers running the Linux operating system such that the web services can be rapidly scaled to meet the needs of a rising installation base by merely adding blades to the blade cabinets.

As further illustrated in energy management control center comprises data store i.e. a real time data store or operational data store or the like which is provided to store the current value of one or more of the sensors devices mobile clients or controllers implemented by energy management system to provide access to this data by energy management control center . Data store is further provided to ensure current system readings before generating an optimized result to verify conditions have not changed to a state that would significantly alter the desired optimized result.

Energy management control center also comprises cloud data store e.g. Cassandra cloud data store that is configured as the primary data store of energy management control center . Preferably cloud data store utilizes key value pairs to quickly store large volumes of information with extremely fast read and write time. Effectively cloud data store is provided to be able to quickly read the incoming data and store the data in a structured storage model.

Energy management control center provides validation rules engine which is configured to validate each data element through one or more of the following tests as would be understood by one skilled in the art 1 static limits 2 single value thresholds 3 percentage of value change 4 percentage of difference to related data objects 5 range of standard deviation 6 slope rate differential 7 numeric value threshold 8 object maturity completeness 9 and the like. As will be discussed below once the received transactional data has passed this validation step it is used for decision making processes to generate the optimized result s .

Energy management control center also comprises unifying data warehouse which is configured as the transactional data store of energy management system storing all historical records of incoming data current system components and executed optimized results. More particularly unifying data warehouse is configured to store customer preferences historical energy usage and equipment performance data manufacturer equipment specifications market rules utility rates weather data and the like. Unifying data warehouse is configured to support the analysis optimization and data mining for continuous energy efficiency improvements provided by energy management system . Effectively unifying data warehouse serves as a central repository of energy management control center s electronically stored data. Further it should be understood that unifying data warehouse can be managed by any applicable software. For example in the exemplary embodiment unifying data warehouse is authored with generic SQL and can run on Microsoft SQL Server MySQL or Oracle .

Energy management control center also comprises optimization engine which is configured to perform the required data calculations for energy management system . As will be discussed in detail below optimization engine is configured to retrieve and analyze the data stored in unifying data warehouse and to create new data points as it calculates per the requirements of each individual implementation. Preferably these calculations are infinitely nested providing infinite ability to create new calculated data points.

Energy management control center also comprises campaign platform as mentioned above. Once all data has been received and stored in energy management control center via communication interface data store cloud data store validation rules engine unifying data warehouse and optimization engine energy management system can be considered to have both the existing state of all sensors devices mobile clients or controllers at each premise as well as the user rules preferences of the administrators stakeholders and end user s at premise . Accordingly campaign platform is configured to enable the respective users to executed pre compiled routines that represent all the bundled business rules of standard and enhanced energy management. These campaign types include both traditional methods of demand reduction such as demand response as well as more advanced and emerging methods of energy management such as energy optimization. Since campaigns are defined as collections of business rules for operational rules engine new campaign types as well as new campaigns can be defined on a real time bases the respective users via portal . These campaigns preferably serve as executed energy management improvements for energy measurement and verification meaning that each campaign becomes a measured unit of energy demand or energy consumption reduction with the total energy reduction at any single premise being equal to the sum of energy reductions from all involved campaigns.

As mentioned above energy management control center includes operational rules engine which is configured to execute further validation by linking to validation rules engine . For example operational rules engine provides IF Then Else logic for all connected sensors devices mobile clients or controllers of each premise . As a result operational rules engine reads nodes from unifying data warehouse and executes business rules defined by respective users across separate sensors devices mobile clients or controllers.

Finally energy management control center comprises service and delivery platform which is configured to push the overall optimized result to any other connected node i.e. the sensor device mobile client or controller of the respective premise . It should be understood that service and delivery platform functions in conjunction with communication interface which is further configured to transmit the optimized results to premise using standard TCP IP Internet protocols or the like.

During installation premise automation network is preferably implemented over premise s existing electric power line wiring such that energy management computer can communicate with the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers over the existing electrical infrastructure. Conventional power line communication or power line carrier PLC technology is a known reliable network technology infrastructure application deployed both in commercial and residential applications for carrying data on a conductor that is also used for electric power transmission. It is noted that while only seven types of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers are illustrated in it will be readily apparent from the detailed description herein that the specific number of components is not limited in a given premise.

Utilizing PLC technology energy management computer is configured to employ the existing electrical infrastructure in a premise to receive the transactional data measured by the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers . To implement PLC technology in the exemplary embodiment the network protocols used within premise automation network are preferably the standardized protocols by the International Organization for Standardization ISO under the following articles 

In an alternative embodiment energy management computer is configured to communicate wirelessly with the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers using a wireless communication protocol such as a ZigBee wireless communication protocol available from Echelon Cisco or the like. It should therefore be appreciated that energy management computer can implement any existing protocol stack that enables energy management computer to communicate with any secondary network protocol implemented by premise automation network .

In the preferred embodiment energy management computer is a single board computer including all of the required hardware and software components needed to perform the functions for energy management system . However it is noted that the functionality of energy management computer can be implemented in software. Under a software implementation energy management software can be installed on a conventional host system for example any type of laptop desktop microprocessor or the like that can be configured to perform these functions. It should be appreciated that any such host system should include an active internet connection as well as a connection to premise automation network i.e. PLC network or ZigBee wireless network or the like . Advantageously this configuration would enable existing home technology such as home computers set top boxes and wireless routers networking equipment and the like to serve as energy management computer within premise automation network .

Energy management computer comprises premise automation network interface internet connection processor memory and an LED indication light . Premise automation network interface is configured to communicate with the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers using PLC communication protocols wireless communication protocols or the like as discussed above. If energy management computer is configured to communicate using PLC communication protocols it is noted that in this embodiment energy management computer includes a power transformer not shown for power line communication and energy management computer is configured to be plugged directly into an existing electrical outlet of the premise . It is further noted that if energy management computer is configured to communicate wirelessly with the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers in premise automation network energy management computer is equipped with the necessary expansion slots not shown such that wireless cards and the like can be utilized for wireless communication in conjunction with premise automation network interface . For example energy management computer can be configured to communicate through ZigBee wireless protocols in which a low speed ad hoc network of nodes i.e. energy management computer and the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers is constructed upon installation and automatically updated when the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers are added and removed from premise automation network .

Furthermore internet connection is configured to communicate with external networks preferably using standard TCP IP Internet protocols or the like. For example in one embodiment internet connection can be a standard Ethernet connection. It should be appreciated however that internet connection can be any wireless connection interface DSL interface cable modem cellular connection CDMA interface GSM interface or the like.

Utilizing internet connection energy management computer is configured to connect to and enable communication with communication interface of energy management control center . Effectively energy management system provides the free exchange of transactional data via the Internet communication standard between energy management control center and premise . Accordingly as will be discussed in detail below energy management computer can transmit acquired data to energy management control center and in turn receive instructions in the form of optimized results generated and transmitted by energy management control center via standard TCP IP Internet protocols.

Processor is configured to execute all of the application functions of energy management computer including to process the received instructions via a localized rules engine and translate them to the native PLC wireless communication protocol to implement the desired routines in a runtime production environment. It should be understood that once connected to energy management control center energy management computer effectively becomes an active node within energy management system . It is further envisioned that at least one energy management computer is installed at a respective residence or business building and that many separate premises each installed with an energy management computer create many respective active nodes within energy management system . Furthermore processor is configured to operate energy management computer using any applicable operating software such as Linux or the like. In the exemplary embodiment the programming and configuration of energy management computer can be done using the Java programming language and installed remotely from energy management control center . Energy management computer is configured to accept a series of modules each providing a different purpose or process which it monitors in premise . It should be appreciated that technology refreshment can be performed dynamically and remotely through software upgrades allowing system life to be readily and economically extended.

As will also be explained in detail below in operation energy management computer is configured to acquire data from the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers via premise automation network . Preferably each system component communicates in a push manner to premise automation network interface of energy management computer on any change of value and or on a periodic basis. Memory is configured to temporarily store this data until it is transmitted to energy management control center . In the exemplary embodiment memory is non volatile flash memory and the database is built on the MySQL open source database platform. However any type of memory capable of performing such storage functions can be used by energy management computer . In addition memory is configured to store data files backing up the current configurations for all components of premise automation network . Moreover LED indication light is provided to alert the home or business end user to its status.

Referring back to and as discussed above energy management computer is configured to communicate with the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers via standard PLC technology using the existing electrical wiring infrastructure of the premise where it is installed or via wireless communication protocols. As shown energy management computer is communicatively coupled to one or more energy consumption controllers which can include universal sensory and load control device USLCD controllers and specialized sensor load control device SSLCD controllers .

USLCD controllers is configured to be plugged into an existing wall outlet and can communicate with energy management computer using the existing electrical wiring infrastructure. For example USLCD controller can be implemented with a single double triple or quadruple plug or power strip enabled to function in premise automation network . Alternatively USLCD controller is provided with conventional wireless communication components to communicate with energy management computer accordingly. As a result USLCD controllers are configured to enable energy management computer to control any electrical devices attached to the wall outlet by sending control instruction signals to the USLCD controller .

In an alternative embodiment USLCD controller can be configured with the software implementation of energy management computer . As a result USLCD controller can be configured to communicate directly with communication interface of energy management control center .

In general there are three types of operations that can be performed by USLCD controllers and SSLCD controller in response to the control instruction signals received from energy management computer . These instructions are 1 Remove the Load 2 Redirect the Load and 3 Reduce Increase the Load. Examples of these control operations are as follow 

USLCD controllers are further configured to transmit the captured data about a room or area to energy management computer utilizing premise automation network drivers . As discussed above once received by energy management computer the data is combined with data from the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers within premise ultimately enabling energy management system to determine a wide view of activities occurring in the residence or business building and the particular rooms therein. In an additional refinement each USLCD controller provides an LED light to alert the home or business end user to its status and a timed override switch enabling the end user to bypass the existing program for a preset or indefinite period of time. Moreover USLCD controller comprises the requisite hardware not shown required to perform the functions of 1 Remove the Load 2 Redirect the Load and 3 Reduce Increase the Load. The requisite hardware can include electrical electromechanical switches variable resistors and the like as would be readily apparent to one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment USLCD controller can further be provided as a USLCD light switch controller or similar such controller. Effectively a plurality of USLCD controllers can be positioned throughout premise at wall outlets light switches and other applicable locations. Employing the internal sensors of sensor array the plurality of USLCD controllers are preferably designed to take the place of the sensing end of the preexisting thermostat at the premise and as noted above are configured to forward temperature readings and or light switch data to energy management computer . As such the plurality of USLCD controllers provide a combination and correlation of the temperature readings and light switch data that enables energy management computer to determine the rate of use for each HVAC unit installed in the premise . Moreover this configuration allows for dynamic and programmatic utilization of HVAC assets for not only normal daily operation but also in critical energy events like demand response programs.

In the exemplary embodiment premise automation network employs 220 volt as well as a 110 volt USLCD outlets controllers such that energy consuming equipment in premise can be added to energy management computer s control quickly and easily. This allows for dynamic and programmatic utilization of other home and business building assets for not only normal daily operation but also for critical energy events like demand response programs. For example a simple demand response application of this functionality might be to schedule and run dishwashers washers dryers and the like in the middle of the night when energy is plentiful instead of during peak day periods. Moreover as the capabilities of such appliances further develop if the end user decides the clothes dryer needs to be run during the day then energy management computer can preferably switch off the heating element of the clothes dryer but continue to tumble clothes when energy prices are at a premium and then switch the heating element back on when demand eases.

In a further refinement of this embodiment USLCD controller is configured to utilize an interoperable self installation protocol in which the device is automatically configured when added to premise automation network . In this embodiment when an end user adds a device to premise automation network by plugging it into an outlet equipped with a USLCD controller premise automation network installs the necessary configuration in energy management computer needed for operation. It should be appreciated that each USLCD controller can employ an operation system including the requisite hardware e.g. processor and memory not shown as would be appreciated by those skilled in the art to control the functionality of USLCD controller . For example as noted above USLCD controller can be configured with the software implementation of energy management computer . In this embodiment operating system is provided with a processor and memory to execute the software implementation accordingly.

Referring back to energy management computer is also configured to be communicatively coupled to specialized sensor load control device controllers SSLCD controllers within premise automation network . Generally each SSLCD controller employs the same core components as USLCD controller as illustrated in and is manufactured with similar internal components with the exception of the external body and wiring interfaces. In the exemplary embodiment each SSLCD controller can be designed with a single application in mind and make special provisions for specific application functionality. As such each respective SSLCD controller is configured to interface with an end user s particular energy consuming device that is wired directly into the premise s electrical system instead of being plugged into electrical outlets. For example SSLCD controller is configured to interface with devices that allow for three wire direct connects such as those used in modern electric ovens and HVAC systems. For instance SSLCD controller is designed to be affixed between the existing home or business building thermostat and the HVAC unit s terminal block. It is designed with clip on terminal block connectors for installation. In general premise HVAC systems utilize a standard wiring design that is regulated by the International Standards Organization so terminal block wiring from home to home is nearly identical. SSLCD controller is preferably designed for HVAC applications and works by mimicking a thermostat of the premise HVAC unit. Utilizing this method SSLCD controller is capable of easily integrating to almost any premise HVAC system.

In the exemplary embodiment SSLCD controller is configured to communicate with energy management computer using either PLC or wireless communication protocols and generally requires control instruction signals from energy management computer to operate and control the associated appliance energy consuming device. As such the core technology for SSLCD controllers lies within the Java based HVAC module in energy management computer . In an alternative embodiment SSLCD controller is configured with the software implementation of energy management computer . As a result SSLCD controller can be configured to communicate directly with communication interface of energy management control center .

Moreover similar to USLCD controllers SSLCD controller is also configured to utilize an interoperable self installation protocol in which a device is automatically configured when added to premise automation network . In this embodiment when an end user wires a device directly into the premise s electrical system premise automation network installs the necessary configuration in energy management computer needed for operation.

As noted above SSLCD controllers are designed to be located between the thermostat and the wires leading to the HVAC unit s terminal block. While SSLCD controllers can therefore be used to control the operation of the HVAC unit SSLCD controllers are further configured upon failure to receive control instruction signals and or signals from the HVAC unit to disable itself and effectively allow the HVAC unit to resume its standard mode of operation. It should be further appreciated that under this design arrangement should an electrical or network failure occur the preexisting thermostat can retake control.

Finally employing SSLCD controllers as HVAC controllers provides a component that can accurately measure the exact energy consumption expenses being saved by the end consumer. This is because the energy management computer is further configured to record and measure what the preexisting thermostat in premise would have instructed the HVAC units to do versus what energy management computer is instructing the HVAC units to do for delivery of the desired temperature and HVAC control.

In conjunction with USLCD controller and SSLCD controller premise automation network comprises additional components configured to communicate with energy management computer using either PLC wireless communication protocols or the like. Specifically premise automation network further comprises commercial home meter e.g. A.M.I. A.M.R. electromechanical or the like energy generation device e.g. solar wind or the like energy storage device e.g. battery or the like generic commercial home green or sustainability device and commercial home energy inverter device . Each of these devices is provided in accordance with their conventional hardware and functionality. Moreover each of these devices can include those components of USLCD controller and or SSLCD controller as described above with respect to . In a further refinement any one of devices can be configured with a software implementation of energy management computer . As a result such components can operate as a host and can be configured to communicate directly with communication interface of energy management control center . Finally as shown in in home display may be provided at premise so as to enable the end user to have an alternate route for the input of consumption rules preferences and the like through a touch screen interface in addition to the energy management enterprise portal .

At Step the end user s preferences and requirements selections such as work schedules climate environment essential equipment that must be run all the time e.g. medical equipment cost preferences and the like are recorded. In the exemplary embodiment this information can be entered directly by a user via the user interface in response to a standard set of questions and responses. These data and user preferences are then provided to energy management control center to be stored in unifying data warehouse . At this point premise automation network of the given premise is ready for operation.

At Step the electronic appliances and other energy consuming devices are initially configured in accordance with the user s initially defined preferences. To perform the initial configuration the energy management control center can generate control instruction signals that are transmitted to energy management computer of the end user s premise . These control instruction signals are in turn processed and transmitted to the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers . As discussed above USLCD controllers SSLCD controllers and the like are configured to control the operation of the associated appliances energy consuming devices implementing instructions including 1 Remove the Load 2 Redirect the Load and 3 Reduce Increase the Load.

In one example based on the end user s work schedule control instruction signals are generated for the HVAC system such that energy management computer Reduces the Load when the end user leaves for work and Increases the Load providing the end user s specified temperature to be reached in premise when the end user arrives home from work. More particularly an end user may define three different profiles for his or her premise 1 Home 2 Work and 3 Night Time. The Home profile contains all the settings for when the end user is in the home. The Work profile contains all the settings for when the end user is at work. Finally the Night Time profile contains all the settings for when the end user is asleep. Utilizing the user interface provided by energy management enterprise portal the end user can set these preferences which can in turn be automatically scheduled by energy management control center . This allows the entire home or business facility to be automatically aware of changes to these schedules and adapt to them without any further effort taken by the end user.

Once the premise automation network has been established and all appliances consumer electronics and any other applicable equipment have been configured for initial operation the end user s premise is in a position to begin normal operation in accordance with energy management system . Specifically at Step the premise automation network performs a series of steps capturing data available to the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers . More particularly sensors within sensor array of the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers and in particular USLCD controllers and SSLCD controllers collect data such as energy consumption temperature light active ultrasonic occupancy data and the like. As noted above this transactional data is then transmitted to the energy management computer via PLC or wireless technology where it is then stored in memory before being transmitted to the energy management control center .

Next after the transactional data is transmitted to the energy management control center the energy management control center utilizes analytics and software to perform data analysis operations Step on the data further taking into account external data unrelated to the transactional data as well as user defined rules and preferences.

As will be explained in detail below with respect to based on the configuration setting selected by the end user during the installation process energy management computer can modify the configurations of the appliances energy consuming devices in order to achieve the maximum energy efficiency. In addition energy management system performs calculations modeling and algorithmic analyses resulting in inferred and predictive end user information. More particularly energy management system includes adaptive software and techniques capable of learning and dynamically optimizing energy use within the end user s premise to match to the changing patterns of the end user s behavior. For example appliances other energy consuming devices and consumer energy behavior are correlated together on a whole house or system level employing data mining techniques within unifying data warehouse . As such energy management control center is configured to determine what actions are to be taken to optimize energy use on the basis of observing the dependencies over time between consumer behavior and the operating condition of controllers sensors equipment and appliances. The historical importance of these relationships to one another is applied to optimize performance.

Furthermore energy management control center is configured to observe and use in its optimization techniques the correlated relationship between external and internal factors such as the performance of internal HVAC systems in response to approaching changes in weather conditions and temperature. Energy management control center is then configured to employ these observations to predicatively optimize HVAC operations. For example if a cool weather front is approaching the geographical location of the given premise energy management control center applies this data to the current operational settings of the associated HVAC unit and generates a control instruction signal such as a Decrease the Load instruction to reduce the load being applied to the air conditioning unit while further taking into account the end user s temperature preferences.

Energy management control center is further configured to analyze the electric signature of equipment and appliances such as HVAC systems water heaters refrigerators or the like enabling the identification of conditions denoting incipient performance degradation or failure. This analysis provides the means for proactive measures to be taken in resolving the underlying circumstances to increase reliability and reduce asset life cycle costs. As such energy management control center in conjunction with energy management computer continuously assesses the performance of premise HVAC systems cooling heating air flow etc. lighting water heaters refrigeration major appliances and other equipment and is configured to automatically tune these major energy consuming devices optimizing their energy efficiency performance to save energy.

In a further refinement of this step if the transactional data is indicative of significant changes from historical norms energy management control center includes analytics and software to recognize these changes so as to automatically flag these behaviors for investigation and adjustment of schedules or other stated performance conditions. For example energy management control center is configured to create pre assembled event response initiatives that in response to certain data stimuli work to automatically control energy management system to act in an integrated fashion to deliver specific results or outcomes defined by rules stored in unifying data warehouse of energy management control center .

At Step the energy management control center generates a sequence of controlling instruction signals in response to the data analysis operations and transmits these instructions to the energy management computer of the premise automation network . At Step the energy management computer receives and translates these signals such that the energy management computer can drive the plurality of sensors devices mobile clients and or controllers and preferably USLCD controllers and SSLCD controllers resulting in an optimization of energy consumption peak energy demand reduction of carbon emissions reliability comfort and costs while meeting consumer preferences. To implement these goals the energy management computer translates the controlling instructions signals to control commands i.e. Remove the Load Redirect the Load and Reduce Increase the Load to be sent to the applicable USLCD controllers and SSLCD controllers which in turn performs the designated functions Step .

Finally it should be understood that Steps through can be repeated on a periodic basis e.g. every 60 seconds to periodically tune the appliances energy consuming devices to maximize energy consumption efficiency. Through this repeating cycle the analytics and software implemented at the energy management control center can continuously integrate and synchronize the methods procedures premise based assets equipment consumer rules behavior portals communication networks intelligent processor sensors controllers and services required to deliver the results in energy consumption carbon emissions and peak demand reductions improved consumer comfort convenience and reliability reduced utility and consumer costs and the extended life cycle of premise based assets.

Initially at Step real time transactional data is received from energy management computer of premise via connection interface . Next at Step the transactional data is then stored by data store which only stores the current value of the transactional data. Similarly in Step cloud data store stores the full history of values including the current values of the transactional data. At Step the transactional data is extracted from the respective data stores and validated by validation rules engine . As discussed above validation rules can include more or more of the following 1 static limits 2 single value thresholds 3 percentage of value change 4 percentage of difference to related data objects 5 range of standard deviation 6 slope rate differential 7 numeric value threshold 8 object maturity completeness and the like. If one item of transactional data or a series of transactional data fails the validation requirements then the data is declared invalid triggering an appropriate response Step . In the exemplary embodiment the triggered event is responded to on a custom basis in which typical responses include for example excluding the failed data point notifying an operator making a system notation for later or alerting an operator. Once all the data has passed the required validation rules energy management control center reinserts the transactional data into the cloud data store and synchronizes it to the unifying data warehouse Step .

At Step the validated transactional data is used as raw data to create new calculated data. For example Step includes simple calculations performed by optimization engine such as addition and subtraction or complex math with the use of parenthesis. Preferably all calculations are performed in the P.D.M.A.S. parenthesis division multiplication addition subtraction order of operations. It should be appreciated however that any appropriate order of calculations can be used. At this point the data analysis splits into two parallel paths which can be performed serially or concurrently. Specifically at Step campaign platform scans the unifying data warehouse to determine involvement in active campaigns. The new valid data and calculated data are used to update the current standings of campaigns. Furthermore at Step operational rules engine identifies active business rules i.e. If Then Else logic chains and executes them in proper operational order. Finally at Step the optimization results are generated and appropriate controlling instructions are transmitted to all subscribed members connected to energy management system via the service and delivery platform see Steps of .

In one exemplary implementation of energy management system energy management control center can be used to support utility demand response programs for load controlling of major appliances such as end user refrigerators and water heaters. For example these appliances can be turned off for brief intervals of time upon receiving an instruction signal while not jeopardizing the safety of the refrigerator contents.

For example refrigerator optimization can be achieved using USLCD controllers such as USLCD 120 or 220 volt plugs. The hardware sensors of sensor array in these USLCD controllers are configured to measure the consuming kW of the outlet for purposes of determining the active cycle of the refrigerator. The measured active cycle data is then transmitted to energy management computer and ultimately to the unifying data warehouse of the energy management control center .

The recommended settings for the internal refrigerator controls are determined by correlating incoming data streams with model information collected about the appliance during the installation process of premise automation network . These recommended settings generated by energy management control center are in turn communicated to energy management computer of the end user. Due to the significant variety of refrigerator makes and models the end user is asked to make these refrigerator temperature setting adjustments manually. The proper settings take into account the usage of the kitchen as a room the outside climate conditions HVAC settings etc.

Moreover the data collected by the USLCD controllers allows for an analysis of user operation cycles of the particular appliances to which they are connected i.e. a refrigerator water heater dish washer clothes washer etc. based on the current draw data from the USLCD controller . Energy management control center is therefore able to see the scheduled and actual operation of the end user appliances. From this observation and other behavioral data energy management control center is configured to make recommendations to energy management computer in the form of controlling instruction signals on scheduling of appliance operations for more effective conservation and energy optimization.

Because energy management system is designed to utilize unifying data warehouse which stores the type and distance of relationship of one sensor device mobile client or controller to another sensor device mobile client or controller energy management system has a larger scope of control for connected via sensor device mobile client or controller assets. As a result the decision logic can take into account the state value of other connected sensors devices mobile clients or controllers. This allows more complex machine intelligence to be utilized in the control of assets as well as enabling home or commercial premise assets to be controlled in manner that is more reflective of a system of assets working in concert than separate assets. The effect of these assets working in concert is lower energy bills more efficient operation and lower energy consumption and demand. Further since energy management system is an ongoing system the efficiency and cost gains made by energy management system are able to be sustained over time unlike status quo one time analysis that slowly lose effectiveness over time. Furthermore since energy management system has the ability to store information overtime it can also be used in this fashion as an asset management platform for either home or commercial use. Data from energy management system can be used to correlate and infer when actual maintenance is required creating a on demand maintenance program instead of the status quo scheduled maintenance program.

In addition because energy management system is designed to utilize the unifying data warehouse which stores the type and distance of relationship of one sensor device mobile client or controller to another sensor device mobile client or controller energy management system can calculate and determine what the influence of multiple energy savings projects or actions. This is so because energy management system can identify the correlations between different assets via unifying data warehouse . The calculations for this analysis utilizes the standard mathematical function of correlation coefficient on a broad scale.

While the foregoing has been described in conjunction with an exemplary embodiment it is understood that the term exemplary is merely meant as an example. Accordingly the application is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the energy management system and method disclosed herein.

Additionally in the preceding detailed description numerous specific details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it should be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the energy management system and method may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the energy management system and method disclosed herein.

