---

title: Method and device for launching application triggered by initiation of telephone call
abstract: A telephone or telephone system launches an application upon the dialing of a trigger telephone number. The application may be an electronic message generator that sends an electronic message to one or more recipients upon a telephone number being dialed. One or more text messages may be sent by a telephone or telephone system when a user dials an emergency number with the telephone or telephone system. Real time information such as geographic location information may be automatically generated by the application and included in the electronic messages that are sent after being triggered by a telephone call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08467500&OS=08467500&RS=08467500
owner: 
number: 08467500
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100520
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to provisional application Ser. No. 61 179 721 filed May 20 2009 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to telephones or telephone systems and methods of using telephones or telephone systems.

Telephone calls are the primary mechanism for people to communicate with each other by voice when located remotely from each other. The process of initiating a telephone call involves inputting a telephone number associated with the receiving telephone line into the initiating telephone. Commonly this is referred to as dialing the telephone number though any number of mechanisms may actually be used to enter the destination telephone number. More recently telephones have also been provided with the ability to generate and send electronic messages such as text messages and electronic mail. Such devices have also been provided with computer processing units that permit them to launch and execute other applications.

The act of sending an electronic message from a telephone consists of entering a sequence of destination telephone numbers or destination email addresses composing the electronic message and sending it. The electronic message may include text image voice recording video recording or other contents. Telephone calls are well suited for two way voice communication. Electronic messages are well suited for one way communication and the broadcasting of information to several recipients at once.

Conveying information via a telephone call takes a relatively long time and is prone to interruptions. Before users can start conveying their message they have to wait for the destination party to receive the call. After the call is received various factors can cause the call to be interrupted before the entire message is conveyed. When an interruption occurs and the call is disconnected users have to repeat the process of making a telephone call and waiting for the destination party to receive the call before they can complete conveying their message. In comparison sending an electronic message may require a relatively short time because there is no need to wait for the destination party to receive the call and because once it is sent it is less prone to interruption. It also provides a relatively permanent record of the information that is being conveyed.

In the event of an emergency many telephone users will immediately make a call to request emergency services. In the United States this is done by making a telephone call to 911. However the inherent limitations involved with making a telephone call may limit the effectiveness of this action. Users must wait for the 911 operator to accept the call before they can convey their emergency situation and request help. Various factors may cause the call to be interrupted before the user can convey all of the information needed by the 911 operator to provide necessary help. If the telephone user is in a situation where they are unable to speak or where it will be dangerous to make noise it can be difficult for the 911 operator to comprehend the user and to send the emergency services to the correct location.

In addition to emergency situations there are other instances where it is desirable for third parties to be aware that the telephone user has placed a telephone call to a particular destination telephone number. For example parents may wish to know when their children have made a telephone call to particular numbers as well as the physical location of the child when they made the telephone call. Similar concerns may exist for businesses monitoring the activity of employees using telephones.

These difficulties and others are at least partially overcome or improved upon by the present invention. The examples mentioned in this section are not exhaustive of the problems overcome by the present invention and there may be additional benefits and uses for the invention that will be apparent in light of the following description of the invention.

It is an object of the present invention to overcome the difficulties noted above by launching an application that automatically composes and sends electronic messages from a telephone or a telephone system when a telephone call is made to a predefined telephone number.

It is a further object of the present invention to enable a telephone or a telephone system to monitor outgoing telephone call numbers and launch an application if an outgoing call is made to a telephone number that matches a predefined trigger telephone number.

According to one embodiment the present invention is a method of automatically composing and sending electronic messages from a telephone or a telephone system. The method includes providing a telephone or a telephone system that has an electronic storage medium a computer processor and a transmitter for transmitting voice information and electronic messages. A trigger number a text message and one or more text destination addresses are input into a database on the electronic storage medium. A telephone call is initiated by inputting a telephone number into a telephone or a telephone system. The input telephone number is compared with the trigger number using the computer processor. If the telephone number matches the trigger number the text message corresponding to the trigger number is sent to the predefined text destination addresses. The location of the telephone or telephone system at the time the telephone call is initiated may be inserted into the text message as GPS coordinates or as an address. The trigger number may be an emergency services telephone number. A plurality of text destination addresses may be associated with a single trigger number. A plurality of trigger numbers may be input to be compared with the input telephone number.

According to another embodiment the present invention is directed to a telephone or telephone system that includes a transmitter that transmits electronic messages. An input mechanism permits input of a telephone number corresponding to a remote telephone line such that the transmitter will attempt to connect a voice data telephone call to the remote telephone when the telephone number is entered into the input mechanism. An electronic storage medium includes a trigger numbers database having a first trigger number associated with a first predefined text message and a first text message destination address. A programmable processor can monitor outgoing telephone calls and compare the telephone number with the trigger numbers database. The programmable processor is adapted to cause the transmitter to transmit the first predefined text message to the first text message destination address when the telephone number called matches the first trigger number. The telephone or telephone system may include a GPS unit. The programmable processor may be adapted to insert a location identifier into the first predefined text message based on information received from the GPS unit. The trigger numbers database may include a plurality of trigger numbers. The first predefined text message may be associated with a plurality of first text message destination addresses. The telephone system may be provided entirely within a single telephone.

According to another embodiment the present invention is a telephone or a telephone system that has an electronic storage medium including a database comprising a predefined electronic message associated with a trigger telephone number and a destination address. The telephone or telephone system also includes a transmitter for transmitting electronic messages. A processor monitors outgoing telephone calls and sends the predefined electronic message to the destination address if an outgoing telephone call is initiated to the trigger number. The trigger number may correspond to an emergency services telephone number. The telephone or telephone system may further include a GPS receiver such that the predefined electronic message includes an indicator of a location of the telephone or telephone system. The predefined electronic message may be associated with a second destination address such that if an outgoing telephone call is initiated that corresponds to the trigger number the processor signals the transmitter to send the predefined electronic message to the second destination address. The predefined electronic message may be sent without interrupting the outgoing telephone call. The database may further include a second predefined electronic message associated with a second trigger telephone number and a second destination address wherein the processor is adapted to send the second predefined electronic message to the second destination address when an outgoing telephone call is initiated to the second trigger number.

The present invention relates generally to a telephone or a telephone system and methods for using such a telephone or telephone system. The term telephone is used herein to refer to a variety of communication devices capable of connecting to other similar devices to permit voice communication between two users. The term telephone system is used herein to refer to a telephone used in combination with a personal computer or other electronic device. Each telephone or telephone system is associated with a unique telephone number used to identify the telephone or telephone system for incoming and outgoing telephone calls. This unique identifier is usually referred to as a telephone number. The present invention is particularly well suited for use with telephones or telephone systems that include the ability to send and receive electronic messages such as text messages and electronic mail. In its most general form the present invention is a telephone or a telephone system and method of using the telephone or telephone system that monitors telephone numbers dialed by the telephone or telephone system and if a dialed telephone number matches a predefined trigger telephone number initiates another action by the telephone or telephone system. That additional action may be launching an application that automatically sends one or more electronic messages launching other applications on the telephone or telephone system to perform an action such as recording and broadcasting the telephone conversation or taking other automated actions. The following detailed discussion and attached drawings illustrate more specific embodiments of the invention.

The telephone or telephone system is not limited to traditional forms. shows a telephone system wherein a telephone handset is connected to a personal computer . The personal computer can monitor outgoing calls made using Voice Over IP programs such as Skype Windows Messenger and the like. shows a traditional landline telephone not a smart phone or a wireless phone in connection with specialized hardware that includes a CPU that monitors outgoing calls made using the landline telephone.

The telephone or telephone system may include display equipment . The display equipment may include one or more display screens that provide visual of information to a user. The display equipment may be used to show telephone numbers as they are being dialed and to show an identification of incoming telephone calls. Additionally the display equipment may be utilized to show incoming electronic messages. More generally the display may be a display screen that provides displays as controlled by the CPU such as control menus and the like. The display equipment may be a touch screen to permit a user to interact with the control menus.

There are numerous commercially available telephones or telephone systems that are suitable for use with the present invention. Suitable telephones or telephone systems should include a programmable processor for running applications that match the operating system of the telephone. Currently commercially available suitable telephones or telephone systems include telephones or telephone systems sold under the brand name Apple iPhone telephones running the Android Operating System such as Motorola Droid HTC Nexus One or HTC Droid Incredible and numerous models sold under the brand name BlackBerry. The different brands may include the same or different operating systems OS and application programming interfaces API . Therefore the various different OS and API platforms may require similar but different programming language and different specific details in the programming logic. However those of ordinary skill in the art will understand how to program the specific models according to their own OS and API needs based upon this disclosure.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the electronic message is generated automatically in response to the telephone call being initiated. The telephone or telephone system is provided with a database of trigger telephone numbers. Each time a telephone call is initiated the telephone or telephone system compares the dialed telephone number with the database of predefined trigger numbers. If the dialed telephone number matches a trigger number then the telephone or telephone system will send a predefined text message to an electronic message receiver associated with the trigger number. For example the remote telephone may be an emergency service provider. In the United States it would be common for the emergency service provider to be associated with the telephone number 911. Therefore the telephone number 911 might be defined as a trigger number that triggers the initiation of an electronic message to be sent to an electronic message receiver . Therefore after a user dials 911 while the user is communicating by voice with an emergency services provider the telephone or telephone system will also be sending an electronic message to the user s emergency contacts letting them know that the user has dialed 911. In the case of telephones or telephone systems that include GPS equipment the user s GPS location information may also be included in the text message so that recipients of the electronic message know the location of the user at the time the emergency telephone call was initiated. Additional information can be added to the electronic message depending upon the nature of the emergency. For example when a trigger number is dialed say 911 a dialog box can be displayed on the display of the telephone asking the user what kind of help he she needs police medical or fire based on what the user selects this additional information can be embedded in the message. For example the dialog box might suggest a user can select one or more selection from the following options police medical fire to include in the text message automatically creating the following example messages 

It is also possible for the application to implement a delay when a trigger number is dialed. In this delay feature a dialog can be popped up with a countdown timer telling the user that an emergency electronic message is going to be composed and sent in after a predetermined delay time for example in 5 seconds. This dialog box may include a cancel button to allow users to cancel the sending of electronic messages if they chose.

According to another feature of the present invention a trigger number could be set to permit a parent or guardian to monitor when a child user of the telephone or telephone system dials specific telephone numbers. For example the parent s home telephone number could be set as a trigger number such that a text message is sent to the parent s mobile telephone any time the child tries to use the telephone or telephone system to dial home. That way if no one is at home the parent will receive a text message and be aware that the child is trying to call the home telephone or telephone system . As with the text sent in emergency situations it may be advantageous to include GPS information in the parental text message so that the parent knows the geographic location of the child when the call is made.

The trigger number may be set using wild card characters such as an asterisk to stand for any string of numbers or a question mark to stand for any single number. The use of wild cards would permit several telephone numbers to act as a trigger associated with a single trigger record. For example use of wild cards would make it easily possible to select all of the numbers within any single area code to generate a text message. As a further alternative the wild cards could be used to set every number dialed as a trigger number for a particular message so that every time a telephone call is made a corresponding electronic message is composed and sent.

Additional examples of the present invention that launch a third party application based upon a telephone call being made to a trigger number include one wherein a third party application takes a picture or records a video based on upon a trigger number being dialed one wherein a connection is established with a home security system to trigger an audible or silent alarm one wherein a connection is established with a user s home automation system to turn on the television close the curtains start the fireplace turn up or down the furnace and similar tasks. The present invention may be advantageously used to launch virtually any suitable third party application.

Those of skill in the art will be aware of additional standard features that could be added to the application such as password protection. Those of skill in the art will be aware of numerous layouts and interfaces that can advantageously utilize the invention.

The presently preferred embodiments of the invention have been described with a degree of particularity. The foregoing description is of preferred examples for implementing the invention only and the scope of the invention should not be limited by this description. The scope of the invention is defined by the scope of the following claims.

