---

title: Compounds advantageous in the treatment of central nervous system diseases and disorders
abstract: A series of novel compounds showing anticonvulsant, chemical countermeasure(s), and analgesic activities is described. Such pharmaceutically active compounds may also show utility in the treatment of other central nervous system (“CNS”) diseases and disorders, such as anxiety, depression, insomnia, migraine headaches, schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, spasticity, Alzheimer's disease, and bipolar disorder. Furthermore, such compounds may additionally find utility as analgesics (e.g., for the treatment of chronic or neuropathic pain) and as neuroprotective agents useful in the treatment of stroke(s), chronic neurodegenerative diseases (such as Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease), and/or traumatic brain and/or spinal cord injuries. Moreover, these/such compounds may also be useful in the treatment of status epilepticus and/or as chemical countermeasures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09212155&OS=09212155&RS=09212155
owner: AURIMMED PHARMA, INC.
number: 09212155
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100913
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 243 110 filed 16 Sep. 2009 entitled NOVEL COMPOUNDS ADVANTAGEOUS IN THE TREATMENT OF CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES AND DISORDERS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 334 356 filed 13 May 2010 entitled NOVEL COMPOUNDS ADVANTAGEOUS IN THE TREATMENT OF CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES AND DISORDERS. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 922 068 filed 10 Sep. 2010 entitled NOVEL COMPOUNDS ADVANTAGEOUS IN THE TREATMENT OF CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES AND DISORDERS which claims the benefit of and priority to PCT Application Serial No. PCT US09 37558 filed 18 Mar. 2009 entitled NOVEL COMPOUNDS ADVANTAGEOUS IN THE TREATMENT OF CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES AND DISORDERS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 037 987 filed 19 Mar. 2008 NOVEL COMPOUNDS ADVANTAGEOUS IN THE TREATMENT OF CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES AND DISORDERS. The above listed applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to novel compounds showing activity in the central nervous systems CNS . More specifically the present invention relates to novel compounds with anticonvulsant activity that exhibit increased improved toxicological safety i.e. decreased toxicity increased improved metabolic stability longer half life and or a superior side effect profile while producing similar or increased biological activity i.e. efficacy when compared to currently available CNS therapeutic agents.

A number of pathological conditions e.g. epilepsy stroke bipolar affective disorder migraine headaches anxiety depression insomnia schizophrenia chronic or neuropathic pain spasticity spinal cord injury and chronic neurodegenerative disorders and diseases e.g. Parkinson s disease Huntington s disease and Alzheimer s disease are characterized by abnormalities in the normal function of the central nervous system CNS . These conditions and diseases typically respond to pharmacologic intervention with compounds or substances that modulate CNS activity. Compounds with this activity include the compounds of the present invention which are herein disclosed to treat abnormalities of the CNS such as epilepsy. While currently available therapeutants often have good CNS activity they frequently exhibit other undesirable properties such as chronic toxicity severe and or unpleasant side effects and inadequate pharmacokinetic properties such as a short pharmacologic half life. For example a short half life in a CNS therapeutant may require its frequent administration in order to sustain therapeutic concentrations of the drug without eliciting adverse effects and where frequent dosing schedules are required the cost of therapy may increase. In addition as the required dosing frequency increases patient compliance tends to decrease. It would therefore be desirable to provide additional compounds that modulate CNS activity and have improved properties such as e.g. an increased half life increased activity i.e. improved efficacy and or increased metabolic stability e.g. fewer toxic metabolites when compared to those of currently available therapies. Furthermore improved and simpler simplified synthetic and chemical manufacturing processes can be developed which can help to make the useful compounds of the invention more widely available to a larger portion of the patient population.

Related art may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 463 125 Sandoval et al. Phenyl alcohol amides having anticonvulsant activity WO9941229 Carvajal Sandoval et al. Halogenated phenyl alcohol amides ligands of GABAB receptor having an anticonvulsant activity WO03091201 Carvajal Sandoval et al. DL Hydroxy alkyl phenylamides having anticonvulsive activity WO2005085182 Meza Toledo DL Hydroxybenzamides having anticonvulsive activity and U.S. Patent Application 20060287397 Meza Toledo Dl Hydroxy alkyl phenylamides having anticonvulsive activity . An important distinction between the art cited above and that of the present invention is that the cited art contains and refers to compounds which are structurally related to gamma hydroxybutyric acid gamma hydroxybutyrate or GHB whereas the compounds of the present invention are structurally related to 3 methylbutyramide.

It is noteworthy that the derivatization N alkylation of the nitrogen atom of amide groups has produced compounds such as N N diethylisovaleramide A. Liebrecht German Patent 129 967 issued 1902 which has been marketed previously as a sedative Valyl see various editions of . However this compound has been shown instead to exhibit CNS stimulating anxiogenic and convulsant properties U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 268 . Indeed N methylated amide derivatives can show either CNS stimulating or depressing properties whereas N ethyl and larger derivatives generally possess CNS stimulating properties Volwiler E. H. and D. L. Tabern . 1936 58 1352 1354 Nelson et al. . 1941 30 180 182 .

Thus N N disubstituted amide compounds such as cropropamide crotethamide ethamivan nikethamide N N diethylisovaleramide U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 268 and the insect repellent DEET N N diethyl m toluamide have all been shown to exhibit CNS proconvulsant and respiratory stimulating properties in mammals including humans . Cropropamide crotethamide ethamivan and niketamide have been used as CNS and respiratory stimulants in humans e.g. to counteract the potentially life threatening CNS and respiratory depressing effects of barbiturate poisoning overdose various editions of and W. O. Foye s .

It is also noteworthy that the primary amide modafinil ProVigil has been shown to possess CNS stimulant and pro alertness pro vigilance properties see the current 14th edition of

A series of novel amides with anticonvulsant chemical countermeasure s and analgesic activities are herein disclosed. These amides modulate CNS activity by enhancing inhibitory or decreasing excitatory neurotransmission centrally without complete suppression of all activity. Pursuant to the present invention therefore a subject who receives such an agent is not overtly sedated anesthetized or paralyzed in the context of for example decreasing seizures no anesthesia decreasing muscle tone no paralysis eliciting a calmative effect no sedation or ameliorating an ambulatory syndrome such as spasticity no weakness or flaccidity .

Many of the amides disclosed herein have a phenyl group attached to the amide moiety via a short and variously branched substituted aliphatic linker. Other compounds of the invention are amide derivatives of optically active amino acids e.g. D or L such as alanine valine leucine isoleucine or phenylalanine or the optically inactive amino acids glycine or taurine.

In Formula I Ar can be an optionally substituted phenyl optionally substituted naphthyl optionally substituted tetrahydronaphthyl optionally substituted indane or an optionally substituted heterocyclic aryl wherein up to 5 substituents may be present. Each substituent on Ar can be independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl cycloalkyl halogen alkoxy thioalkyl sulfoxyalkyl sulfonylalkyl alkylene dioxy haloalkyl haloalkoxy OH CHOH CONH CN acetoxy N alkyl benzyl benzyloxy dimethylbenzyl NO CHO CHCH OH acetyl OCHCOOH and combinations thereof. Also the Ar can include an optionally substituted aromatic ring system attached to one or two atoms of the Ar such aromatic rings being selected from the group consisting of phenyl phenoxy heterocyclic aryl and combinations thereof. The Ar and or substituent thereon can have up to 5 substituents and each substituent can be independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl cycloalkyl halogen alkoxy thioalkyl sulfoxyalkyl sulfonylalkyl alkylene dioxy haloalkyl haloalkoxy OH CHOH CONH CN acetoxy N alkyl NO CHO CHCH OH acetyl and OCHCOOH. Optionally the Ar and or aromatic rings can include bifunctional substituents that form a ring with the Ar and or aromatic rings wherein the bifunctional substituents are an optionally substituted alkyl cylcoalkyl methylenedioxy ethylenedioxy or other alkylenedioxy and combinations thereof.

In Formula I Rand Rcan each be independently at least one of H long or short chain substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl CWphenyl or combinations thereof. Each W is independently selected from the group consisting of H methyl and ethyl except that both Ws cannot be ethyl . Up to 5 substituents may be present in the phenyl group and each substituent is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen alkoxy thioalkyl sulfoxyalkyl sulfonylalkyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy CONH CN acetoxy N alkyl NO and acetyl.

In another embodiment when Ris H Rcan be CH SOH or CHZCOOH wherein Z is one of the group consisting of H CH CH CH CHCH CHCH CH and CH CH CHCH. Such compounds are amide derivatives of optically inactive amino acid taurine and glycine or optically active amino acids alanine valine phenylalanine leucine isoleucine . Optionally Rand Rtogether are cycloalkyl.

In Formula I Ris either hydroxy substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl or together with Rcycloalkyl or together with Ar forms an additional aliphatic ring with the proviso that when Ris OH then Ris not an ethyl.

In Formula I Ris one of a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl or together with Rcycloalkyl.

In Formula I X is one of nothing substituted or unsubstituted alkylene methylene ketone CHOH oxygen NR sulfur sulfone or sulfoxide.

In Formula II Rand Rare each independently at least one of H long or short chain substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl CWphenyl or combinations thereof. W is independently selected from the group consisting of H methyl and ethyl except that both Ws cannot be ethyl. Up to 5 substituents may be present in the phenyl group or cylcoalkyl group and each substituent is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen alkoxy thioalkyl sulfoxyalkyl sulfonylalkyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy CONH CN acetoxy N alkyl NO and acetyl. Optionally when Ris H Rcan be CH SOH or CHZCOOH wherein Z is one of the group consisting of H CH CH CH CHCH CHCH CH and CH CH CHCH. In another option or Rand Rtogether are cycloalkyl.

Rcan be H or Rand Rare each independently either optionally substituted phenyl or optionally substituted heterocyclic aryl wherein up to 5 substituents may be present and each substituent is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen alkoxy thioalkyl sulfoxyalkyl sulfonylalkyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy CHOH CONH CN acetoxy N alkyl NO acetyl and OCHCOOH.

Y is either nothing substituted or unsubstituted methylene or other substituted or unsubstituted alkylene.

In yet another embodiment the present invention includes a CNS active compound having one of Formulas 1 9 shown below .

In one embodiment of Formulas 1 9 Rand Rare each independently at least one of H long or short chain substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl CWphenyl or combinations thereof. W is independently selected from the group consisting of H methyl and ethyl except that both Ws cannot be ethyl. Up to 5 substituents may be present in the phenyl group or cylcoalkyl group and each substituent is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen alkoxy thioalkyl sulfoxyalkyl sulfonylalkyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy CONH CN acetoxy N alkyl NO and acetyl. Optionally when Ris H Rcan be CH SOH or CHZCOOH wherein Z is one of the group consisting of H CH CH CH CHCH CHCH CH and CH CH CHCH. In another option Rand Rtogether are cycloalkyl.

In another embodiment of Formulas 1 9 when Ris H Rcan be CH SOH or CHZCOOH wherein Z is one of the group consisting of H CH CH CH CHCH CHCH CH and CH CH CHCH. Optionally Rand Rtogether are cycloalkyl Ris one of either H hydroxy substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl or together with the phenyl ring in Formula 5 form an additional aliphatic ring Ris one of an H OH substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy substituted or unsubstituted alkyl substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl or together with the adjacent phenyl ring form an additional aliphatic ring with the proviso that Rcannot be OH in Formula 3 Ris one of H Cl F CF CN C1 C5 alkyl C1 C5 alkoxy OCF CONRR halogen substituted alkyl halogen substituted alkoxy X is one of nothing substituted or unsubstituted alkylene methylene ketone CHOH oxygen NR sulfur sulfone or sulfoxide and n can be from 0 5 more preferably from 1 3 and most preferably from 1 to 2.

In yet another embodiment any of Formulas 1 9 can be characterized as follows Ris one of H CH CH CH SOH or CHZCOOH wherein Z is one of the group consisting of H CH CH CH CHCH CHCH CH and CH CH CHCH combination thereof or derivative thereof R R and Rare independently one of H CH substituted or unsubstituted alkyl OH with the proviso that Rcannot be OH in Formula 3 OCH substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy combination thereof or derivative thereof Ris one of H Cl F CF CN C1 C5 substituted or unsubstituted alkyl C1 C5 substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy OCFCONRR combination thereof and derivative thereof n 1 5 preferably 1 3 and X O NR nothing C O S SO combination thereof and or derivative thereof.

In yet another embodiment any of Formulas 1 9 can be characterized as follows Ris one of H CH CH CH SOH or CHZCOOH wherein Z is one of the group consisting of H CH CH CH CHCH CHCH CH and CH CH CHCH Rand Rare independently one of H or CH Ris one of H CH OH with the proviso that Rcannot be OH in Formula 3 or OCH Ris one of H Cl F CF CN C1 C5 alkyl C1 C5 alkoxy OCFCONRR n 1 5 Q is one of O NR C O S SO or SO and X O NR nothing C O S or SO.

In a preferred embodiment a CNS active compound has the Formula 1 above where Rand Rare H Ris either H or CH n 1 and Ris one of CH OCH C CFor OCFin either the ortho 2 meta 3 or para 4 position on the phenyl ring in other preferred embodiments the compounds just described have either an R or S configuration when Ris H.

In another preferred embodiment a CNS active compound has the Formula 1 above where Rand Rare H Ris either H or CH n 1 and Ris one of C CFor OCFin either the ortho 2 meta 3 or para 4 position on the phenyl ring in other preferred embodiments the compounds just described have either an R or S configuration when Ris H.

In yet another preferred embodiment a CNS active compound has the Formula 1 above where Rand Rare H Ris either H or CH n 1 and Ris one of C CFor OCFin either the meta 3 or para 4 position on the phenyl ring in other preferred embodiments the compounds just described have either an R or S configuration when Ris H.

In a more preferred embodiment a CNS active compound has the Formula 1 above where Rand Rare H Ris either H or CH n 1 and Ris one of C CFor OCFin the para 4 position on the phenyl ring in other more preferred embodiments the compounds just described have either an R or S configuration when Ris H.

In another more preferred embodiment a CNS active compound has the Formula 1 above where R R and Rare H n 1 and Ris either CFor OCFin either the meta 3 or para 4 position on the phenyl ring in other more preferred embodiments the compounds just described have either an R or S configuration.

In a most preferred embodiment a CNS active compound has the Formula 1 above where R R and Rare H n 1 and Ris OCFin the para 4 position on the phenyl ring in other most preferred embodiments the compound just described has either an R or S configuration.

Any one of the compounds described above or a combination of the compounds described above can be included in a pharmaceutical composition. In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition includes a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of the compounds described above blended with at least one of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or an excipient.

In one embodiment the therapeutically effective amount is effective for at least one of the following a to provide anticonvulsant activity to a subject b to treat and or prevent convulsions in a subject c to treat and or prevent seizures in a subject d to treat and or prevent spasticity in a subject e to treat and or prevent affective mood disorders in a subject f to treat and or prevent bipolar mood disorder in a subject g to treat and or prevent chronic headaches in a subject h to treat and or prevent cluster headaches in a subject i to treat and or prevent migraine headaches in a subject j to treat and or prevent restlessness syndromes in a subject k to treat and or prevent neuropathic pain in a subject or l to treat and or prevent movement disorders in a subject.

In still yet another embodiment the present invention includes a CNS active compound of Formula BX or Formula BY or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the compound of Formula BX or BY can be included in a pharmaceutical composition. The pharmaceutical composition includes a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula BX or BY blended with at least one of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or an excipient.

In one embodiment the CNS active compound is present in a therapeutically effective amount to modulate CNS activity. In another embodiment the effective amount is effective for at least one of the following a to provide anticonvulsant activity to a subject b to treat and or prevent convulsions in a subject c to treat and or prevent seizures in a subject d to treat and or prevent spasticity in a subject e to treat and or prevent affective mood disorders in a subject f to treat and or prevent bipolar mood disorder in a subject g to treat and or prevent chronic headaches in a subject h to treat and or prevent cluster headaches in a subject i to treat and or prevent migraine headaches in a subject j to treat and or prevent restlessness syndromes in a subject k to treat and or prevent neuropathic pain in a subject or l to treat and or prevent movement disorders in a subject.

In one embodiment the compound of Formula BX is active for at least one of the following a to provide anticonvulsant activity to a subject b to treat and or prevent convulsions in a subject c to treat and or prevent seizures in a subject or d to treat and or prevent migraine headaches in a subject.

Any one of the compounds described above or a combination of the compounds described above can be included as a therapeutic agent in a in a method for modulating CNS activity in a subject. In one embodiment the therapeutic agent is blended with at least one of the compounds described above blended with at least one of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or an excipient.

In addition the functions described above the therapeutic agent may be sufficient to treat and or prevent the symptoms of at least one of anxiety depression insomnia migraine headaches schizophrenia Parkinson s disease spasticity Alzheimer s disease bipolar disorder chronic or neuropathic pain stroke chronic neurodegenerative diseases cognitive impairment attention deficit hyper activity disorder Huntington s disease traumatic brain injury spinal cord injury or status epilepticus. In addition the therapeutic agent may be sufficient for a chemical countermeasure.

In still yet another embodiment the present invention includes a method for identifying a drug target using at least one of one of the compounds described above or derivatives thereof e.g. a radiolabeled derivative . It is believed for example that owing to the unique mechanisms of action of the compounds described herein that the compounds described in the present application may interact with unique targets. As such compounds described in the present application may be useful as probes for discovering unique targets for treating one or more of the disorders e.g. neurological disorders epilepsy and the like described herein.

These and other embodiments and features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

The inventors have discovered that the compounds of the invention and certain of their pharmacologically active analogs and congeners can be administered in vivo to effect a modulation of CNS activity. That is these agents modulate CNS activity by enhancing inhibitory or decreasing excitatory neurotransmission centrally without complete suppression of all activity. Pursuant to the present invention therefore a subject who receives such an agent is not overtly sedated anesthetized or paralyzed in the context of for example decreasing seizures no anesthesia decreasing muscle tone no paralysis eliciting a calmative effect no sedation or ameliorating an ambulatory syndrome such as spasticity no weakness or flaccidity .

A number of pathologies exemplified by convulsions seizures spasticity affective mood disorders such as bipolar mood disorder headaches chronic cluster migraine restlessness syndromes neuropathic pain and movement disorders have at least one symptom that is alleviated by a modulation of CNS activity. Accordingly an individual who suffers from such a pathology is a candidate for therapy that entails pursuant to the present invention the individuals receiving a pharmaceutical formulation or composition containing the compounds of the invention or one of their structurally related analogs or congeners as one of the principal active ingredients.

CONVULSIONS Epilepsy is a common disorder which has many causes and it can be very difficult to control clinically often requiring treatment for many years to keep seizures under control. Researchers have stated that a t this time there is no satisfactory treatment for epilepsy in a substantial proportion of patients. Clinical trials have shown that certain patients have a better response to one drug than another even when the patients have similar types of seizures and the drugs have similar mechanisms of action. The frequency and severity of side effects also varies substantially. Thus multiple medications with different mechanisms of action and attendant side effects will be needed for treatment of epilepsy until either epilepsy can be cured or a potent safe new drug with broad activity is discovered and developed. Dichter et al. 334 1583 1996 .

Due to the widespread availability of reasonably predictive and experimentally accessible animal models of convulsant states a number of clinically useful anticonvulsants have been prepared and developed. For example see Cereghino et al. Introduction in ANTIEPILEPTIC DRUGS 4th ed. pages 1 11 Rave Press 1995 which states In many patients seizures can be controlled with currently available antiepileptic drugs but 25 to 30 percent of patients continue to have seizures despite optimal therapy while many others experience unacceptable side effects. Dichter et al. 1996 supra.

Thus many anticonvulsants in clinical use are plagued by the occurrence of significant side effects including troublesome daytime sedation muscular weakness tolerance gingival hyperplasia and potentially fatal blood dyscrasias and hepatotoxicity. Many of these side effects are especially of concern in the clinical management treatment of epilepsy in children.

The present invention can be used to treat convulsive disorders such as epilepsy. That is the compositions and pharmaceutical formulations and compositions of the invention display anticonvulsant activity which is evidenced by a reduction of the severity number or duration of convulsions in animal models of epilepsy. To alleviate convulsions includes reducing the severity number of duration of convulsions in a patient. Accordingly the novel compositions and pharmaceutical formulations and compositions should be useful in treating conditions such as but not limited to generalized tonic clonic seizures absence seizures myoclonic seizures simple partial seizures complex partial seizures secondarily generalized partial seizures status epilepticus and trauma induced seizures as occur following head injury or surgery.

SPASTICITY Spasticity is a disorder characterized by an increase in tonic stretch reflexes muscle tone with exaggerated tendon jerks resulting from hyperexcitability of the stretch reflex. Lance Symposia synopsis in SPASTICITY DISORDERED MOTOR CONTROL Feldman et al. Eds. 1980 . Major disease states and conditions associated with spasticity include multiple sclerosis cerebral palsy stroke trauma or injury to the spinal cord and head trauma. Symptoms that occur with spasticity include painful flexor and extensor spasms increased or exaggerated deep tendon reflexes clonus muscular weakness fatigue lack of dexterity various degrees of loss of general motor function paralysis and impairment of sleep.

The pathological states observed in spasticity are fundamentally different at the physiological level from the commonly experienced acute muscular aches strains and sprains that occur from a localized external insult to a particular muscle i.e. outside of or peripheral to the CNS. These pathological states also are different from the relatively common involuntary spasms or smooth muscle such as vascular spasms bladder spasms and bronchial spasms. Such non spastic non CNS peripheral or localized symptoms are commonly treated with so called antispasmodic or spasmolytic agents but these generally are not useful in treating spasticity. Cedarbaum Schleifer Drugs for Parkinson s Disease Spasticity and Acute Muscle Spasms in GOODMAN AND GILMAN S THE PHARMACOLOGICAL BASIS OF THERAPEUTICS 8th ed. hereafter GOODMAN AND GILMAN S pages 463 484 Pergamon Press 1990 .

The compositions of matter and pharmaceutical formulations and compositions employed in accordance with the present invention can cause a centrally mediated decrease in muscle tone and hence are useful for the acute or chronic alleviation of one or more symptoms or side effects of spasticity. In this context spasticity refers to a heightened tone of skeletal muscle with is manifested by symptoms such as but not limited to painful flexor or extensor spasms increased or exaggerated deep tendon reflexes hyperreflexia loss of dexterity muscular weakness exaggerated tendon jerks and clonus. The phrase antispasticity agent refers here to a composition that is useful for the symptomatic treatment of spasticity as demonstrated by the alleviation of at least one of the following manifestations or side effects of spasticity painful flexor or extensor spasms increased or exaggerated deep tendon reflexes hyperreflexia loss of dexterity muscular weakness exaggerated tendon jerks and clonus or the reduction of the frequency of these manifestations or side effects.

Accordingly the alleviation of spasticity refers here to the lessening of one or more symptoms of spasticity including but not limited to painful flexor or extensor spasms increased or exaggerated deep tendon reflexes hyperreflexia loss of dexterity muscle weakness exaggerated tendon jerks and clonus or the reduction of the frequency of these manifestations or side effects.

AFFECTIVE MOOD DISORDERS These include conditions ranging from depression to dysphoric mania for example mania schizoaffective disorder traumatic brain injury induced aggression post traumatic stress disorder bipolar mood disorder panic states and behavioral dyscontrol syndromes. See Emrich et al. 8 243 250 1985 and Bernasconi et al. in ANTICONVULSANTS IN AFFECTIVE DISORDERS pages 14 32 1984 . The novel compositions and pharmaceutical formulations and compositions according to the present invention are effective in the treatment of these diseases disorders and conditions and should exhibit improved side effect profiles when compared to currently existing therapeutic agents in this therapeutic category.

NEUROPATHIC PAIN SYNDROMES Conditions in this category involving neuropathic pain affect a significant number of patients suffering from disorders of the brain or spinal cord such as stroke trauma multiple sclerosis and diabetes. Casey in PAIN AND CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASE Raven 1991 . The use of anticonvulsants to treat various pain states has been documented extensively. Swendlow 7 51 82 1984 . Thus a novel composition or pharmaceutical formulation or composition of the present invention can be applied in similar fashion to ameliorate neuropathic pain.

HEADACHES Headaches of the migraine type Hering and Kuritzky 12 81 84 1992 the cluster type Hering and Kuritzky loc. cit. 9 195 198 1989 and the chronic type Mathew and Sabiha 31 71 74 1991 have been treated with anticonvulsants. The compositions and formulations of the present invention can therefore be used to alleviate the symptoms associated with each of these three headache types without the adverse side effects of current existing therapies.

RESTLESSNESS SYNDROME The phrase restlessness syndrome denotes a somatic non mental restlessness characterized by involuntary movement of the limbs as well as by a sense of physical rather than mental agitation which is independent of mood and hence is distinguished from restlessness per se. See Sachev et al. 30 38 53 1996 .

Restlessness syndromes inclusive of numerous indications can be observed in association with many organic and non organic psychiatric illnesses. For example drug induced restlessness tardive chronic and withdrawal akathisias such as drug induced extrapyramidal symptoms is one of the most common side effects of neuroleptic drug therapy. Also within the restlessness syndrome rubric are the so called restless leg syndrome and sleep related periodic leg movements pathologies that can be associated with head and or spinal cord trauma and with lesions of the spinal cord. Idiopathic restless leg syndrome follows an autosomal dominant inheritance with a variable clinical expression of symptoms. See O Keefe 156 243 248 1996 Danek et al. in NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS COURSE AND TREATMENT pages 819 823 Academic Press 1996 Mellick and Mellick 45 suppl. 285 286 1995 . The present invention provides an effective therapy for restlessness syndromes with minimal side effects.

MOVEMENT DISORDERS Various agents are known to decrease the dyskinetic movement characterizing movement disorders such as Parkinson s disease Huntington s chorea Alzheimer s disease tardive dyskinesia and stiff man syndrome. Lloyd and Morselli in PSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY THE THIRD GENERATION OF PROGRESS Raven Press 1987 . A therapy within the present invention alleviates one or more symptoms of a movement disorder.

By neurological disorder or disease is meant a disorder or disease of the nervous system including but not limited to epilepsy anxiety multiple sclerosis strokes head trauma spinal cord injuries and chronic neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson s and Huntington s diseases Alzheimer s disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Also meant by neurological disorder or disease are those disease states and conditions in which an antispastic or anticonvulsant may be indicated useful recommended and or prescribed.

By neurodegenerative disease is meant diseases such as but not limited to Huntington s Disease Parkinson s Disease Alzheimer s Disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS .

By anticonvulsant is meant a compound capable of reducing the severity number or duration of convulsions produced observed or found in conditions such as generalized tonic clonic seizures absence seizures myoclonic seizures simple partial seizures complex partial seizures secondarily generalized partial seizures status epilepticus and trauma induced seizures as occur following head injury or surgery.

By anticonvulsant activity is meant efficacy in reducing the severity number or duration of convulsions produced observed or found in conditions such as generalized tonic clonic seizures absence seizures myoclonic seizures simple partial seizures complex partial seizures secondarily generalized partial seizures status epilepticus and trauma induced seizures as occur following head injury or surgery.

By therapeutic dose is meant an amount of a compound that relieves to some extent one or more symptoms of the disease or condition of the patient. Additionally by therapeutic dose is meant an amount that returns to normal either partially or completely physiological or biochemical parameters associated with or causative of the disease or condition. Generally it is an amount between about 0.1 15 20 30 mg kg body weight depending on the age size and disease associated with the patient. The dosing can be one to four times a day.

By pharmaceutical composition is meant a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the present invention in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier i.e. a formulation to which the compound can be added to dissolve or otherwise facilitate administration of the compound. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include water saline and physiologically buffered saline. Such a pharmaceutical composition is provided in a suitable dose. Such compositions are generally those which are approved for use in treatment of a specific disorder by the FDA or its equivalent in non U.S. countries.

It is understood that certain of the compounds of the present invention have one or more chiral stereocenter s . Such compounds may demonstrate preferred biological activity as a racemic or diastereomeric mixture as a mixture of R and S enantiomers or diastereomers or as pure enantiomers R or S or diastereomers . When one pure enantiomer shows preferred biological activity it is this preferred enantiomer is referred to as the eutomer whereas the less preferred less biologically active enantiomer is referred to as the distomer.

METHODS FOR PREPARING PHARMACEUTICAL FORMULATIONS AND COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR ADMINISTRATION As demonstrated herein useful pharmaceutical formulations and compositions of this invention may be used to treat neurological disorders or diseases. While these preparations will typically be used in therapy for human patients they may also be used to treat similar or identical diseases in other vertebrates such as other primates domestic animals farm animals such as swine cattle and poultry and sports animals and pets such as horses dogs and cats.

The present invention also is directed to pharmaceutical formulations and compositions containing combinations of two or more of the active compounds described above. The compounds of the present invention can be prepared formulated according to known methods for preparing pharmaceutically useful compositions whereby active agents are combined in a mixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier s . For instance see Gennaro Ed. REMINGTON S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES 18th ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1990 and GOODMAN AND GILMAN S THE PHARMACOLOGICAL BASIS OF THERAPEUTICS. A compound and or a composition is said to be in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier if its administration can be tolerated by a recipient patient. Sterile phosphate buffered saline is one example of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Other suitable carriers e.g. saline and Ringer s solutions are well known to those skilled in the art see below .

The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes a suitable excipient and or auxiliary whose administration is tolerated by the patient. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers which are known in the art include but are not limited to calcium carbonate calcium phosphate calcium sulfate sucrose dextrose lactose fructose xylitol sorbitol starch starch paste cellulose derivatives gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone sodium chloride dextrins stearic acid magnesium stearate calcium stearate vegetable oils polyethylene glycol sterile phosphate buffered saline saline and Ringer s solutions and mixtures thereof. See for example REMINGTON S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES supra.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of organic acids such as amino acids which have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for commercial marketing include sodium potassium lithium zinc aluminum calcium and magnesium salts. See REMINGTON S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES 18th ed. page 1445 Mack Publishing Co. 1990 .

The compounds of the present invention and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are formulated as known in the art. For instance the compound s of the present invention may be combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier s and processed into a desired dosage form. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be produced or manufactured in a manner that is itself known e.g. by means of conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making levigating emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or lyophilizing processes which involve both the pharmaceutical composition of interest and its pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In general the dosages of the compounds formulations and compositions described herein will vary depending upon such factors as the patient s age weight height sex general medical condition and previous medical history. For purposes of therapy a composition of the present invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier are administered to a subject in need of such treatment in a therapeutically effective amount. The combination of active agents and carrier formulation or composition is said to be administered in a therapeutically effective amount if the amount administered is physiologically significant. A pharmaceutical composition is physiologically significant if its presence results in a detectable change in the physiology of a recipient patient. In the present context for example an anticonvulsant composition is physiologically significant if the presence of the composition results in the alleviation of one or more symptoms of epilepsy such as seizures and or convulsions. Further the dose and perhaps dose frequency will also vary according to the age body weight and response of the individual patient. A program comparable to that discussed above may be used in veterinary medicine.

The compounds of the present invention can be administered orally using solid oral dosage forms such as for example enteric coated tablets caplets gelcaps sprinkles or capsules or via liquid oral dosage forms such as syrups or elixirs. Unit solid oral dosage forms preferably contain appropriate amounts of active compounds per tablet or capsule such that they can be taken 1 2 at a time for a maximum of two times per day. Liquid formulations can also be employed with active compounds so as to provide 1 2 teaspoonfuls per dose. Furthermore corresponding reduced dosage pediatric chewable and liquid oral dosage forms can also be prepared and administered. These compounds can also be added to foods and beverages in the form of drops with a dropper from a concentrate preparation for oral administration. In addition the compounds of the present invention may also be formulated into chewing gum to facilitate oral delivery and absorption. Appropriate dosages for each of the compounds used in the formulations and compositions of the present invention can be discerned from the foregoing descriptions by those skilled in the art.

Alternatively the compounds of the present invention can be administered by injection or other systemic routes such as transdermal or transmucosal administration for example nasally sublingually buccally vaginally or rectally via suppositories. Other routes of administration e.g. useful in veterinary applications include intestinal and parenteral delivery including intramuscular subcutaneous and or intramedullary injections as well as intrathecal direct intracerebroventricular intravenous intraperitoneal intranasal or intraocular injections. Oral administration is much more convenient however and therefore is preferred.

The present invention thus contemplates a variety of compounds that are suitable for oral parenteral transdermal transmucosal intranasal sublingual buccal or rectal administration. It is further understood that the compounds of the present invention can be used in combination with other pharmaceutically active ingredients to prepare still other novel pharmaceutical compositions.

DEMONSTRATING THERAPY IMPLICATING AND THERAPEUTICALLY RELEVANT ACTIVITY The suitability and therapeutic effectiveness of a given pharmaceutical formulation or composition for the alleviation of symptoms as discussed above can be demonstrated by using the animal models testing and screening methods which are described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 589 994 6 617 358 and 7 265 155 which are hereby incorporated herein in their entirety.

The therapeutic effects of the compounds of the invention described above combined with a general lack of toxicity make the compounds of the present invention ideal agents for the treatment of the conditions described above. With this background the present invention will be understood more readily by those skilled in the art by reference to the examples below which are provided for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the invention.

A solution of 3 4 chlorophenyl 3 methylbutyric acid 6.1 g 41.9 mmol in CHCl 100 mL and DMF 0.2 mL was treated with oxalyl chloride 5.2 mL 7.45 mmol at 0 C. under static nitrogen. The reaction solution was stirred at room temperature overnight under nitrogen. The excess dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was azeotroped by toluene 50 mL .

Ammonia gas was bubbled through the solution of the acid chloride 3 4 chlorophenyl 3 methylbutyryl chloride in anhydrous THF 100 mL at 5 degrees Celsius for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature under static nitrogen.

The white precipitate ammonium chloride was filtered and washed with THF 100 mL . The filtrate and wash solution were combined and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting white solid was re dissolved in ethyl acetate 300 mL . The ethyl acetate layer was washed with HO 1.0 M HCl a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine solution. The ethyl acetate solution was then dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting white solid was triturated with a chilled solution of diethyl ether and hexane 50 50 . This afforded 4.22 g of white flakes 3 4 chlorophenyl 3 methylbutyramide 69 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by GC MS analysis. H NMR spectroscopy gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

A solution of 3 4 chlorophenyl 3 methylbutyric acid 5.95 g 28 mmol in CHCl 100 mL and DMF 0.2 mL was treated with oxalyl chloride 5.2 mL 7.45 mmol at 0 C. under static nitrogen. The reaction solution was stirred at room temperature overnight under nitrogen. The excess dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was azeotroped by toluene 50 mL .

The residue was dissolved in 150 mL of dry THF and treated with methylamine solution 2.0 M in THF 45 mL 84 mmol at 5 degrees Celsius. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature under static nitrogen.

The white precipitate was filtered and washed with THF 100 mL . The filtrate and wash solution were combined and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting white solid was re dissolved in diethyl ether 300 mL . The ether layer was washed with HO 1.0 M HCl a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine solution. The ether solution was then dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting white solid was triturated with a chilled solution of diethyl ether and hexane 50 50 . This afforded 5.46 g of white flakes 3 4 chlorophenyl 3 N dimethylbutyramide 86 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by GC MS analysis. H NMR spectroscopy gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

A solution of R 3 phenylbutyric acid 4 g 24.36 mmol in CHCl 75 mL and DMF 0.1 mL was treated with oxalyl chloride 3.0 mL 34.0 mmol at 0 C. under static nitrogen. The reaction solution was stirred at room temperature overnight under nitrogen. The excess dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was azeotroped by toluene 50 mL .

Ammonia gas was bubbled through the solution of the acid chloride R 3 phenylbutyrl chloride in anhydrous THF 100 mL at 5 degrees Celsius for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature under static nitrogen.

The white precipitate ammonium chloride was filtered and washed with THF 100 mL . The filtrate and wash solution were combined and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting white solid was re dissolved in ethyl acetate 300 mL . The ethyl acetate layer was washed with HO 1.0 M HCl a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine solution. The ethyl acetate solution was then dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. Crude material was purified using a Biotage SP4 System Column Si 40 M 0344 1 95 5 CHCl MeOH . The resulting off white solid was triturated with a chilled solution of diethyl ether and hexane 50 50 . This afforded 2.9 g of white solid R 3 phenylbutyramide 73 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by GC MS analysis. H NMR spectroscopy gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

In a 3 necked 500 mL round bottomed flask a suspension of sodium hydride 60 in oil 1.1 eq. 80 mmol 3.20 g in N N dimethylformamide DMF 100 mL under nitrogen was treated drop wise with a solution of triethyl phosphonoacetate 1.2 eq. 87 mmol 19.50 g in DMF 50 mL . After the addition the reaction mixture was heated in a water bath 100 C. until all visible signs of the sodium hydride were gone 30 minutes . The mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and then treated with a solution of 3 fluoroacetophenone 1.0 eq. 10 g 72.4 mmol in DMF 50 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours at ambient temperature and a 1 mL aliquot was removed and quenched in water 2 mL . Diethyl ether 2 mL was added to this and the mixture was equilibrated. Analysis of the organic layer by GC MS showed complete consumption of the starting benzophenone. As a result the reaction mixture was quenched by the addition of water. The mixture was transferred to a large round bottomed flask and the majority of the solvents were removed using a rotary evaporator. The mixture was cooled and transferred to a separatory funnel using a diethyl ether 500 mL and water 250 mL . The mixture was equilibrated and the aqueous layer was removed. The organic layer was washed an additional 3 times with water 3 250 mL . GC MS analysis of this solution showed only product with no remaining phosphonoacetate . The organic solution was dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated to afford 18.09 g of crude material containing oil from the sodium hydride .

A solution of crude of 3 3 fluorophenyl but 2 enoic acid ethyl ester 9 g 0.015 mmol in methanol 75 mL was treated with Pd C 10 450 mg . The reaction mixture was subjected to hydrogenation at 45 psi for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was passed through a Celite plug to remove palladium on carbon. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. This afforded 10.1 g of a colorless oil 3 3 fluorophenyl butyric acid ethyl ester . The material was determined to be 94 pure by GC MS analysis. This product was used without purification to remove mineral oil .

A crude solution of 3 3 fluorophenyl butyric acid ethyl ester 10.1 g 48 mmol in ethanol 50 mL was treated with 10 M NaOH solution 50 mL 857 mmol . The reaction mixture was refluxed overnight. The reaction mixture was dried under reduced pressure in order to get rid of the ethyl alcohol. The resulting residue was re dissolved in 150 mL of water. The mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel using water 50 mL and diethyl ether 200 mL . The mixture was equilibrated and the ether layer was removed. The aqueous layer was acidified by HCl solution pH 2 and extracted with diethyl ether 300 mL . The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. This afforded 8.1 g of an orange viscous oil 3 3 fluorophenyl butyric acid 92.6 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by GC MS analysis.

A solution of 3 3 fluorophenyl butyric acid 8.1 g 44.46 mmol in CHCl 100 mL and DMF 0.7 mL was treated with oxalyl chloride 5.43 mL 7.9 mmol at 0 C. under static nitrogen. The reaction solution was stirred at room temperature overnight under nitrogen. The excess dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was azeotroped by toluene 70 mL .

Ammonia gas was bubbled through the solution of the acid chloride 3 3 fluoro phenyl butyryl chloride in anhydrous THF 100 mL at 5 degrees Celsius for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature under static nitrogen.

The white precipitate ammonium chloride was filtered and washed with THF 200 mL . The filtrate and wash solution were combined and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting white solid was re dissolved in ethyl acetate 350 mL . The ethyl acetate layer was washed with HO 1.0 M HCl a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine solution. The ethyl acetate solution was then dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting white solid was triturated with a chilled solution of diethyl ether and hexane 50 50 . This afforded 6.8 g of off white powder of 3 3 fluorophenyl butyramide 84 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by GC MS analysis a mixture of R and S enantiomers . H NMR spectroscopy gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

Compounds E N were prepared using the corresponding acetophenones shown in Table 1 below with the method used for the preparation of Compound D in Example 4 above. In addition Compound M Example 13 and Compound N Example 14 were prepared using the corresponding amines i.e. methylamine and dimethylamine respectively. All of the final products were determined to be 100 pure by GC MS analysis. H NMR spectroscopy of each final product gave signals consistent with its structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

A solution of 4 g 0.1 mol of sodium hydroxide in 100 mL of HO and 11.9 g 0.1 mol of 4 cyanophenol was heated at reflux for 15 minutes. Butyrolactone 8.6 g 0.1 mol was added to the refluxing solution over 15 hours. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature. The reaction solution was transferred to a separatory funnel using water 200 mL and diethyl ether 200 mL . The mixture was equilibrated and the ether layer was removed. The aqueous layer was acidified by HCl solution pH 2 and extracted with ethyl acetate 300 mL . The ethyl acetate layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 10.78 g of crude product. This crude material was purified using a Biotage SP4 System Column Si 65i 9 1 CHCl MeOH which afforded 9.87 g of a pale yellow viscous oil 3 4 cyanophenoxy butyric acid which solidified upon standing at room temperature. This material was determined to be 96 pure by GC MS analysis. This material was used without further purification.

A crude solution of 3 4 cyanophenoxy butyric acid 10.8 g 52.6 mmol in CHCl 100 mL and DMF 0.21 mL was treated with oxalyl chloride 6 mL 68.4 mmol at 0 C. under static nitrogen. The reaction solution was stirred at room temperature overnight under nitrogen. The excess dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure.

Ammonia gas was bubbled through the solution of the acid chloride 3 4 cyanophenoxy butyryl chloride in anhydrous CHCl 150 mL at 5 degrees Celsius for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature under static nitrogen.

The white precipitate ammonium chloride was filtered and washed with CHCl 100 mL . The filtrate and wash solution were combined and evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting white solid was re dissolved in ether 250 mL . The ether layer washed with HO 1.0 M HCl a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine solution. The ether solution was then dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. Crude material was purified using a Biotage SP4 System Column Si 40 M 0344 1 95 5 CHCl MeOH . This afforded 2.987 g of an off white solid 3 4 cyanophenoxy butyramide 29 yield . This material was determined to be 97 pure by GC MS analysis. H NMR spectroscopy gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

A solution trans 2 phenylcyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid 2.1 g. 12.8 mmol in CHCl 50 mL and DMF 0.20 mL was treated with oxalyl chloride 1.5 mL 16.7 mmol at 0 C. under static nitrogen. The reaction solution was stirred at room temperature overnight under nitrogen. The excess dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure.

Ammonia gas was bubbled through the solution of the acid chloride trans 2 phenylcyclopropane 1 carboxyl chloride in anhydrous CHCl 100 mL at 5 degrees Celsius for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature under nitrogen.

The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue re dissolved in an ethyl acetate water mixture. The mixture was transferred to a reparatory funnel using HO 60 mL and ethyl acetate 100 mL . The mixture was equilibrated and the aqueous phase was removed. The organic layer was washed with 1.0 M HCl 10 mL HO 70 mL and brine 75 mL consecutively. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and the excess solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting light brown solid was purified using a Biotage SP4 System Column Si 40 S 90 10 CHCl MeOH which afforded 1.127 g of white powder trans 2 phenylcyclopropane 1 carboxamide 54 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by GC MS analysis. H NMR spectroscopy gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

A solution of trans 2 phenylcyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid 0.905 g. 5.6 mmol in CHCl 30 mL and DMF 0.05 mL was treated with oxalyl chloride 0.65 mL 7.23 mmol at 0 C. under static nitrogen. The reaction solution was stirred at room temperature overnight under nitrogen. The excess dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure.

The solution of the acid chloride trans 2 phenylcyclopropane 1 carboxyl chloride in CHCl 50 mL was added drop wise in to a solution of H Leu NH L leucine amide S 2 amino 4 methyl n valeramide 0.761 g 5.8 mmol and triethylamine 1.13 g 11.1 mmol in CHCl 60 mL at zero degrees Celsius. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen overnight.

The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was re dissolved in an ethyl acetate water mixture. The mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel using HO 50 mL and ethyl acetate 80 mL . The mixture was equilibrated and the aqueous phase was removed. The organic layer was washed with 1.0 M HCl 20 mL HO 90 mL and brine 120 mL consecutively. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and the excess solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting orange brown solid was purified using a Biotage SP4 System Column Si 40 M 90 10 CHCl MeOH which afforded 0.365 g of white powder trans 2 phenylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid S 1 carbamoyl 3 methylbutyl amide 24 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by GC MS analysis. H NMR spectroscopy gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

A stirred suspension of lithium aluminum hydride 0.211 mol in anhydrous ether 200 mL is treated with 1 4 methoxyphenyl 1 cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 0.1406 mol in 100 mL of ether at 0 C. The reaction mixture is then stirred at room temperature under nitrogen overnight. The reaction mixture is quenched by the drop wise addition of 100 mL of deionized HO. The mixture is filtered and the cake solid is washed with diethyl ether 1 L . The filtrate mixture ether and water is transferred into a separatory funnel. The organic layer is separated from the aqueous layer and washed with brine solution. The ether layer is dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure at room temperature. This affords 1 4 methoxy phenyl cyclopropyl methanol.

A neat solution of 1 4 methoxyphenyl cyclopropyl methanol 0.074 mol is treated with phosphorous tribromide 0.081 mol drop wise at 0 C. under static nitrogen. The reaction solution is heated to 130 C. and the temperature is maintained for 6 hours. The reaction mixture is cooled down to room temperature and the orange precipitate is filtered off. The orange precipitate is washed with 200 mL of diethyl ether. The filtrate is transferred into a separatory funnel using 150 mL of water and 200 mL of diethyl ether. The mixture is equilibrated and the aqueous layer is extracted one more time with 200 mL of diethyl ether. The ether extracts and ether wash are combined and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and brine. Then the ether extracts are dried over magnesium sulfate and the excess diethyl ether is removed under reduced pressure at 30 C. This affords 1 1 bromomethyl cyclopropyl 4 methoxybenzene. The crude material is converted into the corresponding nitrile without further purification.

A crude solution of 1 1 bromomethyl cyclopropyl 4 methoxybenzene 60.3 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 60 mL is treated with sodium cyanide 180.7 mmol . The reaction mixture is heated to 95 degrees Celsius overnight under nitrogen. The reaction mixture is transferred to a separatory funnel using brine 150 mL and chloroform 300 mL . The reaction mixture is equilibrated and the aqueous layer is removed. The aqueous layer is extracted an additional two times with chloroform 2 300 mL . The combined organic extract is dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 1 4 methoxyphenyl cyclopropyl acetonitrile. This crude material is used in the next step hydrolysis of the nitrile to the corresponding amide without further purification. Alternatively the corresponding carboxylic acid can be obtained from this material by acid hydrolysis e.g. using sulfuric acid . 

A solution of 1 4 methoxyphenyl cyclopropyl acetonitrile 60.4 mmol in DMSO 75 mL is treated with HO 50 w w 434 mmol and potassium carbonate 121 mmol at zero degrees Celsius. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature over the weekend. The reaction mixture is transferred into a separatory funnel using water 100 mL and CHCl 200 mL . The mixture is equilibrated and the CHCllayer is removed. The aqueous layer is extracted two additional times with CHCl 2 300 mL . The combined CHClextracts are washed 5 consecutive times with water 5 200 mL followed by a brine 500 mL wash dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure which affords 2 1 4 methoxyphenyl cyclopropyl acetamide.

A stirred suspension of lithium aluminum hydride 0.211 mol in anhydrous ether 200 mL is treated with 2 4 chlorophenoxy 2 methylpropanoic acid 0.1406 mol in 100 mL of ether at 0 C. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature under nitrogen overnight. The reaction mixture is quenched by the drop wise addition of 100 mL of deionized HO. The mixture is filtered and the cake solid is washed with diethyl ether 1 L . The filtrate mixture ether and water is transferred into a separatory funnel. The organic layer is separated from the aqueous layer and washed with brine solution. The ether layer is dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure at room temperature. This affords 2 4 chlorophenoxy 2 methylpropan 1 ol.

A neat solution of 2 4 chlorophenoxy 2 methylpropan 1 ol 0.074 mol is treated with phosphorous tribromide 0.081 mol drop wise at 0 C. under static nitrogen. The reaction solution is heated to 130 C. and the temperature is maintained for 6 hours. The reaction mixture is cooled down to room temperature and the orange precipitate is filtered off. The orange precipitate is washed with 200 mL of diethyl ether. The filtrate is transferred into a separatory funnel using 150 mL of water and 200 mL of diethyl ether. The mixture is equilibrated and the aqueous layer is extracted one more time with 200 mL of diethyl ether. The ether extracts and ether wash are combined and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and brine. Then the ether extract is dried over magnesium sulfate and the excess diethyl ether is removed under reduced pressure at 30 C. This affords 1 2 bromo 1 1 dimethylethoxy 4 chlorobenzene. The crude 1 2 bromo 1 1 dimethylethoxy 4 chlorobenzene is converted into the corresponding nitrile without further purification.

A crude solution of 1 2 bromo 1 1 dimethylethoxy 4 chlorobenzene 60.3 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 60 mL is treated with sodium cyanide 180.7 mmol . The reaction mixture is heated to 95 degrees Celsius overnight under nitrogen. The reaction mixture is transferred into a separatory funnel using brine 150 mL and chloroform 300 mL . The reaction mixture is equilibrated and the aqueous layer is removed. The aqueous layer is extracted an additional two times with chloroform 2 300 mL . The combined organic extracts are dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 3 4 chlorophenoxy 3 methylbutyronitrile. This crude material is used in the next step hydrolysis of the nitrile into the corresponding amide without further purification. Alternatively the corresponding carboxylic acid can be obtained from this material by acid hydrolysis e.g. using sulfuric acid . 

A solution of 3 4 chlorophenoxy 3 methylbutyronitrile 60.4 mmol in DMSO 75 mL is treated with HO 50 w w 434 mmol and potassium carbonate 121 mmol at zero degrees Celsius. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature over the weekend. The reaction mixture is transferred into a separatory funnel using water 100 mL and CHCl 200 mL . The mixture is equilibrated and the CHCllayer is removed. The aqueous layer is extracted two additional times with CHCl 2 300 mL . The combined CHClextracts are washed 5 consecutive times with water 5 200 mL followed by a brine 500 mL wash dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure which affords 3 4 chlorophenoxy 3 methylbutyramide.

Acetylacetonatobis ethylene rhodium I 0.3 mmol S 2 2 Bis diphenyl phosphino 1 1 binaphthalene 0.045 mmol 4 trifluoromethyl phenylboronic acid 2 mmol KCO 0.5 mmol and but 2 enoic acid amide 1 mmol are added into a 25 mL round bottomed flask containing a magnetic stirrer bar a septum inlet and a reflux condenser. The flask is flashed with argon and then charged with 1 4 dioxane 3 mL and de ionized HO 0.5 mL . The reaction mixture is stirred for 16 hours at 100 C. The R 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl butyramide is extracted with ethyl acetate washed with brine and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Chromatography over silica gel gives the desired product.

To a chilled 0 C. solution of lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide 1.0 M 50 mL was dropwise added a solution of trimethylphosphonoacetate keeping the temperature below 10 C. The solution was then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for an additional five minutes after which a solution of 4 trifluoromethyl propiophenone in THF 25 mL was added in one portion. The solution was slowly heated to 50 C. for eight hours. The solution was cooled to room temperature then diluted with a 10 NHCl solution 100 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic layers were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a white solid which was recrystallized from hexane ethyl acetate to give 5.42 grams of 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl pent 2 enoic acid methyl ester intermediate 85 yield .

To a solution of 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl pent 2 enoic acid methyl ester in THF MeOH was added a solution of sodium hydroxide in HO 15 mL . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours and acetic acid 3 grams was added. The solution was then concentrated to an oil. The oil was dissolved in ethyl acetate 100 mL and washed with HO 3 100 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to a semi solid which was then dissolved in MeOH THF 2 1 50 mL and shaken with 10 Pd C under 50 psi of hydrogen pressure for 24 hours. TLC showed that the reaction was incomplete. Additional 10 Pd C was added 500 mg and the suspension was shaken for an additional 24 hours. The suspension was then filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a semi solid 4.97 g . The solid was dissolved in CHCl 30 mL and the resulting solution cooled to 0 C. To this solution was added oxalyl chloride followed by one drop of DMF from a 9 inch disposable pipette. The solution was stirred for 8 hours and then concentrated to a solid which was dissolved in additional CHCl 30 mL . The solution was again concentrated to a semi solid which was dissolved in additional CHCl 50 mL and the resulting solution added dropwise to a chilled 5 C. and mechanically stirred solution of NHOH 10 mL over approximately five minutes. The suspension was then concentrated to a gummy aqueous mixture which was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a crude amber solid which was adsorbed onto silica gel 50 g using CHCl THF. The solid was then chromatographed on silica gel EtOAc hexane to give 2.25 grams of off white solid 37 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by LC MS. H NMR gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

To a chilled 0 C. solution of lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide 1.0 M 56 mL was dropwise added a solution of trimethylphosphonoacetate keeping the temperature below 10 C. The solution was then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for an additional five minutes after which a solution of p isobutylacetophenone in THF 25 mL was added in one portion. The solution was slowly heated to 65 C. and allowed to reflux for thirty hours. The solution was cooled to room temperature then diluted with a 10 NHCl solution 100 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic layers were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and filtrate concentrated to a white solid which was recrystallized from hexane ethyl acetate to give 5.93 grams of 3 4 isobutylphenyl but 2 enoic acid methyl ester intermediate 89.9 yield .

To a solution of 3 4 isobutylphenyl but 2 enoic acid methyl ester in THF MeOH was added a solution of sodium hydroxide in HO 15 mL . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours and acetic acid 3 grams was added. The solution was then concentrated to an oil. The oil was dissolved in ethyl acetate 150 mL and washed with HO 3 100 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to a solid 4.98 g which was then dissolved in MeOH THF 2 1 50 mL and shaken with 10 Pd C under 50 psi of hydrogen pressure for 24 hours. TLC showed that the reaction was incomplete. Additional 10 Pd C was added 500 mg and the suspension was shaken for an additional 24 hours. The suspension was then filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a solid 4.75 g . The solid was dissolved in CHCl 30 mL and the resulting solution cooled to 0 C. To this solution was added oxalyl chloride followed by one drop of DMF from a 9 inch disposable pipette. The solution was stirred for six hours and then concentrated to a solid which was dissolved in additional CHCl 30 mL . The solution was again concentrated to a semi solid which was dissolved in additional CHCl 50 mL and the resulting solution added dropwise to a chilled 5 C. and mechanically stirred solution of NHOH 10 mL over approximately five minutes. The suspension was then concentrated to a solid aqueous mixture which was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a crude solid which was adsorbed onto silica gel 50 g using CHCl THF. The solid was then chromatographed on silica gel EtOAc Hexane to give 2.5 grams of off white solid 40 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by LC MS. H NMR gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

To a chilled 0 C. solution of lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide 1.0 M 50 mL was dropwise added a solution of trimethylphosphonoacetate keeping the temperature below 10 C. The solution was then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for an additional ten minutes after which a solution of 2 acetyl 6 methoxynaphthalene in THF 20 mL was added in one portion. The solution was slowly heated to 50 C. for fourteen hours. The solution was cooled to room temperature then diluted with a 10 NHCl solution 100 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic layers were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and filtrate concentrated to a white solid which was recrystallized from hexane ethyl acetate to give 5.88 grams of 3 6 methoxynaphthalen 2 yl but 2 enoic acid methyl ester intermediate 92 yield .

To a solution of 3 6 methoxynaphthalen 2 yl but 2 enoic acid methyl ester in THF MeOH was added a solution of sodium hydroxide in HO 15 mL . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours and acetic acid 3 grams was added. The solution was then concentrated to a solid residue. The solid was dissolved in ethyl acetate 150 mL and washed with HO 3 100 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to a solid which was then dissolved in MeOH THF 2 1 50 mL and shaken with 10 Pd C under 50 psi of hydrogen pressure for 24 hours. TLC showed that the reaction was incomplete. Additional 10 Pd C was added 500 mg and the suspension was shaken for an additional 24 hours. The suspension was then filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a semi solid 4.97 g . The solid was dissolved in CHCl 30 mL and the resulting solution cooled to 0 C. To this solution was added oxalyl chloride followed by one drop of DMF from a 9 inch disposable pipette. The solution was stirred for six hours and then concentrated to a solid which was dissolved in additional CHCl 30 mL . The solution was again concentrated to a semi solid which was dissolved in additional CHCl 50 mL and the resulting solution added dropwise to a chilled 5 C. and mechanically stirred solution of NHOH 10 mL over approximately fifteen minutes. The suspension was then concentrated to a gummy aqueous mixture which was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a crude solid which was adsorbed onto silica gel 50 g using CHCl THF. The solid was then chromatographed on silica gel EtOAc hexane to give 1.87 grams of off white solid 32 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by LC MS. H NMR gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

To a chilled 0 C. solution of 2 2 fluoro biphenyl 4 yl propionic acid in THF was added isobutyl chloroformate followed by dropwise addition of TEA. The resulting white slurry was allowed to stir for 1 hour and then diluted with THF 50 mL and filtered. The filter cake was washed with additional THF 50 mL and the filtrate was concentrated to approximately 50 mL using a rotary evaporator. The concentrated filtrate was then stirred at 20 C. and a solution of NaBHin HO 20 mL was dropwise added over a period of 15 minutes. The resulting suspension was stirred for 2 hours at 0 C. diluted with water 200 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The ethyl acetate layers were combined and washed with 1.0 N HCl solution 100 mL followed by a 5 bicarbonate solution wash 100 mL . The ethyl acetate solution was then concentrated to an oily residue of 2 2 fluoro biphenyl 4 yl propanol 4.47 g 95 yield .

To a chilled 0 C. solution of 2 2 fluoro biphenyl 4 yl propanol in CHClwas added methanesulfonyl chloride followed by dropwise addition of TEA. The resulting white slurry was allowed to stir for 1 hour and then diluted with HO 200 mL . The suspension was extracted with CHCl 2 100 mL . The CHCllayers were combined and with water 2 100 mL and a 5 NHOH solution 100 mL . The CHCllayer was then washed with additional HO 200 mL and dried over MgSO. The CHCllayer was concentrated to an oily residue which was dissolved in anhydrous DMF 50 mL . This solution was treated with NaCN and stirred at 60 C. for 14 hours. The TLC indicated one major less polar eluting product relative to mesylate and several minor less polar eluting products relative to both the major and mesylate products. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and diluted with HO 100 mL . The solution was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL dried over MgSO and concentrated to an oily residue which was chromatographed on silica gel 90 Hex 10 EtOAc to give 3 2 fluoro biphenyl 4 yl butyronitrile as an oil which slowly solidified on standing at room temperature 2.05 g 49 yield .

To a solution of 3 2 fluoro biphenyl 4 yl butyronitrile in tent butyl alcohol was added 1.87 g of finely powdered potassium hydroxide. The resulting suspension was stirred and heated to 70 C. for 2.5 hours and cooled to room temperature. The reaction suspension was diluted with 1.0 N HCl solution 100 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were combined and washed with 5 bicarbonate solution 100 mL and then with HO 100 mL . The organics were then dried over MgSO and concentrated to a white solid which was re crystallized several times with EtOAc Hex to give white flaky prisms 1.62 g 75 yield .

To a chilled 0 C. solution of potassium tert butoxide 1.0 M 37.1 mL was dropwise added a solution of trimethylphosphonoacetate keeping the temperature below 25 C. The solution was then allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for an additional five minutes after which a solution of 4 morpholinoacetophenone in THF 20 mL was added in one portion. The solution was slowly heated to 60 C. for 36 hours. The solution was cooled to room temperature then diluted with a 1.0N HCl solution 100 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic layers were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a white solid which was recrystallized from hexane ethyl acetate to give 3.33 grams of 3 4 morpholinophenyl but 2 enoic acid methyl ester intermediate 69.9 yield .

To a solution of 3 4 morpholinophenyl but 2 enoic acid methyl ester in THF MeOH 1 1 was added a solution of sodium hydroxide in HO 15 mL . The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 15 hours and acetic acid 3 grams was added. The pH of the solution was measured at 6.5. The solution was then concentrated to an oil. The oil was dissolved in ethyl acetate 150 mL and washed with HO 3 100 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to an amorphous solid which was then dissolved in MeOH 50 mL and shaken with 10 Pd C under 50 psi of hydrogen pressure for 8 hours. TLC showed that the reaction was complete. The suspension was then filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a semi solid 2.77 g . The semi solid was dissolved in CHCl 30 mL and the resulting solution cooled to 0 C. To this solution was added oxalyl chloride followed by one drop of DMF from a 9 inch disposable pipette. The solution was stirred for four hours and then concentrated to a solid which was dissolved in additional CHCl 30 mL . The solution was again concentrated to a semi solid which was dissolved in additional CHCl 50 mL and the resulting solution added dropwise to a chilled 5 C. and mechanically stirred solution of NHOH 15 mL over approximately five minutes. The solution was then concentrated to a solid aqueous mixture which was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were combined and dried over MgSO filtered and the filtrate concentrated to a crude solid which was adsorbed onto silica gel 50 g using CHCl THF. The solid was then chromatographed on silica gel EtOAc hexane to give 2.1 grams of beige plates 46 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by LC MS. H NMR gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

A solution of trans 2 phenyl cyclopropanecarbonylchloride in CHCl 20 mL was added dropwise into a solution of L 2 aminobutanamide hydrochloride 1.61 g 11.6 mmol and triethylamine 3.36 g 33.2 mmol in CHCl 60 ml at zero degree Celsius. The reaction mixture stirred at room temperature under nitrogen overnight.

The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure and resulting residue re dissolved in ethyl acetate water mixture. The mixture was transferred into a separatory funnel using HO 50 mL and ethyl acetate 80 mL . The mixture was equilibrated and the aqueous phase was removed. The organic layer was washed with 1.0M HCl 20 mL HO 90 mL and brine 120 mL consecutively. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and excess solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting orange brown solid was purified using a Biotage SP4 System Column Si 40 M 90 10 CHCl MeOH which afforded 0.365 g of white powder 24 yield . This material was determined to be 100 pure by GC MS. H NMR gave signals consistent with the product s structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

To a one gallon autoclave was added 4 trifluoromethoxyacetophenone 85.0 g 0.416 mol carbethoxymethylene triphenylphosphorane 159.6 g 0.458 mol 1.1 eq. and toluene 1.0 L . The mixture was heated to 140 C. and stirred overnight. The mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and transferred to a 5 L round bottom flask. The solvent was removed by rotovap and the residue was diluted with hexanes 2.0 L . The solid was removed by filtration and washed with hexanes 1.0 L . The filtrate was concentrated and purified by silica gel chromatography to afford the compound 3 94.2 g 82.5 as a colorless oil.

To compound 3 130.0 g 0.474 mol in ethanol 350 mL was added 6N NaOH 474 mL 1.9 mol 6.0 eq. . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was re dissolved in water 500 mL and extracted by ether 2 300 mL . The aqueous phase was neutralized by 3N HCl to pH 2 and extracted by ethyl acetate 2 500 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to give the compound 4 106.0 g 90.8 as a white solid.

To the compound 4 106.0 g 0.431 mol in THF 600 mL was added Pd C 10 5.0 g . The mixture was subjected to hydrogenation at ambient pressure overnight and filtered through a Celite plug. The filtrate was concentrated to afford compound 5 107.0 g 100 as a colorless oil which solidified upon standing at room temperature.

To a solution of compound 5 70.0 g 0.282 mol in DCM 1.0 L was added DMF 1.0 mL and oxalyl chloride 34.9 mL 0.40 mol 1.47 eq. at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent and excess reagent were removed under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was azeotroped by toluene 300 mL to give compound 6 crude which was used for the next step without further purification.

To a solution of compound 6 crude in anhydrous THF 1.2 L was bubbled ammonia gas for 30 min. at 5 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solid was filtered and washed with THF 500 mL . The filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was dissolved in ethyl acetate 2.0 L washed with water 500 mL 1.0M HCl 300 mL sat. NaHCO 500 mL and brine 500 mL and dried over MgSO. After filtration and evaporation of the solvent the obtained solid was triturated with ether hexanes 1 1 300 mL and dried in a vacuum oven 40 C. 2 h to give compound 7 61.0 g 87.5 as a white solid mp 84 86 C.

Analytical data for compound H 300 MHz proton nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectrum gas chromatography mass spectrometry GC MS liquid chromatography mass selective detection LC MSD and mass spectrum MS are shown in .

The objective of this work was to chirally separate a total of 37.7 g of racemic compound 7 to obtain an approximate 85 yield of both each of its enantiomers. The enantiomeric purity requirement was 98 e.e. for both of the enantiomers.

Feed solubility was 15 g L in the mobile phase. Stirring and heating were required to dissolve the feed. The feed solution was filtered through a 0.2 m filter before use. A total of 37.7 g of racemate was processed. Injection volume was 20 ml every 14.5 min.

The fractions collected from the chromatographic process were concentrated using bench top rotary evaporators at 40 C. and 50 mbar. The products did not crystallize and remain liquidly after overnight under vacuum. The weight of each peak was well over the expected amount. It was decided to wash the products with water to remove the extra weight most likely resulting from the TFA used in the mobile phase. Each peak was dissolved in dichloromethane and washed twice with water. The weights which remained after drying in a vacuum overnight at 40 C. were still slightly higher than expected. Subsequently the products were dissolved in ethyl acetate and then washed twice with sodium bicarbonate before drying under vacuum overnight. The results of the separation are shown below in Table 2.

The enantiomeric excesses were determined by chiral HPLC R R Whelk O 1 10 m 5 cm id 25 cm L . The absolute configuration was assigned by comparison of the retention times of the two enantiomers with previously reported data. Results are shown below in . For a recent review of hydrogenation of olefins with P N ligands see 

The primary amides listed in Table 3 Examples 30 41 were prepared from the corresponding carboxylic acids using the method of Example 1.

The secondary and tertiary amides listed in the Table 4 Examples 42 59 were prepared using the corresponding acid chlorides and amines by the method of Example 2. In certain cases i.e. when the amines used were amino acids the amine hydrochlorides were first rendered as free bases using excess tri ethylamine.

Compounds BU BV and BW were prepared from the corresponding acetophenones by the same method used in the preparation of Examples 4 14 except that for the preparation of BV and BW platinum was used as the catalyst instead of palladium and ambient pressure was used instead of higher pressure e.g. 45 psi .

In a 250 mL three necked flask equipped with a stirring bar an internal thermocouple and a rubber septum was placed BTSA 49 mmol 12 mL in 90 mL THF at 73 C. A hexanes solution of n BuLi 1.6 M 49 mmol 30.6 mL was added dropwise strongly exothermic through a syringe over 25 30 min while maintaining the temperature below 69 C. The mixture was stirred for 15 20 min then a THF 80 mL solution of the ketone 54 mmol 11.02 g was added over 25 30 min while maintaining the temperature below 70 C. After stirring 90 min at around 73 C. the cooling bath was removed and added 1N aq.HCl until pH 5 6. The cold solution was diluted with 400 mL EtOAc and transferred into a separating funnel. The organic layer was separated and washed with water brine then dried MgSO . After concentration the crude solid was suspended in 150 mL hexanes and warmed up to 45 C. while spinning on a rotary evaporator for 10 min. The solid was filtered and further washed with 50 mL hexanes then dried to a constant weight. Yield 10.2 g 79 . H NMR spectroscopy of each final product gave signals consistent with its structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

Compounds CD and CE were synthesized using the corresponding 3 substituted acetophenones via the method used for the preparation of Compound CC in Example 61 above. H NMR spectroscopy of each final product gave signals consistent with its structure and indicated greater than 98 purity.

The anticonvulsant activities of various compounds of the invention were demonstrated in vivo in various rodent mouse and rat models of epilepsy. The animal testing was performed as described in White et al. Discovery and preclinical development of antiepileptic drugs in 5ed. Levy et al. Eds. Lippincott Williams and Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. 2002 968 pp. pp. 36 48 and references contained therein which are hereby incorporated herein in their entirety. The results for compounds A G H I and F are summarized below in Tables 5 and 6.

In addition to the compounds shown in Table 5 above the following compounds also show activity in the MES test at 100 mg kg C Q 2 Q 3 X Y AA AE AL AM AN AO AQ AS BD BE BG BJ BL BR BU and BV and at 300 mg kg D L N P Q 1 AP AR AW BF BM BN and BS.

In addition to the compounds shown in Table 5 above the following compound also shows activity in the s.c. MET test at 100 mg kg Y and at 300 mg kg D J L Q 1 Q 2 X AA AO AP AQ AR BC BD BF BH BI and BM.

In addition to the compounds shown in Table 5 above the following compounds also show activity in the 6 Hz minimal clonic seizure model at 100 mg kg Y Q 1 Q 2 AA AN AX AY BB BL BK and CA at 200 mg kg AE and AW and at 300 mg kg Q.

In the corneal kindled mouse model compound F has an ED 60.6 mg kg and brought the seizure score down to zero at 100 mg kg indicating that it knocked out the epileptic focus.

Two tertiary amide compounds showed evidence of CNS stimulating activity. Specifically mice administered compound BE at 300 mg kg i.p. exhibited tremors 30 minutes after injection and those given compound BH exhibited vocalization and hyperactivity on injection lasting for 5 6 minutes. In addition two further tertiary amide compounds BJ and BT produced diarrhea in the mice 30 minutes after i.p. injection of 100 mg kg of each.

In addition to the compounds shown in Table 6 above the following compounds also show activity in the MES test at 30 mg kg G I P X AA AM AQ AS BE BG BJ and BV.

In addition to the compounds shown in Table 6 above compound G also shows activity in the s.c. MET test at 30 mg kg.

In the Preliminary Hippocampal Kindling Screening in rats i.p. compounds A and H brought the seizure score down to zero at 65 and 100 mg kg respectively indicating that they knocked out the epileptic focus. In the Hippocampal Kindled Rats model compounds A F and H showed activity with EDvalues of 26 29 and 61 mg kg respectively and compound G showed activity by significantly lowering the seizure score at 100 mg kg.

The anticonvulsant activities of various compounds of the present invention were also demonstrated in vivo in two rat models of status epilepticus. The animal testing was performed using the protocols developed in the Anticonvulsant Screening Program ASP at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS National Institutes of Health NIH . The results are summarized below in Table 7.

Compounds A I H and F were tested by Stem Cell Innovations Inc. Houston Tex. in their ACTIVTox Human Liver Cell based assays using C3A hepatocyte cells . Specifically the compounds were tested in the LDH release assay which determines the release of Lactate DeHydrogenase an indicator of cell death at various concentrations of test compound.

A concentration of 100 M of test compound is a much higher level of exposure to liver cells than would ever be expected under physiological conditions. Therefore using 100 M as a standard test concentration for comparative purposes the ratio of the absorbance which measures the level of LDH release resulting from the presence of the test compound versus the negative control is a value known as the average or mean fold control Average Fold Control Average of Absorbance Average of Negative Control . An average fold control value below 1.75 indicates that the test compound has no cyto or hepatotoxic activity in the LDH release assay.

The ACTIVTox data see Table 8 below show that the compounds A I H and F are not cyto or hepatotoxic at physiologically relevant concentrations i.e. 

Compounds A and I were also tested in the ACTIVTox Cell Proliferation Assay and were found to be non toxic to proliferating cells at a concentration of 100 M with mean fold control values of 1.15 and 1.25 respectively.

Compounds of the present invention are active in the mouse formalin pain model significantly decreasing the animals pain response in both the acute and inflammatory phases. Furthermore such compounds have also been shown to exhibit significant analgesic effects against both 

Classical animal pain models such as the formalin test chemically induced nociception and the sciatic nerve ligation model of chronic pain and painful neuropathy including allodynia hyperalgesia and spontaneous pain are described in Ramabadran K. and M. Bansinath Evaluation of analgesic actions of morphine in various pain models in experimental animals in L. D. Kapoor Ed. Haworth Press New York 1997 pp. 255 298.

The racemic compound H is active in the formalin pain model mouse i.p. significantly decreasing the animals pain response in both the acute to 63 of the control and inflammatory also to 63 of the control phases at 76 mg kg i.p. at 0.5 hours . In the sciatic nerve ligation model in rats compound H also significantly increases the allodynic threshold to 455 of the control at a dose of 62 mg kg at 0.5 hours.

One of the active enantiomers of H i.e. BX is also active in the mouse formalin pain model significantly decreasing the animals pain response in both the acute to 84 of the control and inflammatory to 41 of the control phases at 76 mg kg i.p. at 0.5 hours .

The other active enantiomer of H i.e. BY is also active in the mouse formalin pain model significantly decreasing the animals pain response in both the acute to 53 of the control and inflammatory to 24 of the control phases at 76 mg kg i.p. at 0.5 hours . It thus appears that BY is the more potent and effective analgesic enantiomer of H although both of the enantiomers exhibit significant activity in the mouse formalin pain model.

At a dose of 100 mg kg compound G also exhibited a significant analgesic effect in the sciatic nerve ligation model in rats shown by a statistically significant increase of the allodynic threshold to 275 of the control especially at 1 hour post administration. The response threshold for foot withdrawal was measured in grams. The allodynic threshold was observed to decrease in a time dependent manner with the analgesic effect i.e. an increased allodynic threshold still evident in the rats at 2 hours 219 of the control and 4 hours 175 of the control post administration.

The mechanisms of action of many currently marketed anticonvulsant drugs are not fully understood. Although numerous molecular targets exist wherein anticonvulsants may exert an effect the final common pathway appears to be through modulation of voltage gated and or neurotransmitter gated ion channels. Thus the common link among the various proposed mechanisms involves the ability of an anticonvulsant to modulate ion channel function. Presently a number of prototype anticonvulsants are thought to exert their action at least in part by reducing sustained high frequency repetitive firing of action potentials by modulating voltage dependent sodium Na channels. The effect of promising candidate substances on voltage gated Na channels can be assessed using state of the art electrophysiological techniques. Mechanism of action studies for compound H at 100 M and lower concentrations indicate the following 

In connection with the weak antagonist activity seen at NMDA receptors it is noteworthy that no evidence of psychotomimetic and or stereotypical behaviors has been observed in any of the in vivo animal studies that were carried out with the compounds of the present invention even when high doses were administered see Kohl B. K. and G. Dannhardt The NMDA receptor complex A promising target for novel antiepileptic strategies 8 11 Sep. 2001 1275 1289 .

The effects of compound H at a concentration of 100 M on sodium currents were evaluated in electrophysiological studies at holding potentials of 60 and 90 mV using 8 cells . The observed inhibition of sodium currents by compound H expressed as of control S.E.M. was statistically significant although the overall effect was actually very weak i.e. 91 1 and 98 1 respectively . By way of comparison the of control inhibited for typical sodium channel blocking drugs such as phenyloin or lamotrigine is about 50 . Since in addition compound H does not profile like these marketed drugs in the resistant seizure models it appears that the compound of the invention H exerts its unique profile by a combination of mechanisms. This unique profile including protective activity against both convulsive and non convulsive seizures induced in the resistant status epilepticus models further implicates a novel mechanism of action exerted by a unique target which has not yet been identified that explains its activity. With regard to possible non traditional analgesic mechanisms involved in mitigating and relieving chronic neuropathic pain it is noteworthy that the relatively new analgesic agent tramadol Nucynta acts in part as a weak but fast acting serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor traditionally antidepressant mechanisms while several opioids such as methadone have NMDA antagonist activity in addition to their g opioid agonist properties. Other CNS active compounds which have shown analgesic properties as well as NMDA antagonist activity include the psychotropic agent ketamine the centrally active potassium channel opener flupirtine with weak NMDA antagonist properties dextromethorphan ketobemidone and possibly piritramide. Furthermore carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine act principally on sodium channels tricylic antidepressants may also work on sodium channels in peripheral nerves and gabapentin and pregabalin work by blocking specific calcium channels on neurons.

Resistance to Lamotrigine can be induced in rats by treating them with the drug during the kindling acquisition phase i.e. during kindling development in the epileptogenesis phase . Subsequently the fully kindled Lamotrigine refractory rats i.e. now fully manifesting seizures are also resistant cross tolerant to carbamazepine phenyloin and topiramate but not to valproate or diazepam or the clinical Phase III drug candidate retigabine .

The Lamotrigine resistant amygdala kindled rat model LRM may thus serve as an early model of drug resistant i.e. pharmacoresistant refractory epilepsy to identify novel AEDs for further evaluation in more extensive model systems including the phenyloin resistant kindled rat see Engel J. T. A. Pedley J. Aicardi and M. A. Dichter Eds. 1 2ed. Lippincott Williams and Wilkins 2007 p. 1477 .

The LRM thus serves to identify novel broad spectrum AEDs which may be effective in the treatment of drug resistant epilepsies. Up to 35 of epilepsy patients continue to suffer from uncontrolled seizures because of their drug resistant epilepsies. In such cases the patients do not respond to standard AEDs such as lamotrigine Lamictal carbamazepine Tegretol phenyloin Dilantin and topiramate Topamax .

The only currently marketed AED which is effective in this animal model LRM is the very broad spectrum agent valproate. Since compound H is also active in the LRM it thus shares valproate s wide ranging anticonvulsant and antiepileptic activities.

The Gender Neutral test demonstrates the differences between the genders in the way that they respond to AEDs. In this test compound H was found to be equally efficacious in both genders unlike e.g. phenyloin Dilantin which is significantly less effective in male kindled rats than it is in female kindled rats see Ebert U. C. Rundfeldt and W. Loscher Sex differences in the anticonvulsant efficacy of phenyloin in amygdala kindled rats 638 1 2 28 February 45 52 1994 .

Out of eight human CYP 450 enzymes tested compound H has either no or only a remote possibility of inhibiting four of the tested enzymes 3A4 2E1 2B6 and 1A2 . On the other hand it is an inhibitor for 2C19 2D6 2A6 and 2C9. The Ki values range from 29 to 174 M.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope. All references recited herein are incorporated herein in their entirety by specific reference.

