---

title: Method and system for providing three dimensional stereo image
abstract: The present invention provides a method for providing 3D stereo image. The method comprises: accepting a request submitted from a client system by an intermediate server system; selecting an image server based on the request and responding to the client system from the image server through a processor in the intermediate server system; requesting at least one 3D stereo image by the client system from the image server according to the response; and providing the at least one 3D stereo image to the client system by the image server system. The present invention also provides a system for providing 3D stereo image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509974&OS=09509974&RS=09509974
owner: National Applied Research Laboratory
number: 09509974
owner_city: Taipei
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20100831
---
This present application claims priority to TAIWAN Patent Application Serial Number 099111509 filed Apr. 13 2010 which is herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention is generally related to the field of the network and more specifically to a method and system for providing three dimensional 3D stereo image through the network.

During the year 2009 to 2010 the 3D stereo movie Avatar directed by James Cameron was a blockbuster around the world. The enthusiasm to the 3D stereo movie in the public is arisen. In addition to movies many electronic manufacturers announced that they are going to provide household 3D stereo displays soon. It may be anticipated that users may enjoy 3D stereo images movies not only in the movie theaters but also at her his home in the near future.

In some prior arts the 3D stereo image may be provided in several modes based on the type of displaying apparatus. For example it may be provided in the active mode the passive mode or the anaglyph mode. For active mode two images left and right viewpoints are alternately displayed in a screen. The user may wear shutter glasses to see the specific left or right viewpoints with time division way for generating the effect as watching 3D stereo images. For the passive mode the 3D stereo image may be provided by the filters separating the left right images to either eye. For the anaglyph mode the 3D stereo image may be provided from the colorized left right images. They can be chosen by the user according to her his budget and or preference. Furthermore in another prior art a displaying apparatus can generate integral photography by superimposing the multiple viewpoint images or other implementation ways such that the 3D stereo image can be watched with naked eyes.

It should be noted that whatever great 3D stereo display apparatus will become invalid without suitable 3D stereo image source. However no secure 3D stereo image provider was mentioned in the prior art. Further in the prior art users can not interact with the 3D image provider and the application such as the application in teaching and medical of the 3D stereo image is greatly reduced.

Therefore the present invention provides a method and a system for providing 3D stereo image interactively to overcome the above mentioned shortcomings and to provide unexpected results comparing to the prior art.

One purpose of the present invention is to provide a method for providing 3D stereo image for utilizing an image server system to provide 3D stereo image to a client system through the network.

Another purpose of the present invention is to provide a method for providing 3D stereo image for utilizing multiple image server systems to provide 3D stereo image to multiple client systems through the network.

Another purpose of the present invention is to provide a method for providing 3D stereo image for providing an intermediate server system between multiple image server systems and multiple client systems. Thereby the client system may acquire the 3D stereo image only if the client system is authorized with the key from the intermediate system for improving the system security of the image server system s . Further upon the management of the intermediate server system one of the multiple image server systems may be chosen to provide service for providing load balancing and not concentrating multiple client systems on a specific image server system to prevent overloading. Furthermore when some of the image server systems are out of service they may be backed up by other image server systems.

Another purpose of the present invention is to provide a method for providing 3D stereo image for providing a user interface for user s to give interaction commands through the transmission system such as the network for controlling the 3D stereo image to follow instructions such as rotating zooming in out moving adding deleting items or other manipulations. The method may enhance the application potential of the 3D stereo image in the teaching medical or other fields.

Another purpose of the present invention is to provide a method for providing 3D stereo image for providing a mobile storage medium which comprises an executable computer program product for constructing an environment of the client system. When connecting the mobile storage medium to a general purpose computer the environment and configuration for the client system may be structured automatically or semi automatically. The product facilitates the transformation of a general purpose computer into the client system.

Another purpose of the present invention is to provide a method for providing 3D stereo image for implementing procedures of fetching encoding compressing and packetizing of multiple viewpoints of an image in the image server system into a single packet for sending and implementing procedures of packet reassembling and decoding decompressing for transforming the packet back to the original multiple viewpoints of the image in the client system. Thereby the nonsynchronicity problem of image caused by narrow network bandwidth or other factors may be amended. Further because data transferred to the client system s are plotted image data not original data it improves the security problem of data leakage. In some preferred embodiments an image division module is utilized to divide the image into a plurality of segmented images. The segments may be transferred to the client system separately or together and be displayed in one or multiple synchronized 3D stereo display. In some preferred embodiments the data required to be transferred is reduced by implementing the procedures of fetching encoding compressing and packetizing the varied portion segment of the image specifically.

In one aspect of the present invention a method for providing 3D stereo image is provided. The method comprises accepting a request submitted from a client system by an intermediate server system selecting an image server system based on the request and responding to the client system regarding the image server through a processor in the intermediate system requesting at least one three dimensional stereo image by the client system from the image server system according to the response and providing the at least one three dimensional stereo image to the client system by the image server system.

In another one aspect of the present invention a method for providing 3D stereo image is provided. The method comprises accepting a request submitted from a client system by an intermediate server system selecting an image server system based on the request and responding to the client system regarding the image server system through a processor in the intermediate system requesting at least one three dimensional stereo image by the client system from the image server system according to the response providing user interface information and the at least one three dimensional stereo image to the client system by the image server system directing interaction information to the image server system from the client system and updating the three dimensional stereo image the response to the interaction information or the combinations thereof according to the interaction information by the image server system.

By referring the following description and illustration of the embodiments of the present invention and the accompanying figures the advantages and the spirit of the present invention can be better understood.

In some embodiments of the present invention a system for providing 3D stereo image or referred as multiple viewpoint image and the method of the same are provided as shown in . In the system for providing 3D stereo image comprises at least one image server system at least one intermediate system and at least one client system . In preferred embodiments a plurality of image server system a plurality of intermediate system and a plurality of client system are provided. The client system may be coupled to the image server system and the intermediate server system via the network . The network may comprise the internet the local area network LAN the virtual private network VPN or other forms of networks. The transmission system transmission medium may comprise wired and or wireless network apparatuses or can be implemented by such as TV cable telephone cable or other medium for transmitting signals. In preferred embodiments the image server system and the intermediate server system may be connected via network file system NFS network neighborhood system or others. The network between them may also comprise LAN VPN or others.

In some embodiments of the present invention the image server system is utilized to provide 3D stereo image data to the client system . shows an exemplary illustration. The image server system may comprise an image server processing unit . The image server system may also comprise an image server display card or referred as graphics card video card graphics accelerator card or others which referring to any apparatus for display which comprising a graphics processing unit GPU and a renderer . The image server system may also comprise a 3D stereo application and a graphics application programming interface graphics API module for execution. For example the graphics API module may be implemented with OpenGL or DirectX.

The 3D stereo application module may comprise or couple to a plurality of buffers for storing information of multiple viewpoint images. The renderer is utilized to render the graphic outputs provided by the 3D stereo application module . Alternatively the image server system may comprise an image server display for display the graphic output. The image server system may also comprise an image server network interface for sending receiving the commands requests or data to the intermediate server system and the client system . In the preferred embodiments the image server system may comprise a connection control module for controlling the login and the commands requests.

The image server system may comprise an image server remote connection system for the user to login. For example the image server remote connection system may be implemented by a telnet system or a secure shell SSH system. The image server system may also comprise an image server 3D stereo image fetching module and an image server remote graphics system . For example the image server 3D stereo image fetching module may be implemented with Virtual GL for fetching encoding compressing and packetizing the multiple viewpoints of image into a single packet and sending the single packet to the client system for amending the problem of nonsynchronicity existed in sending multiple viewpoints of image.

An image division module it may be but not limited to implemented by the image server 3D stereo image fetching module may be utilized to divide an image into two or more segments to facilitate encoding compressing and packetizing separately to send to the client system and display on single or multiple synchronized 3D stereo image display . In the preferred embodiments only the varied segment variation portion at least one pixel of the image is fetched encoded compressed and packetized for reducing the volume of data required to be sent. For example the image server remote graphics system may be implemented with the X window system for receiving the interaction command from the client system sending the interaction command to the 3D stereo application module and sending the user interface UI request to the client system .

The 3D stereo application module may be implemented with any application with 3D stereo output images. The image server system may further comprise a 3D stereo image database module for storing various 3D stereo images. The image server system may further comprise an image server network file system module to connect the intermediate server system through a network file system NFS or a network neighborhood system. The above mentioned modules or components may be coupled to the image server CPU and other corresponding module or component as shown in .

In some embodiments of the present invention the intermediate server system is utilized as an intermediate apparatus between the image server system and the client system for preventing the client system directly accessing the data in the image server system and thus increasing the data security. In an exemplary embodiment as shown in the intermediate server system may comprise an intermediate server CPU . The intermediate server system may also comprise a network service module which may comprise a dynamic web page module . The network service module may provide a web server for providing a web page on the internet for the client system .

For example the web page may provide the content list of the 3D stereo images and the summary of the contents provided by the image server system for the client system to comprehend. The dynamic web page module may utilize the hypertext preprocessor script PHP script the javaserver page script JSP script and or the application service provider script ASP script for receiving the request from the client system and finding the suitable image server system . The intermediate server system may further comprise an intermediate server network file system module for connecting the image server system via the image server network file system module . The intermediate server system may also comprise a connection management module for distributing the most suitable image server system for the request s from the one or more client system .

The intermediate server system may also comprise an intermediate server database module for storing various data such as the accounts the passwords the IP addresses the nicknames or others related to the image server system and or the client system . The intermediate system may also comprise an intermediate server network interface for connecting to the network .

In some embodiments of the present invention a client system is provided as shown in . The client system may comprise a client CPU a client display card a GPU a renderer a graphics API module a client remote connection system a 3D stereo image output module a client remote graphics system and the client network interface . The 3D stereo image output module may be implemented with Virtual GL for receiving the packets comprising the multiple viewpoint image. After procedures of packet reassembling and decoding decompressing the multiple viewpoint image may be sent to the 3D stereo image display . The other modules components are substantially corresponding to or similar to those in the image server system therefore without further descriptions. The client system may further comprise a web browser module a 3D stereo image display etc. to browse the web page provided by the intermediate server system store the data provided by the intermediate server system the image server system and display the 3D stereo images.

For implementing the image server system the intermediate server system and the client system shows an exemplary hardware according to the embodiments of the present invention. Hardware may comprise at least one CPU coupled via a bus to memory components input output I O device network interface display card adaptor 3D stereo image display and or other devices components. Furthermore the memory components may comprise system memory read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . The ROM may load basic input and output system BIOS . The RAM may load system software for executing the required instructions or data. More specifically the system software may comprise operating system OS . The RAM may store the required instructions and or data for the CPU to execute.

The memory components may further comprise the primary storage device and the secondary storage device . The OS and the application may also be stored in the primary storage device and the secondary storage device . The memory components may comprise cache memory for reducing the access times access frequency of the CPU . The cache memory may comprise but not limited to static random access memory SRAM . The primary storage device and the secondary storage device may comprise hard disk drive and or optic disk drive for providing storage medium to store computer executable instructions for the CPU to execute the various procedures according to the embodiments of the present invention. The 3D stereo image display may comprise various active passive anaglyph and or integral photography modes 3D stereo image display devices. Dual projecting devices and or stereo glasses such as shutter or polarization types may be required for specific mode.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method for providing 3D stereo image for providing at least one intermediate server system between several image server systems and several client systems . The client system may acquire the 3D stereo image only if the client system can acquire the key from the intermediate server system for providing an improved data security. Further upon the managements of the intermediate server system one of the multiple image server systems may be chosen to provide service. The services for the multiple client systems may not concentrate on a specific image server system and thus a bad quality caused by overloading may be prevented. When some of the image server systems are out of control the other image server systems can handle the requests from the clients instantly.

For achieving the above purpose a multiple handshaking mechanism is provided according to the embodiments of the present invention as shown in . The client system utilizes the web browser module to send request a to the intermediate server system via hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . The intermediate server system utilizes the network service module to receive the request a and utilizes the dynamic web page module to send a check command a to the image server system via the NFS or the neighborhood system. The image server system utilizes the connection control module to answer a response a to the intermediate server system .

The intermediate server system acquires the status of the image server system based on the response a utilizes the connection management module to select a specific image server system for example the image server system with lower loading and sends first distribution command a and second distribution command a to the client system and the image server system respectively. The first distribution command a notifies the client system of for example the key the IP address the nickname the port number and or other information of the selected image server system . The second distribution command a notifies the selected image server system of for example the key information. Consequently the client system may utilize the client remote connection system to send an image request a to the image server system according to the first distribution command a such as the key information .

The image server system may utilize the image server remote connection system to receive the image request a and utilize the connection control module to check the image request a. If the check procedure is passed the image server system may utilize the image server 3D stereo image fetching module the image server mote graphics system and the 3D stereo application module to send the data a comprising the specified image and the related UI to the client system .

In some embodiments of the present invention the image server interaction system comprises an interaction command receiver a 3D stereo image application module coupled to the interaction command receiver a UI request sender coupled to the 3D stereo image application module an image fetcher coupled to the 3D stereo image application module an image encoder compressor coupled to the image fetcher an image packetizer coupled to the image encoder compressor a segment fetcher coupled to the 3D stereo image application module a segment encoder compressor coupled to the segment fetcher a segment packetizer coupled to the segment encoder compressor .

The client interaction system comprises an interaction command generator an interaction command sender coupled to the interaction command generator for sending commands to the interaction command receiver via the network a UI request receiver for receiving the commands from the UI request sender of the image server interaction system a UI renderer coupled to the UI request receiver an image packet reassembler for receiving data from the image packetizer of the image server interaction system an image decoder decompressor coupled to the image packet reassembler an image sender coupled to the image decoder decompressor a segment packet reassembler for receiving data from the segment packetizer of the image server interaction system a segment decoder decompressor coupled to the segment packet reassembler a segment sender coupled to the segment decoder decompressor and at least one 3D stereo image display coupled to the UI renderer the image sender and the segment sender . In preferred embodiments a plurality of 3D stereo image display may be utilized to provide a television wall display mode. The 3D stereo image display may comprise the 3D stereo interface devices such as the display card and the connection ports for connecting displays.

As shown in the client interaction system utilizes the interaction command generator such as keyboard mouse joystick microphone touch panel or others to generate an interaction command b and send it to the interaction command sender . The interaction command sender may comprise an encoder compressor and a packetizer for generating an encoded compressed and packetized interaction command packet b and sending it to the interaction command receiver of the image server interaction system .

The interaction command receiver may comprise a decoder decompressor and a packet reassembler for receiving the packet b generating a reassembled packet and decoded decompressed interaction command b and send the interaction command b to the 3D stereo image application module . For example under the X window environment the socket in TCP IP may be utilized to send the data to the OS such as the Linux OS for packetizing and sending. Consequently the 3D stereo image application module provides a UI request b to the UI request sender . The UI request sender may comprise an encoder and a transmitter for generating an encoded UI request b according to the UI request b and sending the encoded UI request b to the UI request receiver of the client interaction system . The UI request receiver may comprise a receiver and a decoder for receiving the encoded UI request b generating a decoded UI request b and sending the decoded UI request b to the UI renderer . UI renderer renders a UI information b according to the decoded UI request b and provides the UI information b to the 3D stereo image display for displaying.

When receiving the command b the 3D stereo image application module proceeds with the computation assigned by the client system according to the command b. The graphics API module stores the 3D stereo image multiple viewpoint image generated from the computation into a plurality of buffers respectively to be fetched by the image fetcher . The 3D stereo image application module also generates the UI request b to the UI request sender . The UI request b comprises required information for update. For example when the size of the viewing window is changed the UI request b may comprise the length and width information of the viewing window and the related coordinates therein. For example when some checkbox is clicked the UI request b may comprise the information related to the clicked checkbox. In some embodiments the X window system is utilized and the UI request b may be implemented by X window request.

In another aspect the 3D stereo image application module may generate an image data b according to the interaction command b. The image fetcher may fetch the image data b generate a fetched image data b and provide the fetched image data b to the image encoder compressor . The image encoder compressor may encode compress the fetched image data b generate an encoded compressed image data b and provide the encoded compressed image data b to the image packetizer . The image packetizer may packetize the encoded compressed image data b generate a packetized image data b and provide the packetized image data b to the image packet reassembler of the client interaction system via the network. The image packet reassembler may reassemble the packetized image data b generate a reassembled image data packet b and provide the reassembled image packet data b to the image decoder decompressor .

The image decoder decompressor may decode decompress the reassembled image data packet b generate a decoded decompressed image data b and send the decoded decompressed image data b to the 3D stereo image display through the image sender . Consequently one advantage of the present invention is to provide a method for providing 3D stereo image. The method may apply procedures of fetching encoding compressing and packetizing to the multiple viewpoints in at the image server interaction system for generating a single packet.

The method may also apply procedures of reassembling packet decoding decompressing to transform the single packet to the original multiple viewpoints. Thus the nonsynchronicity problem of image caused by narrow network bandwidth or other factors may be improved. Further because all of the image data transferred to the client system s are the plotted images provided by the 3D stereo image application module but not original 3D image data it may improve the security problem of data leakage. For the display of the 3D stereo image commercial display cards which provide 3D stereo image displaying functionality such as Nvidia Quardro display cards may be applied. For the 3D stereo image application module it may apply but not limited to commercial software product such as Avizo software product of Visualization Science Group or other software modified upon the existed software.

Furthermore in the preferred embodiments it may only apply the procedures of fetching encoding compressing and packetizing to the variation segment such as the variation portion among any two frames in a video stream for reducing the data required to be transferred. For example in some embodiments the segment fetcher may comprise at least one temporary history module. The temporary history module may compare the variation among the different images in a video stream. In preferred embodiments the segment fetcher may fetch only the variation segment variation portion after comparing the images. The segment fetcher may provide the variation segment together with the required information such as the coordinates of the varied pixels to the segment encoder compressor . The segment sender may update the segment displayed on the 3D stereo image display according to the segment data b . Some other procedures are similar to the procedures mentioned above and they are neglected for brevity.

In some specific embodiments the system and the method for providing 3D stereo image may provide 3D stereo image of the or fruit fly brain and its internal nerve structures with an interactive user interface as shown in . The features of the present invention may be better observed in . Upon the assignment of the user the image server interaction system may alternatively provide or not provide the images of such as neuron and or neuropil. The different classes of images may be shown with different colors to provide better identification. The user may utilize the mouse or other devices to submit an interaction request to ask for a rotation of the brain image along the various rotation axes. The brain image may also be zoomed in for an amplified detail.

In the preferred embodiments a mobile system and the method thereof are provided for lowering the difficulty of constructing the environment of a client system . The user may utilize a USB storage device or mobile hard disk drive a CD DVD Blue Ray disk or other devices which store a computer program product for constructing an environment for the client system to boot a computer. When the network configuration is completed by the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP server automatically or by manual configuring the user may use the web browser to connect to the server the image server system and or the intermediate server system as mentioned above to ask for 3D stereo images.

For the user the required procedure may substantially be the network configuration. For example the mobile system may be implemented by a computer software product which is stored in a computer readable medium. In the preferred embodiments the computer readable medium may be USB storage device. The mobile system may comprise OS network module web browser module plug in module driver for hardware such as display card key for network etc. For example the mobile system may provide an OS such as the Linux OS and the related drivers. The mobile system may utilize the Firefox web browser and the related program instead of using the original programs installed in this computer. In some embodiments when the user plug the storage medium into the computer the environment for the client system may be setting up instantly for the user to use. For example the mobile system may be implemented as a Linux live system such as the Ubuntu live system or the Knoppix Linux system. The technical details may refer to Live USB Live CD List of Live CDs and Knoppix Linux in WIKIPEDIA. Knoppix hacks 100 industrial strength tips tools OREILLY 2005 may also be a reference. It is intended to incorporate these references into the embodiments.

In some embodiments of the present invention the method for providing 3D stereo image may be implemented by a computer readable storage medium which comprises computer executable instructions. When an apparatus such as a programmable processor reads the instructions the method may be implemented.

In some embodiments of the present invention the method for providing 3D stereo image may be implemented by a computer software product which is stored on a computer readable storage medium. When an apparatus such as a programmable processor reads the instructions of the computer software product the method may be implemented.

The above descriptions are the preferred embodiments of the present invention. They are intended to explain the present invention but not to limit the range of the present invention. For brevity some well known components of steps may not be illustrated. The range of the present invention should base upon the claims and their equivalences.

