---

title: Remote phone manager
abstract: According to certain aspects, the invention allows a person to manage some of the functions of a cell phone without having to actually have the phone in her hands. For example, the invention allows the user to know of the incoming call and further allows the user to send a user-specified message to the caller and/or otherwise manage how the call should be handled through a remote device. In certain embodiments, the invention is comprised of: a decorative watch-like or bracelet-like case; a decorative wrist band; a vibrating incoming call indicator; a partial or full face display; touch screen input capability, accelerometer for wrist flick input capability, and/or side buttons for user inputs; a Bluetooth antenna; a Bluetooth transmitter and receiver; a rechargeable battery; a connector or wireless charging element; a display/general purpose control unit with firmware; and standard Bluetooth link and application software on an associated cellular phone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09620001&OS=09620001&RS=09620001
owner: PRUNOLO, INC.
number: 09620001
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100907
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Prov. Appln. No. 61 239 899 filed Sep. 4 2009 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The disclosed invention relates generally to an accessory for the cellular phone user. More specifically the invention is a remote phone manager to be worn as an accessory and to manage a user s incoming calls and incoming text messages.

Cellular phone use has become ubiquitous in the US and Europe. Use in developing nations is also exceptionally high. This is due the great utility of modern cell phones. They have improved greatly in size weight and battery life while adding desirable features such as cameras data storage audio playback video playback text messaging and Internet access.

There came a point where cellular phones diminished in size such that they were too small for comfortable use of all the new features. Due to increased text use larger or even full keyboards became desirable. Many users also wanted larger displays to better view pictures and video clips. These additional media uses put more energy demand on the battery. Thus to maintain required talk standby time phone manufactures have not been able to keep shrinking battery sizes and in fact battery sizes have increased especially in smart phones. Accordingly contrary to previous trends many types of cellular phones are trending toward getting bigger.

The result of the slight increases in cell phone size has been to derail the trend towards a more fashion friendly phone format such as a pendant or a wrist watch format although some wrist watch phones such as those inspired by the Dick Tracy comic book have been proposed . It may still be possible to create a very basic phone in those formats. However many consumers do not to give up the modern features. As a result at least for many people the cellular telephone remains an item that is not always held pocketed or kept close. This creates a problem for example when women in that their cell phone is in a purse and or not available for immediate access in many situations such as when dining out or moving about within a relatively confined area such as when at home. A frequent occurrence for many people men or women is that their phone will ring while they are driving and they can t get to their phone before it goes to voice mail. Another common experience is that a personal phone will be at an employee s desk while he she is consulting with someone a couple of cubicles away he she gets a call that he she never hears and doesn t know about until he she checks his her phone maybe hours later. Similar problems can occur when for example a phone is left in a backpack or briefcase or is otherwise not out of reach or when a person is in a meeting and has the phone silenced or put away.

Therefore there is a real need for a device that would provide users with the ability to have cellular phone ease of use even when the phone is not readily accessible.

According to certain aspects the invention allows a person to manage some of the functions of a cell phone without having to actually have the phone in his her hands. For example the invention provides a solution for the purse effect if a cell phone rings while buried in a purse or backpack the user might not hear the ring and or might need extra time to get to the phone to answer it. In such a situation important calls might go unanswered until much later or might get transferred to voice mail just a few seconds before the user can pick up the call. The invention allows the user to know of the incoming call and further allows the user to send a user specified message to the caller for example the invention might instruct the phone to go off hook and then play a message that says Please don t hang up. I ll be with you in a moment. 

In certain embodiments the invention is comprised of a decorative watch like or bracelet like case a decorative wrist band a vibrating incoming call indicator a display that partially or fully occupies the face of the decorative case touch screen input capability accelerometer for wrist flick input capability and or side buttons for user inputs a Bluetooth antenna a Bluetooth transmitter and receiver a rechargeable battery a battery charging element that can be hard wired or wireless a display general purpose control unit with firmware and standard Bluetooth link and application software on an associated cellular phone.

According to certain aspects the application software on the phone in some embodiments is standard such as using the Bluetooth hands free profile or headset profile to achieve some of the functions of the invention. In other embodiments the application software is custom written and installed on the phone to eliminate dependence on the vagaries of how the standard profiles are embodied on different models of phone.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings which are provided as illustrative examples of the invention so as to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Notably the figures and examples below are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention to a single embodiment but other embodiments are possible by way of interchange of some or all of the described or illustrated elements. Moreover where certain elements of the present invention can be partially or fully implemented using known components only those portions of such known components that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention will be described and detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components will be omitted so as not to obscure the invention. Embodiments described as being implemented in software should not be limited thereto but can include embodiments implemented in hardware or combinations of software and hardware and vice versa as will be apparent to those skilled in the art unless otherwise specified herein. In the present specification an embodiment showing a singular component should not be considered limiting rather the invention is intended to encompass other embodiments including a plurality of the same component and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise herein. Moreover applicants do not intend for any term in the specification or claims to be ascribed an uncommon or special meaning unless explicitly set forth as such. Further the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the known components referred to herein by way of illustration.

According to certain embodiments of the invention a device in the form of a personal accessory such as a watch bracelet or pendant is provided that enables persons to manage calls and messages associated with a phone such as a cell phone. For example when a call is made to the phone information about the call such as the phone number of the caller the name of the caller or the time date of the call can be displayed to the user and the invention presents options to the user for managing the call e.g. answer send to voice mail send a hold message etc. . The call message management aspects of the device can be configured and or customized for the user using software on a computing device such as a personal computer that can communicate with the device and perhaps also a publicly accessible server such as a web site with downloadable management software and or content. In another embodiment the device can be configured using software installed in the user s cell phone.

According to certain aspects the invention allows a person to manage some or all of the call message management functions of a cell phone without having to actually have the phone in her hands. In one non limiting use example the invention provides a solution for the purse effect if a cell phone rings while buried in a purse or backpack the user might not hear the ring and or might need extra time to get to the phone to answer it. In such a situation important calls might go unanswered until much later or might get transferred to voice mail just a few seconds before the user can pick up the call. The invention allows the user to know of the incoming call and further allows the user to send a user specified message to the caller for example the invention might instruct the phone to go off hook and then play a message that says Please don t hang up. I ll be with you in a moment. Additional features and functions of the invention will become apparent from the descriptions below. In general however an aspect of the invention is the ability to respond to phone events primarily incoming calls and text messages in situations where the user can t get to the phone or shouldn t talk on the phone.

As shown the system includes a remote phone management device in this example having a form factor similar to a wrist watch a phone that device communicates with for call message management a computer that communicates with device to provide configuration and or customization and also communicates with a content server via the Internet for example.

In some embodiments the connection between computer and device includes USB that allows for provisioning of device via computer including loading operating parameters that can change the user interface UI and can change the modes of operation of the device. USB can also be used to charge a battery in device as well as provide firmware updates to device . It should be noted that there can be other means of provisioning the device besides USB. Provisioning could be done via any wired or wireless connection that can transmit data. Moreover battery charging can be done by any standard means that are well known in the art as well as other means described in more detail below.

In some embodiments the connection between phone and device includes Bluetooth although many other standard or non standard proprietary protocols are possible such as Zigbee Wireless USB UWB or Bluetooth LE. In general operation phone sends notification of events such as an incoming call to device . Device sends commands and data for managing such events.

Computer can download set up software from server . Such set up software can include functionality to provision device download firmware upgrades perform system resets etc. If computer has a microphone or headset a user can record custom sound files without using phone . Additionally or alternatively a user can record custom sound files by dialing a special number using phone and then speaking into the phone. Messages can then be stored on server . As will become more apparent from the descriptions below server can be the source of the latest version of the set up software. It can also be the source of any firmware upgrades and any new releases of the phone apps. It can also be the repository or library of fonts icons pre recorded messages e.g. in celebrity voices pre canned text responses and other data that can be used to provision device .

When the user uses the phone to record new audio files by calling a special number the audio files must be uploaded to the server first when there is no direct link between the user s phone and the PC . The files are then downloaded later from server to the user s PC . Additionally or alternatively it is possible to have a set up app that resides on the user s phone . With this app the user can set the provisioning data including recording audio files on the phone then provision device directly using a Bluetooth connection or any other data link that can be made between phone and device .

Phone is a cellular phone or any other similar type of mobile phone e.g. satellite phone . It can be a smart phone e.g. iPhone Android Blackberry etc. or it can be a basic feature phone for example. Some of the inventions of the device can be implemented using Bluetooth headset and or hands free profiles or the phone can be adapted to operate with device as described in more detail below.

Computer is a laptop desktop notebook and or notepad computer such as those developed for use with Windows Apple OS Linux and other operating systems and preferably having Internet connectivity e.g. a web browser and USB capability. Or it can be any computing device capable of setting up the provisioning data for the invention and then downloading the provisioning data to the invention.

Device can be implemented in many ways and in various form factors including in a form factor similar to a wrist watch. A general aspect is that it is comfortable to wear or carry and readily accessible for use. In some embodiments the face of the watch is a color display with a touch pad overlaying the display. It should be noted that device is not necessarily a standalone device. For example one or more elements of device could be incorporated in other personal devices such as an MP3 music player.

Server is a server that preferably is publicly accessible via the Internet and an associated web server. It preferably includes databases for firmware upgrades for device new apps for phone device provisioning e.g. icons messages audio files etc. as mentioned above. In other embodiments server is any network attached storage device with some management software that allows it to manage the storage of and access to the items stored on the server. Other aspects and features of server will become apparent from the following descriptions regarding use and configuration of device .

It should be noted that the invention can be practiced with fewer or more components than shown in . For example it is not necessary to have a computer and or server in some embodiments. Moreover phone can communicate with other devices such as other Bluetooth devices e.g. Bluetooth headset .

As shown in device includes a phone communications manager and a PC communication manager that manages communications with a phone among other things and PC respectively. An event manager responds to events reported by phone communications manager and or peripherals manager e.g. incoming call with responses and commands e.g. send call to voice mail .

To manage responses to events event manager accesses information in configurations icons and audio . Configurations stores default and or customized settings for interacting with users to determine how to respond to events. Icons stores default and or customized text icons GUI images etc. to be displayed to a user in connection with managing events. Audio files stores default and or customized audio files for use in managing events e.g. personalized greeting when a call is received . It should be noted that in a preferred embodiment the provisioning data are stored in the device . But in other embodiments some of the provisioning or all of the data can be stored in the phone . The most likely candidates to be stored in the phone are the audio files and the custom text messages.

Event manager also communicates with one or more hardware components in device perhaps via peripherals manager such as vibrator buzzer display input e.g. transparent touchpad overlaying display or buttons switches and accelerometer . In general event manager communicates with these components perhaps via peripherals manager to manage a user interface for interacting with a user to manage events as will be described in more detail below.

In one example display has an active area of about 20 20 mm 0.8 0.8 . In another example display has an active area of about 26 20 mm 1 0.8 . In embodiments an OLED is used for the display. In other embodiments a backlit LCD is used. Many variations of display technologies sizes designs styles and features are possible while remaining within the spirit of the invention.

In some embodiments the default display presented on display resembles a traditional watch face. Device can get the time and date from the phone and display it in a display similar to an analog or digital watch. There is also preferably an option for setting time and date manually for example if the device is not paired with a phone .

As set forth above one aspect of the invention is to allow remote phone management when a user is busy at a meeting or driving or carrying a baby and groceries etc. and or is preoccupied. Accordingly the user interface UI for the device managed by event manager preferably requires the least possible action and the least possible thought by the user. The possibility of the user initiating an unintended action is further preferably minimized. In embodiments event manager manages a flick click user interface. For example the user can flick her wrist or swipe the display to flip through a sequence of options that the user can select to trigger actions that are applicable to the current state. The user can then click i.e. tap on the display to select the currently displayed option. In other embodiments there can be one or more pushbuttons on the phone for click input alternatively or in addition to tapping the display or for performing other user inputs. Various other alternative input methods to the accelerometer and the touchpad should become apparent to those skilled in the art after being taught by the present invention including but not limited to scroll buttons somewhere on the body of the device voice input etc.

Accordingly in a preferred embodiment event manager communicates with accelerometer to detect wrist motion and process it as user input. For example the accelerometer can detect a wrist flick which is used by event manager to output to the display a sequence options that are presented to the user. Another use of accelerometer data is to provide 3D displays. In other words event manager can change the appearance of the display as the user moves her wrist giving a 3D or parallax appearance to the displays with some images appearing to be in the foreground and some appearing to be in the background or with images on the display appearing to rotate or present different aspects or surfaces to the user in response to movements of the device. Communications with accelerometer via peripherals manager can also include information regarding movement of device for example to transition to a wake state from a sleep state of device which information can be further relayed to event manager . For example event manager can look for a specific acceleration signature such as a wrist flick to trigger a wake up. Those skilled in the art will understand how to implement detection of an acceleration signature from accelerometer data associated with movement such as a wrist flick when the device is worn on the wrist or similar predetermined types of movement e.g. hand held shake .

In general event manager presents text and or icons on display using data from store to inform the user of the current state or option for the user to select.

Event manager communicates with vibrator to notify the user of an event that requires user action or input. In one possible example a simple pulse is used. In another possible example the vibrator starts slowly and ramps up until the user responds. It should be noted that in this embodiment there are no audible indications to the user i.e. no speakers or beepers. However audible indications are possible in other embodiments.

In embodiments event manager also communicates with peripherals manager and or phone communications manager to receive Bluetooth RSSI information. This can be used to warn the user if she might be losing her phone. If signal strength from the phone drops below a threshold then event manager can cause the vibrator and or display a message to warn the user that she might be losing her phone. As appreciated by those skilled in the art Bluetooth has sophisticated protocols for managing signal strength. In some example implementations after the user gets the Leaving Phone Behind warning she has at least the following options Make the phone ring the default option to help the user find the phone ignore weak BT signal for a default period of time or for a period of time that the user specifies.

Depending on the action selected by the user and to get information regarding an incoming call and or message event manager interacts with peripherals manager and or phone communications manager to handle a call or message. When the communication protocol is Bluetooth this can be done with many existing Bluetooth functions such as those included in the Bluetooth hands free profile headset profile serial port profile etc. For example to play a message that asks a caller to hold briefly until the user can get to the phone event manager phone communications manager and or peripherals manager can use Bluetooth profiles to take the phone off hook and then play an audio file e.g. Please hold I ll be right there through the microphone channel supported by the hands free profile. Those skilled in the art will recognize how to implement the features and functionalities of the invention by adapting well known Bluetooth and other similar protocols after being taught by the present disclosure.

Although those skilled in the art of Bluetooth protocols and profiles will be adequately taught by the present disclosure it should be noted that the present invention uses the standard hands free or headset profile in new and useful ways. Those profiles are designed to take analog audio files from a microphone and send them to the phone and thence to the calling party. In one embodiment of the device according to the invention there will be no microphone. The audio files are pre recorded and stored in digital format. When it is necessary to play an audio file to the calling party a SCO channel is opened which is the channel that audio from the microphone is sent to and the device sends the audio files directly to the SCO. This can be done in various ways. One is to convert the digital audio files to analog and inject the analog files into the SCO channel which then converts them back to digital in a format that is standard to BT. This is route is simple but is processor intensive. Some Bluetooth chips provide the ability to send the digitized audio file directly to the chip without going through back to back D to A and then A to D conversions. There are several ways of doing the direct digital transmission of audio files as will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

As shown PC communication manager communicates with configuration manager i.e. Provisioning Manager . For example configuration provisioning manager receives communications from PC regarding default and or customized settings to store in configurations icons and audio . Audio files can be in any standard digitized audio file format there are hundreds of known standards. MP3 in some embodiments. WAV is another alternative. Icons and images can be in many different file formats bitmap JPG TIFF etc. The pre canned text messages will be in ASCII standard formats using the ASCII standard for the language in which the device is localized. Other provisioning data will be in text and or custom instruction formats. In embodiments data for configurations icons and audio are stored in Flash or EEPROM or SRAM. Preferred storage location is non volatile memory.

In embodiments of the invention the user can configure some or all of the following UI features select the set of options responses to incoming calls that will be presented to the user select the icon associated with each option e.g. associating downloaded icons images with specific responses to incoming calls select text that will be displayed with each icon as reminder of the icon s function select the order in which the icons are displayed record custom audio messages associated with the options that play a message and prepare custom text messages that can be sent using the text response feature. Additionally the user preferably can choose to have the display show icons images only or text only or both icons and text. In some embodiments the user can select whether the time is displayed in analog or digital formats and can select or change the appearance of the time and date displays. For example the user can change the background color or image the color and style of fonts the style of the watch hands etc.

In the embodiment illustrated in the user customizes the UI using personal computer using set up software i.e. provisioning software running on PC . The customizations are then communicated to device using a USB connection e.g. USB Type A connector on PC and mini or micro USB or other standard or custom USB connector on device . PC communication manager handles the configuration communications with PC and relays them to configuration manager which handles updates to stores data in locations and as appropriate.

It should be noted that certain or all of the above configurations can additionally or alternatively be made using an application running on phone e.g. using a mobile version of the application for PC that is installed on the phone . It should be further noted that configurations can be communicated from either PC or phone using other means besides USB connections for example using Bluetooth. In general it should be possible to use any communication channel that allows transmission of data. There are existing alternatives to USB or Bluetooth such as RS 232 or Ethernet or FireWire for wired connections . However other existing and future alternatives are possible and could be used with the invention. For example when Bluetooth LE starts gaining critical mass in the market it will replace the current Bluetooth as the dominant wireless protocol between cell phones and accessories. Alternative wireless connections could be Zigbee which no current phones use but which is the basis of Bluetooth LE or future wireless communication protocols that might become standard in cell phones.

It should be noted that device also preferably supports firmware upgrades for example done over the same USB connection used for configurations with power coming from the host computer USB port to assure that there is not a loss of battery power during a firmware install. Another possible means of firmware upgrades is via a wireless link such as Bluetooth from either the PC or the phone or some other computing device capable of downloading firmware. Additionally an application running on phone could provide an API application programming interface so that other applications running on could use as a remote input and output device.

As further shown device includes battery manager that is coupled to communicate with battery and peripherals manager . Communications with battery can include information regarding battery charge state which information can also be related to event manager . For example event manager can notify a user of low battery state and force the device into low power mode if the battery charge drops below a certain threshold.

As mentioned above in connection with in some embodiments a conventional phone or other device is adapted for operation in accordance with the invention.

A functional block diagram of a phone adapted for use in accordance with the invention is provided in .

As shown in phone includes an operating system a remote interface manager supported profiles Serial Port Protocol SPP protocol and interface communication manager . In embodiments operating system supported profiles and interface communication manager are native elements of phone . For example where phone is a device such as an iPhone operating system is the iPhone OS interface communication manager is a native Bluetooth interface and supported profiles are Bluetooth profiles supported by the iPhone. Technical details and specifications regarding Bluetooth profiles that can be adapted and or used in accordance with the invention such as the Hands Free Profile the Headset Profile and the Serial Port Profile can be found at www.bluetooth.org. Those skilled in the art will understand how to user or adapt such profiles for use with the invention after being taught by the present disclosure.

SPP protocol includes profiles for communicating with device that are not supported by a native phone . In this regard it should be noted that every model of phone has a different set of Bluetooth profiles that it supports. And it s very common for phone manufacturers to modify the Bluetooth standard profiles to fit their needs or requirements. For example a phone may be advertised as supporting the HFP but it may only support a subset of the features of the HFP. And one manufacturer might use different implementations of the HFP or other profiles in different models of phones that they make. This is where a phone app according to the invention i.e. remote interface manager comes in.

In some embodiments the invention makes use of as many features as possible that are native to each model of phone and to develop a phone app for each model that enables features of the invention that aren t supported by native software in the phone. This approach minimizes the size of each Phone App and the development effort to write the Phone App.

In other embodiments Phone Apps are provided that do everything and don t utilize any of the native software or profiles in the phone. This approach reduces the risk of phone manufacturers releasing software upgrades that change how they implement Bluetooth communications which could render some of features non functional until a software update can be released. But it requires a bigger Phone App and more development effort.

A preferred embodiment can take a middle path. This embodiment relies on subsets of the standard profiles mainly HFP that are implemented on a nearly universal basis. This reduces exposure to adverse effects of software updates to the phone OS. The Phone App will likely be not too big and not too small.

In this regard it should be noted that SPP profile is illustrated in because it provides a convenient standard profile to send data back and forth via Bluetooth. In some respects it provides the least common denominator for Bluetooth communications. And instructions or data that don t fit into the other profiles mainly HFP or HSP secondarily PBAP which is Phone Book Access Profile will probably be sent using SPP. Custom communication protocol s could also be developed but since SPP is cheap and nearly universal it is possible to use that for any communications that aren t handed by the other higher level profiles.

Remote interface manager is an application i.e. Phone App that may be downloaded onto phone and includes functionality that is necessary for allowing phone to support the call and event management operations of device . For example it includes support for any functions or features of the invention device that are not supported by profiles and software native to the phone. Some examples are sending text messages between phone and device or using the called ID to look up names in the phone s address book. Some phones support the PBAP but many don t in which case the remote interface manager can be used to look up names on those phones. It is also possible to use the remote interface manager to capture alarms and calendar event notifications from the phone and send them to the device . In a preferred embodiment remote interface manager is a software application that can be downloaded to phone in a variety of conventional ways known for downloading applications to cellular phones such as iPhone and Android apps. For example the download can be done via existing and or publicly accessible websites such the iPhone store or the Android store or the Blackberry store etc. as is well understood by those skilled in the art.

Operational and functional aspects of the invention will now be described with reference to some example embodiments such as those illustrated in .

As mentioned above one important function of the invention is to allow the user to manage incoming calls via device worn on the wrist in some example embodiments. For example when there is an incoming call the phone sends an incoming call signal via Bluetooth to device . The device will then vibrate or use some other signaling method to notify the user that there is an incoming call. The device displays the name of the caller if available or else the device displays the number of the incoming call. If the number of the incoming call is not available the display reads Private Number or Number Unavailable . The user can then decide how to manage the incoming call. In embodiments the user can take the following actions in response to an incoming call.

One action the user can take is to select the Please Hold On option. In this option device sends a command to phone to go off hook answer the call and device then plays a prerecorded message such as This is name . I ll be on the call in just a moment. Please don t hang up. A possible feature is to have the caller hear music or some other audio while the user is looking for her phone i.e. not have the line go silent after the outgoing message. When the user finds her phone she can then push the Talk or similar button to transfer the call to the phone and talk normally.

Another action the user can take is to select the I ll Call You Back option. In this option device causes the phone to answer the call and play a pre recorded message to the caller such as I m busy now. I ll call you back as soon as possible and then hang up. When this option is selected the caller cannot leave a voice mail message. This is a diverted call. In embodiments the user can record and select from more than one I ll call you back messages such as I m in a meeting or I m driving now or Hi Mom I ll call you back as soon as I can .

Another action the user can take is to select the Voice Mail option. When this option is selected device causes the call to be immediately sent to voice mail.

Another possible response to an incoming voice call is to send a text response selecting from a set of custom text messages that the user has provisioned the device with.

In addition to managing incoming calls other functions performed by device to interact with and or manage phone can include one or more of the following.

Phone finder The user can cause the device to trigger the phone to ring to assist the user in locating the phone assuming the device and phone are within Bluetooth range of one another.

Silence ringer The user can cause device display to send a command to silence the ringer of the phone . It should be noted that in other embodiments the user can be allowed to adjust ringer volume rather than just silence the ringer.

Low battery warning phone When the battery is getting low on the phone notify user by vibrating and or by a Low Battery message or indicator on the display of device .

Notification of incoming text messages When the phone receives a text message the device displays the identity of the sender and or all or a portion of the message.

Send text back The user can send a quick reply to incoming text messages via device . For example the user can flick through a sequence of canned replies and then tap on the display to send the desired reply.

 You re leaving your phone behind Use Bluetooth RSSI information to warn the user when she is leaving her phone behind. If Bluetooth signal strength drops below a specified threshold the device will warn the user.

Low battery warning device When the battery is getting low on the device notify user by vibrating and or by a message on the display. In embodiments at very low battery stage the Bluetooth radio is shut off the electronic system goes into low power mode and the display changes to time only with a black background. This will keep power consumption to a minimum. In one embodiment at critically low battery stage the device will automatically shut down.

Manage diverted calls The device keeps a list names phone numbers and time date of diverted calls. In embodiments the user can flick through the list of diverted calls and do one or more of the following Return the call by tapping on the display Delete the call record from the list and Do nothing leave the call record on the list .

Privacy mode In a business meeting the user might not want others around her to be able to see the name of the calling party. In such situations the user can turn on privacy mode and only the phone number of the incoming call is displayed.

Display company name When there is an incoming call if the company name of the calling party is available in the phone s address book in addition to or in lieu of the name of the calling party then display the name and company name in addition to or in lieu of the calling party s personal name.

Airplane Mode When the user initiates airplane mode the BT radio is turned off completely. In embodiments when the device is in airplane mode a picture of an airplane is displayed in the background of the time display as a reminder to the user that this mode is on.

Phone event notification If there are phone events such as appointment reminders or alarms the device will notify the user by vibrating and by displaying an indicator of the event e.g. could display Alarm or Appointment reminder .

The attached flowcharts will now be described in connection with certain of the functions mentioned above. Those skilled in the art will understand how to implement these and other functions after being taught by these examples.

As shown in in step S regardless of device state whenever information about an incoming call is sent from phone to device the vibrator is actuated in step S and the number and or name of the caller is displayed. When the user flicks her wrist or swipes the touchscreen processing advances to step S where the first management option is displayed. In this example the first option is to tell the caller to wait while the user looks for her phone. If this option is selected e.g. user taps the touchscreen in step S the phone is taken off hook and a Please Hold On or other similar and or customized message is played from device to phone . If the user flicks or swipes the device a next option is presented in S for example to display an I ll Call You Back icon and or text. If this option is selected processing advances to step S where the phone is taken off hook and an I ll Call You Back or other similar and or customized message is played from device to phone . Then the phone is placed on hook i.e. hang up . In embodiments the call information is added to a diverted call log. If the preceding option is skipped by the user flicking or swiping the device a next option is presented in step S. In this example a Send to Voice Mail icon and or text is displayed. If this option is selected processing advances to step S where the phone is caused to immediately send the call to voice mail. In embodiments the call information is added to a diverted call log. If the preceding option is skipped by the user flicking or swiping the device a next option is presented in step S. In this example it is possible for other user specified messages to be selected to be played before processing advances to step S. Otherwise if this option is not selected in step S the options are re presented in a loop by returning back to S. Additionally or alternatively the user can do nothing and the phone will just ring until the call goes to voice mail or the caller hangs up. Another possible option to present to the user is to silence the ringer. For example the user might be in a meeting and the phone rings the user forgot to turn off the ringer. The user could silence the ringer from the device . In a preferred embodiment if the user silences the ringer during an incoming call the device still presents options to the user to manage the call i.e. to take the call off hook and play a message etc.

It should be noted that there can be exceptions to the first step in which a device is in any state. For example if the device has established a connection for provisioning or for a firmware upgrade then it will ignore incoming call notifications. Moreover in alternative embodiments the user doesn t have to do a wrist flick or a swipe to get to the first option action. The first action can be presented to the user along with the information about whom the call is from.

In one embodiment if the user sends the call to voice mail call data will note be added to the diverted call log. This is because the caller had an opportunity to leave a voice message. And that call will be stored in the phone s call log. In this embodiment device preferably only maintains a list of calls that were truly diverted e.g. the caller was told that the user will call him her back and didn t give the caller an opportunity to leave a voice message. According to some aspects these are the critical calls to keep track of because the user promised a call back and didn t let the caller leave a message. In an alternate embodiment a record of voice mail calls could also be kept in a diverted call queue e.g. maintained by event manager in .

In embodiments event manager maintains an event queue for acting on certain events such as incoming calls and messages by queuing them and managing them according to programmable means. However in such embodiments an incoming call is a preemptive event it does not go into an event queue. In other words an incoming call is preferably presented immediately to the user regardless of whether event manager maintains an event queue. After the user selects her option for handling the call device returns to its previous state before incoming call . In embodiments if the user does not select any of the options then the call will go to voice mail by default. I.e. the phone will just keep ringing until it goes to voice mail. The option to send the call to voice mail allows the user to silence ringing and send to voice mail immediately. If the user selects no option after a threshold number of seconds then device returns its previous state before the incoming call . In this case the call will just go to voice mail by default or the caller will hang up . The sequence of options shown in this flow chart is for illustration only. In addition to or alternatively to the options mentioned above possible responses to an incoming call can include Silence Ringer some users might want to make this one of the first options that appears and Stop Calling Me .

In embodiments an additional or alternative feature is to obtain a company name of a caller from phone s address book if available and display that along with or in lieu of a caller s name for incoming calls. Moreover in addition to displaying a name or number of the caller device can display a photo or avatar the user has associated with such number or caller.

As shown in in step S regardless of device state except possibly as noted above in connection with whenever information about an incoming text message is sent from phone to device the message is put into a queue in step S. For the top or only event in the event queue processing goes immediately to step S where the vibrator is actuated and the sender ID and or first few characters of the message and or the entire message are displayed. If there are events in the event queue ahead of the present text message the text message will be processed according to the order in which it entered the queue. Processing then advances to S where functionality permits the entire contents of the message to be viewed. However in some embodiments the entire contents of the text message are not displayed on device and the entire text message is only available for viewing on the phone.

An alternative embodiment is to send the entire text message to the device . In this example several actions are allowed depending on how the user interacts with device . If the user taps on the touchscreen in step S a sequence of screens can be displayed with canned responses that can be sent in response to the message in step S. The user flicks her wrist or swipes the touchscreen to view all the possible canned responses and a tap on the touchscreen will cause the message to be sent from device to phone for responding to the sender. If the user swipes left to right on the touchscreen in step S processing advances to step S where the user is asked if the received message should be deleted. If the user swipes or taps the touchscreen the received message will slide off the display in the direction of the left or right swipe in step S and will then be deleted from the queue in step S.

There are many different ways to implement device . is a schematic block diagram of one possible implementation of device .

As shown the device includes a microcontroller e.g. a MSP430F5504 from Texas Instruments a Bluetooth Transceiver e.g. CSR BlueCore5 from CSR an OLED Display e.g. P20101 from RitDisplay with a SEPS114A Display Control IC from Syncoam a touch pad and touchpad controller e.g. MPR121 from Freescale a 3 Axis Accelerometer e.g. an ADXL345 from Analog Devices a motor vibrator a USB connector a Li On Polymer battery and battery charger e.g. a MCP34673AEP from Freescale and an antenna

As shown in microcontroller and Bluetooth transceiver include associated memories and respectively for storing data and code. In one possible non limiting example embodiment with respect to elements shown in phone communications manager is implemented by code executing on transceiver and stored in memory and can include a Bluetooth stack provided by CSR. Event manager battery manager configuration provisioning manager and PC communication manager are implemented by code executing on microcontroller and stored in memory . Configurations icons and audio are implemented as data structures in memory and managed by microcontroller .

It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that it may be possible in some embodiments for some or all of the functionality of any combination of microcontroller Bluetooth transceiver and touchpad controller to be implemented in a single chip e.g. a single controller chip or ASIC .

In embodiments a pushbutton at the location of a traditional watch stem will perform hard power on off.

As shown in battery charging is performed through USB connection. In some embodiments the watch will have a non standard USB connector and an external device. In one example the external device is implemented by a charging cradle for home use and a travel charger smaller than the charging cradle for home use with both making electrical contact with electrical contacts exposed and or provided on device . There can then be a standard USB connector on the charging cradle. A standard USB cable can be plugged into the connector to make connection with a USB port on a PC or with a power supply to charge the batteries. The travel charger will have the same functions as the charging cradle i.e. it will make a USB connection with the contacts on the back of device but it will be smaller than the charging cradle. It can be designed to clip onto the watch possibly using a spring loaded hinge mechanism. One possible design is to have the travel charger clip into the charging cradle so the user can use the charging cradle at home and can unclip the travel charger and take it with her when she travels.

As an alternative to the above described battery charging inductive charging could be used to charge the device . This implementation does not require a direct connection and therefore would not require a receptacle on the device. In embodiments inductive charging is selected to eliminate the need for a physical charging connector on the device.

In the embodiment of most or all of the components are contained in a single watch case constructed of a frame that holds all other components. A portion of the case also serves as the frame in which any buttons and the antenna are installed. The bottom of the watchcase could be constructed of ceramic or plastic rather than metal . A plastic or ceramic enclosure could extend the range of device by eliminating obstructions to the field of the antenna . In a preferred implementation device has a metal caseback the watch industry term for the bottom of the watchcase because the metal bottom plate provides a ground path to the user s body which is important for ESD protection even if every other part of the case is plastic.

In the case holding the display and all components is comprised of metal and a plastic bezel is provided on the top perimeter of the case. Metallized plating that forms a loop antenna is provided on the top of the plastic bezel. also illustrates a second possible embodiment of antenna design with an antenna embedded in a watch stem .

In with a top corresponding view in the case holding the glass display and the components is comprised of plastic and a metal wire that forms a monopole and or loop antenna is embedded in the plastic.

In other embodiments not shown in a standard chip antenna is used. For example it is possible to print a trace antenna on the PCB on which other components comprising device are mounted. Alternatively it is possible to run an antenna wire outside of the watchcase that is embedded in or part of the watch band. It is also possible to use a metalized plating for example on an upper outer surface of the watchcase as an antenna.

Although the present invention has been particularly described with reference to the preferred embodiments thereof it should be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that changes and modifications in the form and details may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is intended that the appended claims encompass such changes and modifications.

