---

title: Safe URL shortening
abstract: A safe URL shortening service creates a short URL from any valid long URL. At resolution time, the service determines if the resulting URL points to a known bad, known good, or unknown site. Depending on the determination results, the service may redirect a user to the target site, block redirection, or present a warning page that allows the user to manually activate the target link.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08381276&OS=08381276&RS=08381276
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08381276
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100823
---
Domain names are linked to IP addresses. For ease of use characters of the Latin alphabet are typically used. Some web developers tend to pass descriptive attributes in the URL to represent data hierarchies command structures transaction paths and session information. As a result very long URLs may be created making it difficult for users to type or remember. Uniform Resource Locator URL shortening is a technique on the World Wide Web in which a URL may be made substantially shorter in length. The technique involves using a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP redirect on a domain name that is short to link to a website which has a long URL. URL shortening sites have become increasingly popular enabling URLs of any length to be shortened to easy to remember type versions.

A short URL obscures the target address and as a result it may be used to redirect to an unexpected site. Thus malicious behaviors like rick rolling redirecting to scam and affiliate websites or shock sites may take advantage of this web tool. URL shortening websites may inadvertently distribute spyware. Opaqueness is also used by spammers who use such links in spam to bypass URL blacklists. It is typically impossible for a user to know from the short URL whether or not it points to a suspicious site so users can be conned into clicking malicious links.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to exclusively identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to providing safe URL shortening services. A safe URL shortening service according to embodiments may create a short URL from any valid long URL. At resolution time the service may determine if the resulting URL points to a known bad known good or unknown site. Depending on the determination results the service may redirect a user to the target site block redirection or present a warning page that allows the user to manually activate the target link.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory and do not restrict aspects as claimed.

As briefly described above safe URL shortening may be provided by merging short URL resolution and safety check of the target URL. The safety of the target URL may be determined at the moment of use. Furthermore measures like account throttling where links created by restricted users are limited to a configurable number of clicks per day may limits spread of new malicious content. In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustrations specific embodiments or examples. These aspects may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

While the embodiments will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with an application program that runs on an operating system on a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that aspects may also be implemented in combination with other program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and comparable computing devices. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Embodiments may be implemented as a computer implemented process method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program that comprises instructions for causing a computer or computing system to perform example process es . The computer readable storage medium can for example be implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable media.

Throughout this specification the term platform may be a combination of software and hardware components for providing safe URL shortening services. Examples of platforms include but are not limited to a hosted service executed over a plurality of servers an application executed on a single server and comparable systems. The term server refers to a computing device executing one or more software programs typically in a networked environment. The term client refers to a computing device or software application that provides a user access to data and other software applications through a network connection with other clients and or servers. More detail on these technologies and example operations is provided below.

In addition to the difficulty in remembering or typing long URLs many instant messaging services have total character limits for messages. Using a URL shortening service can enable users to include a URL that would not fit in its long form. While a number of techniques may be used for shortening long URLs a majority of such techniques employ a key. Long URLs are associated with a key which is the part after http domain.tld . For example http myexampleurl.com m3q2xt has a key of m3q2xt.

According to some techniques the keys may be generated numerically in base 36 assuming 26 letters and 10 numbers. The keys in order would be 0 1 2 . . . 9 a b . . . z. If uppercase and lowercase letters are accepted then the number can be in base 62 26 26 10 . Other techniques utilize a hash function which can be made or a random number generated so that key sequence is not predictable. In yet other approaches the users may propose their own keys. For example http en.myexampleurl.com w index.php title short URL diff 283621022 oldid 283308287 may be shortened to http shorturl.com testkey where testkey is provided by a user.

URL shortening is a special kind of URL redirection which may be used in spamming pranks phishing or affiliate hiding. A system according to embodiments checks the original URL for potential abuse when resolving the short URL. The system can then provide redirection services to the users preventing malicious abuse of the shortening process.

Diagram illustrates an example system. URL publishers may be any website providing a long URL. A URL publisher may be the website owner a website user or any other entity associated with a website that creates a long version of the URL e.g. one with descriptive attributes . Users are recipients of the URLs that activate the links in order to access the target website and or service. URL shortening service communicates with URL publishers and users over networks and provides users with a transformed URL short URL . In providing this service URL shortening service may perform safety check as discussed above preventing abusive sites.

The URL shortening service may also be integrated into a website and be transparent to a user. In addition to providing safety assessment of target URLs such a service may collect data on user behavior link statistics etc. for websites or maintain login information for repeat users. Safety checks may be performed through a number of methods such as websites registering with the service third party safety lists machine learning algorithms mining of collected data user feedback and comparable approaches.

Partner websites may call a safe URL Shortening service application programming interface API and create a short URL when a user posts it. An identifier associated with the user may be provided at creation. According to some embodiments the link short URL may be resolved to a block page instead of the original URL if the user identifier is on a restriction list and if the URL was resolved more than a predefined times within a preset period e.g. 10 times within last 24 hours . This configurable control also referred to as account throttling may prevent rapid spreading of malicious content.

According to other embodiments the safe URL shortening service may be integrated into websites by calling a service API and using an API key generated for each logged in user. The safe URL shortening service does not have to have its own login or password mechanism. According to further embodiments the service may be integrated with a web service login mechanism e.g. a social networking site or other online identity providers. The integration aspect may reduce entry barrier for potential users and encourage them to use the perks of the service.

A safe URL shortening service may store a limited amount of information on the short URLs created by a user while he she is logged in. Such information may include click count for each link referral URL browser type operating system time date location and the like. The amount and collection window of the information may be configurable. Furthermore users may be given an opportunity to opt in out or configure what type of information is collected about them to address privacy concerns.

Data collected by a safe URL shortening service may potentially scale up to hundreds of millions of users and billions of clicks. To mitigate the size of such large amounts of data a service according to embodiments may employ data partitioning across multiple storage nodes. The data may be partitioned by the following fields 

In such an architecture every query to a table may contain the partitioning field. URL records may contain the user hash. In order to find all users URLs a userhash urlhash table may serve as an index.

As discussed above a system according to embodiments may store and query user related information such as user s profile usage history and similar data. Part of the information may be considered private or confidential depending on context. Thus measures may be taken to protect the confidentiality of the information. For example users may be given the opportunity to opt out from having their personal information stored or used. Additionally user usage related data may be protected employing measures like associating users with anonymous identifiers password protection of the information deletion of data after prescribed periods and comparable ones.

While the example systems in through have been described with specific components and interactions embodiments are not limited to these configurations and can be implemented with other components and configurations. Furthermore embodiments are not limited to specific URL shortening or safety check mechanisms. Any shortening mechanism or safety check approach may be used for providing safe URL shortening using the principles described herein.

Users may execute any application such as web browsers on any one of the client devices and access websites through long or short URLs. The platform providing safe URL shortening services may also communicate with URL publishers such as partners executed on servers for determining safety of a website. Data associated with transformed URLs and website safety may be stored retrieved in from individual data sources such as data store directly by the platform or data sources managed by a database server such as data store managed by database server .

Network s may comprise any topology of servers clients Internet service providers and communication media. A system according to embodiments may have a static or dynamic topology. Network s may include a secure network such as an enterprise network an unsecure network such as a wireless open network or the Internet. Network s may also comprise a plurality of distinct networks. Network s provides communication between the nodes described herein. By way of example and not limitation network s may include wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Many other configurations of computing devices applications data sources and data distribution systems may be employed to implement a safe URL shortening system. Furthermore the networked environments discussed in are for illustration purposes only. Embodiments are not limited to the example applications modules or processes.

Safety check module and shortening module may be separate modules or an integrated part of URL shortening service providing transformation of long URLs into short URLs with safety check of target websites account throttling and other services discussed in more detail above enhancing user experience. This basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

Computer may have additional features or functionality. For example the computer may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer readable storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Any such computer readable storage media may be part of computer . Computer may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device and comparable input devices. Output device s such as a display speakers printer and other types of output devices may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computer may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute web applications. Communication connection s is one example of communication media. Communication media can include therein computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Example embodiments also include methods. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described in this document. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in this document.

Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program.

Process begins with optional operation where safe websites may be determined. According to some embodiments a list of safe websites may be maintained such that safety of a long URL can be certified promptly. At operation a target URL or a long URL is received. The long URL is transformed into a short URL through hashing or similar mechanisms at operation .

At operation a safety check of the URL is performed at resolution time of the short URL. This may be accomplished through a number of approaches such as checking with a third party website crawling to the long URL employing a number of machine learning algorithms etc. At operation the short URL may be provided to a user if it is a known good URL. If the target URL is a known bad URL the link may be redirected to a block site. Alternatively the user may be alerted that the original link is a known bad link or an unknown link and presented with the option to manually activate the link. Information about website usage associated with the short URLs or user information while the user is logged in may be collected at optional operation for statistical purposes or ease of use for the user. Appropriate security measures may be taken to protect privacy of users.

The operations included in process are for illustration purposes. Providing safe URL shortening may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the embodiments. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims and embodiments.

