---

title: Content distribution using embeddable widgets
abstract: A content distribution system allows authors to freely syndicate their content to content distributors in a way that ensures that the author receives appropriate credit for the impact of the content upon readers. The system provides an embeddable control that publishers can embed in a web site or other distribution channel. Authors provide the content displayed within the embeddable control and can include advertisements as well as any content restrictions. For advertisers, the system allows them to advertise with the content instead of the publisher, and allows them to do so in all of the venues that host the content. This places control of monetization of content back in the hands of the author, and incentivizes the author to maximize the distribution of his content to reach the widest possible audience rather than to hoard content at his own site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09208246&OS=09208246&RS=09208246
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09208246
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100326
---
The Internet is filled with many different types of content such as text video audio and so forth. Many sources produce content such as traditional media outlets e.g. news sites individual bloggers retail stores manufacturers of products and so forth. Some web sites aggregate information from other sites. For example using a Really Simple Syndication RSS feed a web site author can make content available for other sites or users to consume and an aggregating site can consume various RSS feeds to provide aggregated content.

The production of content is time consuming and often costs money. Internet content is monetized in various ways. For example traditional news sites may pay authors a salary to write articles just as they formerly did for newspapers and other print media. Similarly a television news station may make audiovisual content available on its website that provides clips of its television shows that are monetized via interstitial ads and or display ads on the containing page. Individual bloggers often monetize their content by hosting advertisements provided by content based advertising providers. For example a blog author may reserve a fixed size rectangle on a portion of his web site and embed an advertising provider s script or control to populate the rectangle with advertisements related to the page content upon access of the page by a reader. This model works well where the content author is displaying the content on a site under her control.

Unfortunately an author that is an excellent producer of content does not always have the best access to channels for distributing the content. Likewise distributors of content do not always have access to the best content to distribute. However authors are often concerned about how to provide content to a distributor e.g. an aggregation site in a manner that will allow the author to receive appropriate credit for the content and even to profit from the content through monetary rewards. Once an author s content is displayed on a site that is not under the control of the author the author also loses control of the advertisements and other revenue streams associated with the content. An author may not trust a distributor to provide the author with a fair share of any revenue derived from the attention and readership that the author s content garners for the distributor. An author may also not want his content shown on a particular site regardless of monetization e.g. Disney content or political videos on an explicit adult site . Thus monetizing content on the web is an ongoing concern particularly for content authors.

A content distribution system is described herein that allows authors to freely syndicate their content to content distributors in a way that ensures that the author receives appropriate credit for the impact of the content upon readers. The system provides an embeddable control that publishers can embed in a web site or other distribution channel. Authors provide the content displayed within the embeddable control and can include advertisements as well as any content restrictions. The content distribution system empowers content creators to make their content embeddable and have it support both scenarios where the embedding party is a known publisher and those where the embedding party is an unknown publisher. The former supports traditional models such as news sites and other aggregators while the latter allows content creators to freely syndicate their content to anyone. For advertisers the system allows them to advertise with the content instead of the publisher and allows them to do so in all of the venues that host the content. This places control of monetization of content back in the hands of the author and incentivizes the author to maximize the distribution of his content to reach the widest possible audience rather than to hoard content at his own site.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A content distribution system is described herein that allows authors to freely syndicate their content to content distributors in a way that ensures that the author receives appropriate credit for the impact of the content upon readers. The system provides an embeddable control that publishers can embed in a web site or other distribution channel. Authors provide the content displayed within the embeddable control and can include advertisements as well as any content restrictions e.g. who can display the control where it can be displayed how many times the content is shown and so on . The content distribution system empowers content creators to make their content embeddable and have it support both scenarios where the embedding party is a known publisher and those where the embedding party is an unknown publisher. The former supports traditional models such as news sites and other aggregators while the latter allows content creators to freely syndicate their content to anyone. For advertisers the system allows them to advertise with the content instead of the publisher and allows them to do so in all of the venues that host the content. For example whereas traditionally an aggregation site would host its own advertisements that would relate generally to the purpose of the site e.g. a computer information site might host computer sales advertisements using the content distribution system an advertiser can associate an advertisement with a particular article and display the advertisement wherever the article is displayed. This places control of monetization of content back in the hands of the author and incentivizes the author to maximize the distribution of his content to reach the widest possible audience rather than to hoard content at his own site. In addition widespread use of the system will allow readers to find the content they want by visiting fewer sites rather than having to go to the source for everything that they want to consume.

In some embodiments the content distribution system includes a widget designed for a content author or publisher to syndicate their content to known and unknown affiliates. For known affiliates the widget can be themed to look as though the widget is part of the known affiliate s site while unknown affiliates can be shown advertisements and branding. For example a content author that produces sports articles may have a contract with ESPN.com whereby the author is paid a set amount to produce content for the site on a regular basis. In this scenario ESPN.com may not wish to display and the author may agree not to display advertisements for an article from the author but the author may associate and display advertisements when the article is displayed in other scenarios e.g. when a third party picks up the article and shows it on her sports site . Thus the content distribution provides the ability for content authors to have flexibility in the way they monetize their content. The ability to monetize content regardless of the content type and regardless of the site in which it is embedded provides value to authors and publishers and may even restore traditional models such as those previously used successfully by newspapers. Using the system a news or other content based organization can either focus on becoming the premier distributor i.e. go to source for articles on a particular topic written by others or focus on gathering up good authors e.g. by paying them a salary to write articles for a distribution to a variety of sources or both.

The content distribution system provides a mechanism by which to distribute embeddable content with intelligence about the consuming site and with support of multiple monetization models. For sites that are affiliates with a business relationship in place the content may be embedded without any user experience information and may appear to be a natural part of the consuming site. For sites that are not affiliates the content may be displayed with user experience information that includes advertising branding or other information selected by the author. The content can be static content interactive content or applications.

Although the system provides a great way for advertisers to participate in the community and in conversations broadly the system also has significant potential for the newspaper industry. A columnist with a major news organization for example could syndicate his column to a website of the news organization which would get his column without user experience information and appear as part of the site while multiple other individuals could all embed the column in their sites. On those sites the content would show up with advertisements with revenue accruing back to the author or the news organization for the column content. The site owners can still make money off advertisements elsewhere on the site e.g. larger banner or sidebar advertisements .

The author interface component provides an interface between an author and the system through which the author can create content and specify settings for how the content can be consumed by one or more publishers. The author interface component may receive various content types from the author and store the content in one or more content stores . The author may also specify one or more publishers that can access the content to embed the content within the publishers own sites as well as any restrictions that apply to individual publishers or groups of publishers. Restrictions may be based on affiliate relationships between the author and publishers. An example of a restriction may include preventing the publisher from reformatting the content or providing supplemental information along with the content e.g. advertisements logos and so forth for the publisher to display with the content.

The content store is a data store that provides persistent storage for content created by the author. The content store may include a file system database storage area network SAN cloud based storage service or any other type of storage technology or combination of storage technology that allows the author to store content and publishers to retrieve content in ways allowed by the author. The content store may also comprise multiple content stores e.g. multiple content databases . For example in a broker scenario a broker provides content on behalf of partners and that broker provides an implementation of the content store used by the system .

The widget distribution component provides an interface through which publishers can request a widget that displays the author s content and any associated information. For example the widget distribution component may supply a widget to publishers in the form of an ACTIVEX control MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT application JAVASCRIPT ADOBE FLASH or other embeddable widget that the publisher can display along with other content. For example the publisher may publish a web site that aggregates articles and audiovisual content related to a particular topic and the publisher may embed the widget of one or more authors that write content related to the topic. Publishers may also provide content targeting mobile users and may distribute mobile content widgets provided by authors for displaying their content in a mobile friendly format. The widget may also be provided by a third party e.g. Microsoft or other software company and each author may create content in a format accessible by the third party widget. Web pages or other content pages can embed the widget along with parameters that specify where to access a particular author s content.

The content request component receives requests to access the author s content from one or more publishers. The publisher may request content when a user accesses the publisher s web site and requests a web page that includes embedded content from the author. The publisher may identify the requested content by a globally unique identifier GUID or other tag or identifier that distinguishes one content item from another. The publisher may also specify a generic descriptor such as a topic so that the content request retrieves the latest article on a particular topic by the author to place on the publisher s site.

The publisher identification component identifies a publisher associated with a particular content request and performs any specific handling of the request for the identified publisher. For example an author may specify publisher specific user experience information content size requirements advertisements or other restrictions or requests that affect how the content is provided to a particular publisher. When the content request component receives a new content request the component invokes the publisher identification component to determine publisher specific handling and accesses any information to accompany the content response from the content supplement component .

The content supplement component provides supplemental content associated with an author s content in response to a request from a publisher to access content for display on the publisher s site. For example the content supplement component may provide advertisements for which the author is paid to display or a logo associated with the author so that viewers of the content at the publisher s site will know where the content originated or will pay tribute to the author of the content to compensate the author for creating the content and distributing the content to the publisher. The content supplement component may invoke a third party component or website such as a third party advertisement network to retrieve supplemental content to provide in response to a request. The content supplement component or third party component may also provide tracking of where requests for content are originating so that effectiveness of particular publishers can be tracked and used for improving future relationships with the publisher.

The computing device on which the content distribution system is implemented may include a central processing unit memory input devices e.g. keyboard and pointing devices output devices e.g. display devices and storage devices e.g. disk drives or other non volatile storage media . The memory and storage devices are computer readable storage media that may be encoded with computer executable instructions e.g. software that implement or enable the system. In addition the data structures and message structures may be stored or transmitted via a data transmission medium such as a signal on a communication link. Various communication links may be used such as the Internet a local area network a wide area network a point to point dial up connection a cell phone network and so on.

Embodiments of the system may be implemented in various operating environments that include personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics e.g. set top boxes and gaming consoles digital cameras network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and so on. The computer systems may be cell phones personal digital assistants smart phones personal computers programmable consumer electronics digital cameras and so on.

The system may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Continuing in block the component optionally receives formatting options for the content from the author. For example the author may specify a size of rectangle in which the content is to be displayed font information e.g. size and text color placement relative to neighboring content e.g. stacked vertically or horizontally and so forth. The type of formatting information received may vary based on the type of content. For example for text content the formatting options may include font size and color whereas for video the formatting options may include available bitrates display rectangle size whether full screen is available and so forth. The author may specify different formatting options for different publishers allowing some publishers fewer restrictions e.g. based on a previous agreement with a publisher . Continuing in block the component receives content restrictions that specify how the content can be published. For example the author may prefer that his content not appear on offensive sites and thus may specify that sites of a particular category cannot publish the content. Other restrictions may include where the content can be placed how close neighboring advertisements of the site can be and so forth. The author may also specify advertisements or a source from which to retrieve advertisements at publishing time that supplement the content.

Continuing in block the component receives publisher specific restrictions that specify a difference in how the content can be published for at least one publisher. For example the author may include his own branding formatting and other options for some publishers but allow a publisher to theme content based on the publisher s own site for other publishers. The restrictions may specify a URL associated with the publisher a previously set identifier given to the publisher by the author or other means of identifying the publisher when the system receives a request for content. The system matches the received identifier with any identifiers associated with restrictions in the content store. The author may set different restrictions per article or based on a grouping of articles such as a category.

Continuing in block the component stores the received content and supplemental information in a content store for later retrieval by a publisher. The supplemental information may include the received formatting options content restrictions publisher specific restrictions advertisements logos and other information set by the author. Upon storing the received content the system may create a content identifier associated with the content that publishers can use to embed and refer to the content for later requests. After block these steps conclude.

Continuing in block the component identifies a content item stored in a content store that matches the requested content item. For example one or more authors may store articles or other content in a content database available from the Internet along with identifiers that identify each article. The component searches the store for a matching content item and if one is found continues with the following steps. If a matching content item is not found then the component may return an error not shown to the requesting publisher.

Continuing in block the component identifies the publisher associated with the received content request. For example the publisher may include a publisher identifier along with the request e.g. as an HTTP or other protocol header or as part of the request URL so that the system can respond appropriately for the particular publisher such as upholding any prior agreement with the publisher regarding content restrictions. The component may also automatically identify the publisher such as be examining an Internet Protocol IP address from which the request originated or other available information associated with the request. In some embodiments the content distribution system may encode a publisher identifier in a content identifier provided to the publisher for embedding the content item.

Continuing in block the component determines any restrictions associated with the identified publisher and identified content item. For example the component may access the content store to identify any content restrictions stored alongside the content item e.g. in a database table of restrictions that map to publishers and or articles . The restrictions may indicate supplemental information that will accompany the response to the content request such as advertisements that the author is paid for displaying or for obtaining clicks upon. Continuing in block the component accesses supplemental information associated with the identified content item to include with a content response. For example the component may access an advertisement from an advertisement server a logo from the content store or other source a background image for the content e.g. a watermark or other supplemental information.

Continuing in block the component sends the content response including the identified content item and accessed supplemental information to the requesting publisher. For example if the request is an HTTP GET request then the component may provide a standard HTTP response e.g. 200 OK that includes the requested content and any supplemental information that the author specifies to accompany the content. Thus the author retains control of the content can determine when how and by whom it is used and can be compensated for the content. After block these steps conclude.

In some embodiments the content distribution system populates content within an embedded widget using calls to a RESTful web service located at a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Uniform Resource Locator URL . The guidelines of the Representational State Transfer REST style of software architecture for distributed hypermedia systems specify that an application can interact with a resource by knowing only the identifier of the resource e.g. a URI and the action requested e.g. retrieval and without knowing whether there are caches proxies gateways firewalls tunnels or anything else between the application and the server actually holding the information. Following REST guidelines allows the system to benefit from existing Internet infrastructure and pre existing resource conserving techniques such as caching. Some example RESTful principles that the system implements in some embodiments include each URI identifies exactly one response each URI points to a server resource that is stateless and cacheable and each URI is intuitive and uses nouns verbs are HTTP verbs . Calls to populate a widget with content may incorporate an identifier e.g. part of the embed string that identifies the site that is embedding the content. The call to the web service returns a payload that is interpreted by the widget and determines the display and theme of the widget the display of advertising if appropriate and the rendering of content. Themes may specify threshold high and low sizes for the widget default background color background image foreground color font and so forth.

In some embodiments the content distribution system allows advertising display to be customized by the author. For example the author may specify that advertisements be placed on the top left right or bottom of the widget. In addition a secondary parameter may identify whether the advertisement should be displayed centered or to one of the two sides left or right top or bottom . The content owner can specify a flag that requests that the content provider logo be displayed with the content. As with the advertising display the positioning of this image or logo is configurable.

In some embodiments the content distribution system allows readers to resyndicate content. The widget can expose the ability for viewers of the widget to generate embed strings that allow viewers to view content on their own web sites. For example the system may display an embed string below the content or a link button to retrieve an appropriate embed string for displaying the content on the viewer s web site. A content author may provide a web site where potential syndicators can request to become affiliated with the content author so that the syndicator can display the author s content with fewer advertisements or with a customized appearance. For example the author may allow syndicators to pay a periodic fee e.g. monthly for the privilege of displaying the author s content with fewer restrictions.

The content distribution system described herein can operate in many different scenarios including on mobile devices from which users are more and more using to access content. For example a publisher of a news or other service for a mobile device may retrieve content from one or more authors using the techniques described herein and authors may receive payment for use of their content wherever the content goes. In addition advertisers may contract with the author to have advertisements accompany the content wherever the content is displayed so that advertisers can associate their products with specific content items rather than more broadly with particular publisher s sites.

In some embodiments the content distribution system may include configurable restrictions related to video in addition to others described herein. For example a content author may provide a player widget for playing video provided by the author but may allow certain publishers to access the author s content and use their own video player to play the content. It is common for sites such as YouTube to attempt to force playback in a particular player that allows for branding and other functionality e.g. subsequent videos after one video finishes to be enforced. The content author may impose similar restrictions on content through an author provided player but may also relax such restrictions for a publisher that pays to display the publisher s own branding or other functionality.

In some embodiments the content distribution system provides the ability for publishers to enforce exclusive content with publishers. For example an author and publisher may agree that the publisher will get an exclusive right to use the content for a set period of time for a particular fee. Thus the system may request identifying information from each publisher and compare that information with rights stored in one or more content stores to determine whether a particular requesting publisher has access to requested content and to provide content only to those publishers having sufficient rights. This exclusivity may be time limited. For example an author may provide his content to an affiliate exclusively for 24 hours and then after 24 hours to any publisher.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the content distribution system have been described herein for purposes of illustration but that various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

