---

title: Systems and methods for determining a reputation of at least one telephone number associated with an unclassified source
abstract: A computer-implemented method to determine a reputation of at least one telephone number associated with an unclassified source. A first device is monitored for an incoming contact originating from at least one unclassified source. When an incoming contact is detected, at least one attribute of the incoming contact is computed at the first device. The at least one attribute of the incoming contact is transmitted to a second device. A representation of the telephone number associated with the at least one unclassified source of the incoming contact is transmitted to the second device. The reputation of the telephone number is computed at the second device using the at least one attribute.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253010&OS=09253010&RS=09253010
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09253010
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101214
---
The use of computer systems and computer related technologies continues to increase at a rapid pace. This increased use of computer systems has influenced the advances made to computer related technologies. Indeed computer systems have increasingly become an integral part of the business world and the activities of individual consumers. Computer systems may be used to carry out several business industry and academic endeavors. The wide spread use of computers has been accelerated by the increased use of computer networks including the Internet.

Many businesses use one or more computer networks to communicate and share data between the various computers connected to the networks. The productivity and efficiency of employees often requires human and computer interaction. Users of computer technologies continue to demand that the efficiency of these technologies increase. Improving the efficiency of computer technologies is important to anyone who uses and relies on computers.

Computing systems may be mobile so that users may carry these systems as they travel shop work etc. Mobile computing systems may provide communication services to a user of a mobile computing system. For example a mobile computing system that provides communication services may be a cellular telephone.

Users of telephones either land line or cellular phones often receive unwanted calls and messages. For example telemarketing companies may call a telephone to attempt to sell products and or services to a consumer. Procedures to block these unwanted contacts to land line phones do not carry over and block these unwanted contacts to cellular phones or other types of mobile computing systems . As a result benefits may be realized by providing systems and methods for determining a reputation of at least one telephone number associated with an unclassified source and blocking incoming contacts at a mobile computing system based on the determined reputation of the telephone number associated with the incoming contact.

According to at least one embodiment a computer implemented method to determine a reputation of at least one telephone number associated with an unclassified source is described. A first device is monitored for an incoming contact originating from at least one unclassified source. When an incoming contact is detected at least one attribute of the incoming contact is computed at the first device. The at least one attribute of the incoming contact is transmitted to a second device. A representation of the telephone number associated with the at least one unclassified source of the incoming contact is transmitted to the second device. The reputation of the telephone number is computed at the second device using the at least one attribute.

In one embodiment the telephone number may be added to a blacklist based on the computed reputation of the telephone number. In one configuration the incoming contact may be an incoming call. In one example the incoming contact may be an incoming short message service SMS message.

In one configuration computing the at least one attribute of the incoming contact may include determining whether the incoming contact is rejected at the first device. In another embodiment computing the at least one attribute of the incoming contact may include determining when the incoming contact is not rejected a length of contact between the first device and the at least one unclassified source. In addition computing the at least one attribute of the incoming contact may include determining whether the first device has previously initiated contact with the at least one unclassified source.

In one example a second incoming contact may be received at the first device from at least one unclassified source associated with a telephone number. A determination may be made as to whether the telephone number associated with the at least one unclassified source is included on a blacklist. The second incoming contact may be blocked at the first device when the telephone number is included on the blacklist. In one embodiment the first device may be a mobile communications device. The representation of the telephone number may be one of the following the actual telephone number a hash of the telephone number or a truncated version of the telephone number.

A computing device configured to determine at least one attribute of an incoming contact originating from an unclassified source is also described. The computing device may include a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. The computing device may further include a monitoring agent configured to monitor for an incoming contact originating from at least one unclassified source. When an incoming contact is detected the monitoring agent may be configured to compute at least one attribute of the incoming contact and transmit to a second device the at least one attribute of the incoming contact. The monitoring agent may be further configured to transmit to the second device a representation of a telephone number associated with the at least one unclassified source of the incoming contact.

A computing device configured to determine a reputation for a telephone number associated with an unclassified source is also described. The computing device may include a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. The computing device may further include a reputation generating module configured to receive a representation of the telephone number associated with the unclassified source that originated an incoming contact to a second computing device and receive at least one attribute associated with the incoming contact. The reputation generating module may be further configured to compute a reputation for the telephone number using the at least one attribute associated with the incoming contact and based on the reputation add the telephone number to a blacklist. In one embodiment the reputation generating module may be further configured to detect a predetermined number of calls originating from the unclassified source and directed to a predetermined array of telephone numbers over a predetermined period of time.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

While the embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

Telemarketing has increasingly become one of the methods used by companies to directly market products and services to prospective customers. Telemarketing may include initiating an incoming call to a prospective customer s phone to solicit the customer to buy products or services. Telemarketing may include recorded sales pitches programmed to be played over the phone via automatic dialing. Telemarketing practices may be viewed by prospective customers as annoying and unwanted. For example prospective customers may receive calls from telemarketers during the dinner hour early in the morning or late in the evening. In addition telemarketing has been negatively associated with various scams and frauds such as pyramid schemes and with deceptively overpriced products and services.

In recent years the user of mobile phones i.e. cell phones has dramatically increased. In many cases consumers do not use a land line telephone and exclusively use their cell phone for communication purposes. As consumers continue to move from land line telephones to cell phones unwanted telemarketing calls scam calls and fraudulent calls will continue to be a problem for cell phone users. In many cases consumers would like to automatically have such unwanted phone calls blocked from reaching their cell phones in order to save on phone bills reduce exposure to scams save time and the like.

The present systems and methods provide a reputation based system which has both device and cloud based components. The present systems and methods may use incoming telemetry from numerous cell phones to compute a blacklist of phone numbers that should be blocked from sending an incoming call to cell phones in the future.

In one configuration communications between the communications devices and the unclassified source may occur via a network connection . In addition the communications devices may communicate with a server across the network connection . The server may be part of a service provider that provides communication services to the communications device . In one embodiment each communications device may send information about the unclassified source to the server . In one example the server may determine whether the unclassified source should be blocked or prevented from establishing contact with the communications devices .

In one example the monitoring agent may include a collection module an analysis module a transmitting module a blocking module and a generating module . In one configuration the collection module may collect or harvest representations of telephone numbers associated with each unclassified source that attempts to establish contact with the communications device via an incoming contact e.g. incoming phone call incoming text message and the like . Representations of telephone numbers may include but are not limited to the actual telephone numbers a hash of the telephone number or a truncated version of the telephone number. In one configuration the communications device may maintain a call log that includes the representation of the telephone number of each source classified or unclassified that has contacted the device . In one example the collection module may collect the representations of the telephone numbers for unclassified sources from call log application programming interfaces APIs of the communications device .

The analysis module may analyze each representation of a telephone number collected by the collection module . In particular the analysis module may determine various attributes associated with the incoming contact originating from the unclassified source . For example the analysis module may determine whether an incoming contact such as an incoming phone call was rejected by a user of the communications device . In addition if the incoming contact was not rejected the analysis module may determine the length of the contact between the unclassified source and the communications device . Further the analysis module may determine whether the user of the communications device has ever initiated contact to a source associated with a phone number collected by the collection module and if so how many times the user has initiated contact using the phone number . The analysis module may further determine country of origin information associated with the incoming contact. In other words the analysis module may determine where the incoming contact was originated. In one configuration the analysis module may determine the time of day the incoming contact was originated and sent to the communications device . In addition the analysis module may determine whether the phone number of the unclassified source that originated the incoming contact is included in an address book or other type of contacts application of the communications device .

The transmitting module may transmit the data the representation of the telephone number and attributes to the server associated with the service provider that provides communication services to the communications device . As previously stated the transmitted representation of a telephone number may be a hash of the actual telephone number or may be a truncated version of the telephone number i.e. one or more digits of the telephone number are removed to increase privacy .

In one embodiment the blocking module may access a blacklist that includes one or more phone numbers. The blocking module may block any incoming contacts that originate from sources with phone numbers included on the blacklist. In one configuration the generating module may generate a report for the user that lists the phone numbers included on the blacklist. As a result if a phone number is included on the blacklist that the user did not want blocked the user may use the report to identify the mistakenly blocked phone numbers and remove the phone numbers from the blacklist. The report may be generated weekly monthly quarterly yearly or at any time desired by the user.

In one example the server may include a reputation generating module . The reputation generating module may generate a reputation for phone numbers received from a communications device . The reputation may be generated based on one or more attributes associated with each phone number as explained above.

The reputation generating module may generate the reputation via a machine learning algorithm . In one example the machine learning algorithm may analyze attributes associated with a phone number that have been received from a communications device . Examples of these attributes as provided above may include the average contact time between a communications device and an unclassified source the age of a phone number the amount of times a particular phone number has been transmitted from a communications device and the like. In one embodiment phone numbers that are rarely dialed by users and have a short call time or a high rate of rejections may originate from unwanted sources such as telemarketers. In addition these phone numbers may be associated with scams and other fraudulent activities. Further the reputation generating module may detect a large number of calls originating from a particular unclassified source to a wide array of phone numbers over a certain period of time. Such behavior from an unclassified source may be indicative of robot dialing and may be used by the reputation generating module to identify unwanted callers. As a result the phone numbers associated with these unclassified sources may receive a certain reputation score determined by the reputation generating module .

On the other hand phone numbers that are associated with longer conversations or contact time between a communications device and an unclassified source might be identified as legitimate phone numbers. In addition phone numbers associated with outbound calls outbound text messages etc. that originate from a user s communication device might also be classified as legitimate phone numbers. As a result these phone numbers might be assigned a certain reputation score determined by the reputation generating module .

In one embodiment phone numbers with a certain reputation score may be added to a blacklist . In one example a user may manually tag a phone number to add to the blacklist . In one configuration the blacklist may be transmitted to a communications devices . In another example the blacklist may be stored in a database that is hosted by the server . In one embodiment the monitoring agent on the communications device may consult or access the blacklist and block incoming contacts to the communications device that originate from a source associated with a phone number included on the blacklist .

In one example a communications device may be monitored for incoming contacts. Examples of incoming contacts may include an incoming telephone call an incoming text message and the like. A determination may be made as to whether an incoming contact is detected. If it is determined that an incoming contact has not been detected the method may return to continue to monitor the communications device for an incoming contact. If however it is determined that an incoming contact has been detected at least one attribute of the incoming contact may be computed . A representation of a telephone number associated with a source of the incoming contact and the at least one attribute of the incoming contact may be transmitted to a server.

In one example a representation of a telephone number associated with the source that originated an incoming contact to a communications device may be received . In addition at least one attribute associated with the incoming contact may also be received . The at least one attribute may be determined by analyzing the incoming contact. A reputation score for the phone number may be computed using the at least one attribute. A determination may be made as to whether the computed reputation score satisfies a threshold. If it is determined that the computed reputation does not satisfy the threshold the method may return to receive a phone number associated with the source that originated in an incoming call to the communications device. If however it is determined that the computed reputation does satisfy the threshold the phone number may be added to a blacklist. For example a phone number may be added to the blacklist if a minimum number of communication devices have transmitted the phone number to the server . In addition a phone number may be added to the blacklist if the incoming contact originating from the source associated with the phone number is rejected by a minimum number of communications devices .

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system and application programs are loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components or devices. For example the monitoring agent to implement the present systems and methods may be stored within the system memory . Applications resident with computer system are generally stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. Additionally applications can be in the form of electronic signals modulated in accordance with the application and data communication technology when accessed via network modem or interface .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present systems and methods. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . The operation of a computer system such as that shown in is readily known in the art and is not discussed in detail in this application. Code to implement the present disclosure can be stored in computer readable medium such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Moreover regarding the signals described herein those skilled in the art will recognize that a signal can be directly transmitted from a first block to a second block or a signal can be modified e.g. amplified attenuated delayed latched buffered inverted filtered or otherwise modified between the blocks. Although the signals of the above described embodiment are characterized as transmitted from one block to the next other embodiments of the present systems and methods may include modified signals in place of such directly transmitted signals as long as the informational and or functional aspect of the signal is transmitted between blocks. To some extent a signal input at a second block can be conceptualized as a second signal derived from a first signal output from a first block due to physical limitations of the circuitry involved e.g. there will inevitably be some attenuation and delay . Therefore as used herein a second signal derived from a first signal includes the first signal or any modifications to the first signal whether due to circuit limitations or due to passage through other circuit elements which do not change the informational and or final functional aspect of the first signal.

With reference to computer system modem network interface or some other method can be used to provide connectivity from each of client computer systems and to network . Client systems and are able to access information on storage server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown . Such a client allows client systems and to access data hosted by storage server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N N or intelligent storage array . depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data but the present systems and methods are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

Furthermore while various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present systems and methods and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the present systems and methods and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

