---

title: Authentication of service requests initiated from a social networking site
abstract: Described are computer-based methods and apparatuses, including computer program products, for authenticating user service requests from a social networking site. Data representing a selected message and an originator of the selected message is stored. Data representing a reply to the originator of the selected message is transmitted for posting at the social networking server, the reply including data that causes transmission of a service request to the server when actuated. Data representing the service request and a sender of the service request is received. Data representing a user profile of the sender of the service request is retrieved from the social networking server. One or more attributes of the user profile of the sender are compared against one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the selected message in order to verify the one or more attributes of the user profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918465&OS=08918465&RS=08918465
owner: LivePerson, Inc.
number: 08918465
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101214
---
The present invention relates generally to computer based methods and apparatuses including computer program products for authentication of service requests initiated from a social networking site.

With the advent of social networking sites e.g. Facebook Twitter MySpace LinkedIn and other social networking sites it has become increasingly common for people to publicly share information. Social networking sites typically allow a user to create and maintain their own unique user profile that contains personal information about themselves e.g. their name residence hobbies etc. . Once a user becomes a member of a social networking site the user can communicate with other users of the social networking site e.g. with a specific individual with a group of individuals or with all users of the social networking site .

A user can send messages or post updates to one or more other users for example at their own volition or in response to a previous message or update from themselves or another user . These updates can include any type of information often being limited only by the user s imagination. Some messages include status updates that describe what the user is currently doing at the time of the status update or what the user intends to do in the near future. Some updates express a user s satisfaction or dissatisfaction with a product or experience. Some updates ask questions to other users of the social networking site. Depending on the context it is desirable to monitor the content of the messages or updates and to allow the user or people e.g. associated with the user in some way such as a friend of the user a contact of the user members of the same group of the user to initiate service requests.

The techniques described herein provide computerized methods apparatuses and computer program products for authentication of service requests initiated from a social networking site. Such authentication facilitates for example provisioning service requests to users of the social networking site only upon authorization of the requesting users.

In one embodiment the invention features a computerized method for authenticating user service requests from a social networking site. The method includes monitoring at a server data representing messages posted at a social networking server. The method includes storing by the server data representing a selected message and an originator of the selected message. The method includes transmitting from the server data representing a reply to the originator of the selected message for posting at the social networking server the reply including data that causes transmission of a service request to the server when actuated. The method includes receiving at the server data representing the service request and a sender of the service request. The method includes retrieving by the server data representing a user profile of the sender of the service request from the social networking server. The method includes comparing by the server one or more attributes of the user profile of the sender against one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the selected message in order to verify the one or more attributes of the user profile. The method includes processing by the server the service request from the sender if the one or more attributes of the user profile of the sender match the one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the selected message.

In another embodiment the invention features a computer program product tangibly embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium. The computer program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to monitor data representing messages posted at a social networking server. The computer program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to store data representing a selected message and an originator of the selected message. The computer program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to transmit data representing a reply to the originator of the selected message for posting at the social networking server the reply including data that causes transmission of a service request to the server when actuated. The computer program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to receive data representing the service request and a sender of the service request. The computer program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to retrieve data representing a user profile of the sender of the service request from the social networking server. The computer program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to compare one or more attributes of the user profile of the sender against one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the selected message in order to verify the one or more attributes of the user profile. The computer program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to process the service request from the sender if the one or more attributes of the user profile of the sender match the one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the selected message.

In another embodiment the invention features an apparatus for authenticating user service requests from a social networking site. The apparatus includes a database configured to store data representing a selected message and an originator of the selected message. The apparatus includes a server in communication with the database with a processor and memory configured to monitor data representing messages posted at a social networking server. The server is configured to transmit data representing a reply to the originator of the selected message for posting at the social networking server the reply including data that causes transmission of a service request to the server when actuated. The server is configured to receive data representing the service request and a sender of the service request. The server is configured to retrieve data representing a user profile of the sender of the service request from the social networking server. The server is configured to compare one or more attributes of the user profile of the sender against one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the selected message in order to verify the one or more attributes of the user profile. The server is configured to process the service request from the sender if the one or more attributes of the user profile of the sender match the one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the selected message.

In other examples any of the aspects above can include one or more of the following features. The service request can be a request to initiate a chat session. Comparing can include comparing a person attribute in the user profile to a person attribute in the stored data representing the originator to determine whether the sender is the originator of the selected message. Comparing can include comparing a follower attribute in the user profile to a follower attribute in the stored data representing the originator to determine whether the sender is a follower of the originator of the selected message.

In some examples comparing includes comparing a location attribute in the user profile to a location attribute in the stored data representing the originator to determine whether the sender is in a same location as the originator of the selected message. Retrieving the data representing a user profile can include transmitting data representing an access authorization to the sender of the service request for authorization to retrieve the data representing the user profile and receiving data representing a response to the access authorization the response including data indicative of the sender providing access authorization.

In other examples processing the service request includes transmitting a request to a chat server to establish a chat between the sender of the service request and a third party. Data representing a second user profile of the originator of the selected message can be retrieved from a second social networking server. Data representing the reply can be transmitted to the originator at the second social networking server. An aggregated social media profile for the originator including the second user profile and the data representing the selected message and the originator of the selected message can be stored.

In some examples the social networking server provides a social networking service to users the social networking service including a social networking service provided by a social networking site selected from the group consisting of twitter.com facebook.com myspace.com or any combination thereof. The service request can be an advertisement request a support request a voice call request or any combination thereof.

In other examples the social networking server provides a social networking service to users the social networking service including a social networking service provided by a social networking site selected from the group consisting of twitter.com facebook.com myspace.com or any combination thereof. The server can include a user interface configured to display the data representing messages posted at the social networking server.

The techniques which include both methods and apparatuses described herein can provide one or more of the following advantages. Information can be retrieved from social networking sites based on keywords and reacted to as desired e.g. by a predefined set of rules . If for example a message posted by an originating user includes one or more keywords of interest a response e.g. posted reply message can be sent to the originator of the message that includes invocable data to initiate a service request by a user of the social networking site e.g. by the originator or other users of the social networking site . Once initiated the system can authenticate the initiator of the service request e.g. based on a user profile of the initiator to verify that for example the service request is only granted to a desired audience of the social networking site e.g. to verify that the initiator profile matches the originator profile or the initiator profile is related to the originator profile . Advantageously services such as advertisements chat services live help and other services can be provided to a targeted group of users of social networking sites.

Social media profiles can be created for users of the social networking site that includes account information for the users aggregated across a plurality of social networking sites to which the user belongs e.g. for users that post messages that are responded to by the system described herein . The aggregated social media profile can be used to respond to an originator of a message at any one of the originator s many social media services. Advantageously the targeted group of users for the services is spread across multiple social networking sites.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating the principles of the invention by way of example only.

In general overview computerized systems and methods are provided for provisioning services to authenticated users of social networking services provided by social networking sites. Social networking sites or social media can be monitored so that messages of interest e.g. posted by users of the social networking sites are responded to and provided with invocable data to initiate a service request. The actuator of the service request which can be the originator of the identified message or another user of the social networking site is authenticated before providing the actuator with the service associated with the service request. In some examples the user profile or data profile e.g. which is requested from the social networking site associated with the actuator of the service request is compared against the stored data for the associated identified message e.g. a user profile for the user that initiated the associated identified message to authenticate one or more attributes between the originator of the identified message and the actuator of the service request.

The social networking server can be for example a single web server with a processor and memory or a plurality of web servers configured to provide a social networking service to the user devices . The social networking services can include for example providing computerized services for the user to maintain or update their profile with the social networking site providing computerized services that facilitate communication with other users of the social networking site providing computerized services for posting communications or messages and other services offered through social networking sites. The social networking services can include those service provided by for example twitter.com facebook.com myspace.com or linkedin.com. The social networking site provides an application programming interface API that facilitates monitoring keywords in messages or other data used within the social networking service e.g. which can be viewed by user devices . Although the following description is directed to an embodiment involving the social networking site twitter.com the described computerized systems and methods are not so limited and can be applied to other social networking sites such as facebook.com myspace.com or linkedin.com.

The API is an interface implemented by the social networking site that enables other software programs e.g. a program executed by the monitoring server to interact with the social networking site. The social networking site provides services through the API and the API allows the other software programs to access the services. For example the API services can include services to monitor keywords contained within user communications posted in the social networking site services to post communications e.g. messages to users of the social networking site or services to obtain information about users of the social networking site e.g. user profile information .

The user devices are computing devices with a processor and memory that can interact with the social networking site. For example the user devices can include desktop computers laptop computers tablet PCs and or smart phones. A user of a social networking site can use a user device to log into the social networking site and to use the provided social networking services. A user can use any user device they profile information for a user can be determined independently for a user from the actual user device .

The monitoring server is a computing device having a processor and memory that uses the API for the social networking site to monitor one or more configurable keywords. For example a computer hardware company that specializes in selling computer hard drives may want to automatically monitor user posts or messages to the social networking server to identify posts that includes keywords or phrases related to their business. Advantageously the monitoring server can receive information based on the keywords and react to the keywords as desired e.g. if a question is posted from a user device about hard drives the monitoring server can transmit a link to the user device that when invoked establishes a chat connection with a person who is knowledgeable about hard drives and who can answer the question transmitted from the user device .

For example the Twitter social networking site provides an API that allows the monitoring server to monitor keywords contained within tweets. A tweet is a posted message that is viewable by users of the twitter.com site. The monitoring server can interface with the twitter social networking site using the API e.g. by subscribing to a service through the API such a notification service that pushes information to programs that implement certain functions of the API with one or more keywords to receive notifications that the keyword is being tweeted the number of tweets that include the keyword the number of followers that can see the tweet and or other pertinent information. When the monitoring server identifies a keyword the monitoring server can send a reply tweet to the user that posted the tweet containing the keyword. The database is configured to store data representing selected messages or tweets e.g. those that contain the monitored keyword and an originator of the selected message e.g. which user device transmitted the selected message to the social networking server .

The monitoring server can be in communication with an operator terminal not shown that includes a graphical user interface configured to display the data representing messages posted at the social networking server . For example the monitoring server can display information about the identified messages that include the one or more monitored keywords. The information about the messages can include for example the date of the message the number of followers of the user that posted the message e.g. people who are subscribed to see the particular message and any related messages the number of friends of the posting user e.g. the number of people the posting user has established a relationship with in the social networking site the geographical location of the posting user e.g. to the country level state level city level etc. an identifier for the message a token for the message e.g. an Open Authorization OAuth token the source of the message e.g. the user posted the message via the web via a mobile device etc. the content of the message the number of messages related to the posted message e.g. the number of messages in the message string that contained the posted message such as the count of tweets the user image associated with the posting user e.g. a picture of the user the name of the posting user a user name associated with the posting user in the social networking site e.g. a screen name for the user and or other information gleaned from the message e.g. based on the posted message itself a user profile associated with the posting user or other information from the social networking site .

An operator can view the graphical user interface provided by the operator terminal to decide how to respond to the identified message post. For example the operator may decide not to respond to the identified message based on one or more criteria associated with the identified message e.g. geographical area message content etc. . Or the operator can decide to send a response to the identified message. This process is described in further detail with respect to .

The application server provides one or more services to the user devices . The service can include for example a chat service e.g. between the user device and a third party such as a person knowledgeable about a question posed from the user device an advertisement service e.g. advertisements related to the keywords of the user s message a support service e.g. documents or links to documents related to the user s message and or a voice service e.g. the service facilitates a call between the user and a third party such as a person knowledgeable about a question posted from the user device . For example as will be further described below the monitoring server can through the API post a message in reply to a posted message the posted message containing a link e.g. a URL . The link once invoked by a user device initiates a service with the application server . The monitoring server can authenticate the user device before providing the service to the user e.g. as described with reference to below based on a data user profile associated with the user device .

Posted message N includes a logo username user one content i.e. What is the best kind of computer hard drive to buy and posting information i.e. 7 minutes ago via web . Posted messages are used for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to be limiting. One skilled in the art can appreciate that the information contained within the posted messages can be modified without departing from the spirit of the techniques described herein.

Referring to user one where user one is a screen name representative of user device or of an operator of the user device posted message A to the social networking server . One minute later user one posted the posted using a user device message N to the social networking server . User one can configure his account with the social networking site to control which other users can see posted messages A and N. There can be posted messages by other users between posted messages A and N e.g. a different user device can post a message in response to posted message A . For example all people following the posts on social networking page A can see posted message A and can choose to post a message in response. Similarly for example any person that user one has established a relationship within the social networking site e.g. friends can view the posted message A and or any user device can view posted message A.

The social networking page B in includes posted messages A and N from and also includes posted message N 1. Posted message N 1 includes a logo username auto reply content i.e. What do you want to know about hard drives a link that causes transmission of a service request to the monitoring server and posting information i.e. 5 minutes ago via API in response to user one . The posting information indicates that posted message N 1 was posted by auto reply e.g. a user with the screen name auto reply which may correspond to an individual user or a company five minutes ago via an API e.g. an API to the social networking site provided by social networking server which allows messages to be posted in response to a user s message in response to the posted message N by user one . Message N 1 will be discussed in further detail with respect to below. The posted message N 1 can be transmitted automatically e.g. by the monitoring server based on rules stored in the database or manually e.g. by an operator of the monitoring server .

At step the monitoring sever determines whether to verify one or more attributes of the sender of the service request. For example the monitoring server can determine whether or not to verify attributes of the sender based on the data of the sender e.g. the attributes in the data . In some examples the monitoring server can be configured e.g. via a stored variable to automatically verify or not verify the attributes of the sender. If the monitoring server is configured to verify one or more attributes the method proceeds to step of . If the monitoring server is not configured to verify the attributes of the sender the method proceeds to step and the monitoring server processes the service request.

Referring to step the monitoring server monitors data representing messages posted at the social networking server . For example users of the social networking site Twitter post tweets to the social networking server . The monitoring server accesses information about these posted tweets messages from the social networking server using for example an API provided by Twitter. The monitoring server can be configured to store particular information or attributes from the social networking sever using the API. The monitoring server can use the acquired information to determine whether to engage the user that posted the message. In some examples the monitoring server presents a graphical user interface that displays the acquired information to an operator that decides how to respond to the message e.g. not to respond or to respond .

For example referring to a computer company that sells hard drives can configure the monitoring server to monitor messages posted to social networking server for particular keywords related to hard drives. For example the monitoring server can be configured to monitor the content of messages posted at social networking server for the keywords hard drive and buy. Advantageously if a message includes these keywords the monitoring server can take appropriate action such that a message is transmitted in response to the posted message e.g. to provide a link that once clicked facilitates setting up a chat session between the user and a third party to help the user with purchasing a hard drive or to provide an advertisement for hard drives that are provided by the computer company . An exemplary social media monitoring tool is the tracx platform provided by tracx of Hoboken N.J.

Referring to step the monitoring server can store data for a selected message if the selected message includes data e.g. keywords in the message content a particular user name a posting time of the message etc. that the monitoring server is configured to identify in the posted messages. For example continuing with the computer company example described above with respect to step if the monitoring server identifies a message that includes one or more of the keywords hard drive and or buy the monitoring server can store data indicative of the message and or the originator of the message in database . Advantageously the stored data for the message and or the originating user can be used to authenticate the requestor of a service request associated with the message.

Referring to step the monitoring server transmits a reply to the originator of the selected message. For example referring to the monitoring server transmits message N 1 to user one using the social networking server in response to message N posted by user one . Message N 1 includes content and link that causes transmission of a service request to the monitoring server . For example link can be a chat invitation e.g. an invitation to a two way chat between the user device and a second device . If a user of a user device clicks the link the user device can be redirected to the application server to open up a chat which is described in further detail with respect to step below .

Referring further to step some social networking sites provide constraints on who can respond to a posted message. The monitoring server can transmit the reply e.g. using the API for the social networking site in such a way that it complies with the social networking site constraints and still responds to the user s posted message. For example when using Twitter there may not be a way to send a twitter message to a user device if the posting party e.g. the monitoring server is not following the tweets that included the identified message. Continuing with the computer company example if the monitoring server is not following the account of user one e.g. not following the tweets of user one then the monitoring server can not send user one a direct message. To comply with these social networking site constraints the monitoring server can for example send a public tweet and or send a comment e.g. a single message to tweeter or a broadcast message to everyone following the tweet .

Referring to step the monitoring server receives data representing the service request. For example the monitoring server receives data indicative of a user of a user device clicking on the link . Depending on the social networking site and or how a user configures their account with the social networking site there may not be any guarantee that the user to whom the monitoring server transmitted message N 1 is also the same user that clicked on the link . For example if one or more users are following the message chain of user one that includes messages A N and N 1 then not only can user one click the link but so can any of the other users that are viewing the social networking page B. In some examples any user of the social networking site can view the social networking page B and therefore any user can click the link . Therefore in some embodiments it may be desirable to verify attributes of the sender e.g. to verify the attributes of the user profile for the user that clicked link to determine whether that the monitoring server will provide the service to the sender. The verification process is described in further detail with respect to .

Referring to step the monitoring server processes the service request. For example the service request can be a request to initiate a service provided by application server . For example the application server can be a chat server and the service request can be a request to initiate a chat session between the user that initiated the service request and a second user e.g. through the application server . The monitoring server can process the service request to chat by transmitting a request to application server to establish a chat between the sender of the service request and a third party. Returning to the computer company example if user one clicks on link the monitoring server can instruct the application server to set up a chat session between the initiating user and an expert from the computer company. The expert can be for example an expert in the field of computer hard drives. Advantageously this allows the initiating user to have a chat with the expert about hard drives. Such chat conversations allow the initiating user to have live time discussions to learn information and or answer any questions they have about a particular topic.

In some examples the expert is matched up with the initiating user based on one or more criteria. For example the application server can select the expert based on one or more skills e.g. technology advisors social media agents etc. . Advantageously the monitoring server and or the application server can direct the initiating user to the person who will help the most. In some examples the expert is selected based on the content of the messages e.g. messages that contain certain keywords related to the company keywords indicative of questions e.g. why or etc. . While the monitoring server can select the expert based on the content of the messages the monitoring server can also select the user based on other criteria e.g. the initiating user s social media profile . For example as described above the monitoring server can select the expert based on other information known about the messages such as for example the date of the message the number of followers or friends geographical location etc.

While the term expert is used to describe the second person of the chat conversation this term is used to not only to represent a person with particular knowledge about a field e.g. a person knowledgeable about computer hard drives but can also be used to refer to any person who can help the initiating user e.g. by answering questions directing them to other websites providing information etc. .

In some examples the service request is an advertisement request. For example the content of message N 1 can direct a viewer to click the link for a coupon. In some examples the service request is a support request. In some examples the service request is a voice call request. For example the service request can include data indicative of a phone number for the requesting user and a request that the requesting user be called at the phone number. In some examples the user is presented with a dialog box e.g. as a web page or as an applet that allows the user to provide their contact information.

Referring to step the monitoring server can retrieve data representing the sender from the social networking server using for example an API provided by the social networking site that is being provided by the social networking server. The monitoring server may request authorization from the sender of the service request before retrieving data about the sender. For example the monitoring server can transmit an authorization request to the sender e.g. via a pop up dialog box a web page etc. . The authorization request can be for example data representing an access authorization to retrieve the data representing the requesting user s profile from the social networking server . The authorization request has a mechanism e.g. graphical interface buttons check boxes etc. for the sender to indicate either that they do or do not authorize the monitoring server to retrieve data from the social networking sever about them. When the user operates the mechanism the monitoring server receives data representing a response to the access authorization. If the monitoring server receives data indicative of a denial from the sender then the monitoring server can terminate method and not retrieve data representing the user from the social networking server . If the monitoring server receives data indicative of the sender providing access authorization then the monitoring server is authorized to request information from the social networking server e.g. the sender s user profile .

In some examples the authorization request is embedded in the social networking site. In some examples when the requesting user clicks link the link can redirect the user to a servlet that prompts the user with the authorization request e.g. a Java servlet or some other protocol by which the monitoring server can respond to the HTTP request . This request can be a request to begin the OAuth stage of method . If the monitoring server receives authorization the monitoring server can request any appropriate information from the social networking server e.g. the user profile . The monitoring server can retrieve stored information for the originator of the selected message from database e.g. which was stored in step of method . The information retrieved from the social networking server can include for example any information that the monitoring server can use to verify the user profile against the originator of the selected message. For example the information retrieved from the social networking server can include the date of the message the number of followers of the user the number of friends of the user the user s geographical location an identifier for the message a token for the message the source of the message the content of the message the number of messages related to the posted message the user s image the name of the user a user name associated with the user and or other information gleaned from the message.

Referring to steps and the monitoring server can verify one or more attributes of the user profile and the originator of the selected message. In some examples the monitoring server can verify that the originator of the message is the sender of the service request. For example the monitoring server can compare a person attribute in the user profile to a person attribute in the stored data representing the originator to determine whether the sender is the originator of the selected message. If the person attributes match then the monitoring server successfully validated that the sender is the originator of the selected message. For example referring to user one posted message N and this information is stored in the database . The stored information includes a person attribute indicative of user one . If the user one clicked the link in message N 1 then the monitoring server will receive a person attribute indicative of user one in response to its request for information about the sender of the service request. Since the person attribute for the originator of message N is the same as the person attribute for the sender of the service request the monitoring server can identify that the same user clicked the link . Advantageously the monitoring server can process the service request e.g. step since the service request was effected by an intended recipient of the service request.

In some examples the monitoring server can verify one or more attributes between the user profile and the originator of the selected message that are not unique to the originator of the selected message. For example the one or more attributes can be shared by a group of people e.g. and the monitoring server can be configured to engage with members of the particular group . Advantageously the monitoring server need not verify that the service request was effected by the same user that posted the message but can verify other characteristics such as characteristics of user profiles. For example the monitoring server can verify whether there is any relationship between the originator of the message and the sender of the service request e.g. if they are friends in the social networking site whether they are located within a same geographical area whether they share one or more common interests or hobbies and or other attributes. For example the monitoring server can verify the sender of the service request is a follower of the originator of the selected message. The monitoring server can compare a follower attribute in the user profile to a follower attribute in the stored data representing the originator to determine whether the sender is a follower of the originator of the selected message. Advantageously by performing such comparisons the monitoring server can determine that the sender of the service request is likely to share one or more attributes or characteristics with the originator of the message and therefore is likely to be a proper audience for the service request.

In some examples the monitoring server verifies the sender of the service request is in the same geographical location as the originator of the message. For example the monitoring server can compare a location attribute in the user profile to a location attribute in the stored data representing the originator to determine whether the sender is in a same location as the originator of the selected message. Advantageously by comparing the location information the monitoring server can verify that for example targeted advertisements are provided to appropriate recipients.

Advantageously the monitoring server can determine if the sender of the service request is the same person as the originator of the selected message based on for example a user ID date time location e.g. the location of the message based on packet information and geographical location information and any other attributes relevant to identifying the sender of the service request. Advantageously because the monitoring server has stored data for the selected message the monitoring server is not limited to matching the identity of the sender and the originator. As another example the monitoring server can determine whether the sender of the service request is a friend of the selected message. For example the monitoring server can determine whether the sender has some relationship in the social network to the originator of the selected message e.g. as indicated between their user profiles . As an illustrative example the monitoring server can use an identification field in the originator s profile and use the identification field to get all the followers of the originator e.g. via the social networking site s API . The monitoring server can perform a basic search of the retrieved list of followers to determine whether the sender of the service request is a follower of the originator of the stored message.

Referring to step after the sender of the service request is authenticated the sender can be redirected based on their user profile. For example the sender can be redirected to a chat session with an expert. The application server can select the expert based on one or more skills of the expert e.g. technology advisors social media agents etc. based on the sender s user profile. For example as described above the monitoring server can select the expert based on the number of followers or friends in the sender s user profile the geographical location in the user s profile etc.

Referring to step the monitoring server can perform other actions even though the monitoring server does not process the service request. For example the sender of the service request can be directed to a particular web page e.g. a landing page . For example the sender can be directed to a default advertisement a web page that explains the authentication process a web page that explains why the sender was not provided with the service request and or the like.

In some examples the monitoring server can monitor a first social networking site and respond to messages posted at the first social networking site through a second social networking site. For example referring to method in the monitoring server can monitor data indicative of messages posted at social networking server . The monitoring server can retrieve data representing a second user profile of the originator of the selected message from a second social networking server e.g. from a different social networking server than social networking server which is not shown in . Referring to step the monitoring server can transmit data representing the reply to the originator at the second social networking server e.g. and not through the social networking server .

For example the monitoring server can monitor tweets posted to Twitter e.g. via the Twitter API . If the monitoring server desires to respond to a tweet e.g. the tweet includes one or more keywords of interest the monitoring server can identify one or more additional social networking sites that the originator of the selected message belongs to e.g. other social networking sites where the originator has an account . For example the monitoring server can determine that the originator has a Facebook account. The monitoring server can transmit a reply based on the originator s tweet to the originator via Facebook instead of through Twitter.

In some examples the monitoring server stores an aggregated social media profile for the originator comprising any other user profiles or information for the originator at other social media services. The monitoring server can also store the data representing the selected message and the originator of the selected message in the aggregated social media profile. Advantageously the monitoring server can use the aggregated social media profile to respond to the originator at any one of its many social media services. The social media server can provide multiple social networking sites a single social media server can provide a single social networking site or any combination thereof. The social networking site can include Twitter Facebook Myspace LinkedIn and or any other social networking service.

The above described computerized methods and apparatuses can be implemented in digital and or analog electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The implementation can be as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by or to control the operation of a data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer and or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of computer or programming language including source code compiled code interpreted code and or machine code and the computer program can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a subroutine element or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one or more sites.

The computerized method steps can be performed by one or more processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and or generating output data. Method steps can also be performed by and an apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA field programmable gate array a FPAA field programmable analog array a CPLD complex programmable logic device a PSoC Programmable System on Chip ASIP application specific instruction set processor or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . Subroutines can refer to portions of the computer program and or the processor special circuitry that implement one or more functions.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital or analog computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and or data. Memory devices such as a cache can be used to temporarily store data. Memory devices can also be used for long term data storage. Generally a computer also includes or is operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. A computer can also be operatively coupled to a communications network in order to receive instructions and or data from the network and or to transfer instructions and or data to the network. Computer readable storage devices suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of volatile and non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. DRAM SRAM EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks e.g. CD DVD HD DVD and Blu ray disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by and or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the above described techniques can be implemented on a computer in communication with a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube plasma or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse a trackball a touchpad or a motion sensor by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech and or tactile input.

The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a back end component. The back end component can for example be a data server a middleware component and or an application server. The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a front end component. The front end component can for example be a client computer having a graphical user interface a Web browser through which a user can interact with an example implementation and or other graphical user interfaces for a transmitting device. The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes any combination of such back end middleware or front end components.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and a server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

The components of the computing system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital or analog data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include circuit based and packet based networks. Packet based networks can include for example the Internet a carrier internet protocol IP network e.g. local area network LAN wide area network WAN campus area network CAN metropolitan area network MAN home area network HAN a private IP network an IP private branch exchange IPBX a wireless network e.g. radio access network RAN 802.11 network 802.16 network general packet radio service GPRS network HiperLAN and or other packet based networks. Circuit based networks can include for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a private branch exchange PBX a wireless network e.g. RAN bluetooth code division multiple access CDMA network time division multiple access TDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or other circuit based networks.

Devices of the computing system and or computing devices can include for example a computer a computer with a browser device a telephone an IP phone a mobile device e.g. cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA device laptop computer electronic mail device a server a rack with one or more processing cards special purpose circuitry and or other communication devices. The browser device includes for example a computer e.g. desktop computer laptop computer with a world wide web browser e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer available from Microsoft Corporation Mozilla Firefox available from Mozilla Corporation . A mobile computing device includes for example a Blackberry . IP phones include for example a Cisco Unified IP Phone 7985G available from Cisco System Inc and or a Cisco Unified Wireless Phone 7920 available from Cisco System Inc.

One skilled in the art will realize the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of the invention described herein. Scope of the invention is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein.

