---

title: Methods, apparatus, systems and computer readable mediums for use in generating a customs export document
abstract: According to some embodiments, methods, apparatus, systems and/or computer readable mediums are provided. According to some embodiments, a method includes generating at least one shipment request data object based at least in part on at least one outbound delivery data object; generating at least one freight unit data object based at least in part on the at least one shipment request data object; generating at least one shipment data object based at least in part on the at least one freight unit data object; generating at least one invoice data object based at least in part on the at least one shipment data object; and generating at least one customs export document based at least in part on the at least one invoice.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08417646&OS=08417646&RS=08417646
owner: SAP AG
number: 08417646
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20100302
---
Some embodiments of the present invention relate to methods apparatus systems and or computer readable mediums for use in association with customs related activities. In particular some embodiments relate to systems methods apparatus and or computer readable mediums for use in association with generating customs export documents.

Exporters are often required to provide a customs export document prior to exporting products out of a trade territory e.g. a territory of and or within a country or group of countries . The customs export document is often transmitted to a customs authority for the trade territory using an electronic system. See for example the Automated Export System AES which is commonly used in Germany.

The customs export document is often generated based on information from an enterprise resource planning ERP system. For example an ERP system may generate an outbound delivery data object to indicate that product s are ready to be delivered to a customer e.g. created in response to a sales order . This will result in making an outbound delivery to the customer e.g. a delivery leaving the factory. An invoice for the product s to be delivered to the customer may be generated from the outbound delivery data object and a customs export document may be generated based on such invoice.

In a prior art method for generating a customs export document based on information from an enterprise resource planning ERP system a separate customs export document is generated for each data delivery object.

It has been determined that it may be advantageous to include product s from more than one delivery object on a single customs export document while still including only one customer on the customs export document. In situations where each delivery data object includes only one type of product it may nonetheless be advantageous to have more than one product on a single customs export document while including only one customer on the customs export document. It may also be advantageous to have more than one delivery on a single customs export document while including only one customer on the customs export document. In some embodiments one or more of these consolidations may greatly reduce the number of customs export documents that are required to export a shipment of products to the customer.

It has also been determined that it may be advantageous to facilitate determination of whether a shipment has been cleared for export.

The trade territory may comprise any type of trade territory. In some embodiments the trade territory comprises some and or all territory of a single country e.g. the United States of America . In some other embodiments the trade territory comprises some or all territory of a plurality of countries e.g. the European Union .

The plurality of products may comprise any type s of product s . In some embodiments the plurality of products comprise two or more different types of products such as for example a product of a first type represented by product a product of a second type represented by a product and a product of a third type represented by a product .

The plurality of products may be exported from a facility . Prior to being exported the plurality of products may be produced at and or delivered to the facility . The facility which may comprise a manufacturing facility and or any other type of manufacturing or distribution related facility e.g. warehouse may be owned operated and or otherwise associated with an entity .

In some embodiments two or more of the products to be exported out of the trade territory may be combined into a single shipment. In the illustrated embodiment for example two or more of the products may be combined into a single shipment transported by a vehicle out of the trade territory.

In some embodiments the system provides automatic consolidation of deliveries into a shipment. In some embodiments the delivery includes more than one product per delivery. In some embodiments a product is found in more than one delivery.

In some embodiments the system provides a user with a capability to control to at least some degree whether particular deliveries or types of deliveries are to be combined into single shipment. In some embodiments this capability is provided via a provision of one or more editable parameters or other tools in a graphical or other type of user interface. In some embodiments the capability is provide via a standard split screen criteria tool in a graphical user interface that may be employed by a user to input data that may be used by the system in providing such control.

The system may be used in generating one or more customs export document prior to exporting the products out of the trade territory. The system may comprise any type s of system and may be disposed inside and or outside of the facility and or trade territory . In some embodiments the system or portion s thereof has an architecture that is the same as and or similar to the architecture of apparatus or portion s thereof of . In some embodiments the system may be owned operated and or otherwise associated with the entity .

In some embodiments the system includes a user device such as for example a PC workstation set top device or mobile computer. The user device may for example transmit and or receive data such as text graphics videos audio content and or tabular content from one or more sources within the system and or external to the system . The user device may be located in proximity with and or remote from one or more other portions of the system .

In some embodiments the user device includes a display screen or other output device and a mouse or other input device none of which is separately shown to allow the user device to provide data to and or receive data from a user. In some embodiments the user device executes a browser program to transmit and or receive data via a computer network e.g. internet. In some embodiments the user device or portion s thereof has an architecture that is the same as and or similar to the architecture of apparatus or portion s thereof of .

In some embodiments the user device is used to provide a user interface for example but not limited to one some or all of the user interfaces described herein.

In some embodiments the planning and or logistics system comprises an enterprise resource planning ERP system for example an ERP system provided by SAP AG headquartered in Walldorf Germany. In some embodiments the planning and or logistics system is a supply chain management system. In some embodiments the planning and or logistics system or portion s thereof has an architecture that is the same as and or similar to the architecture of apparatus or portion s thereof of .

In some embodiments the transportation management system comprises a system such as for example TM 7.0 also provided by SAP AG. In some embodiments the transportation management system or portion s thereof has an architecture that is the same as and or similar to the architecture of apparatus or portion s thereof of .

The trade system may comprise a Global Trade System GTS such as for example GTS 8.0 also provided by SAP AG. In some embodiments the trade system or portion s thereof has an architecture that is the same as and or similar to the architecture of apparatus or portion s thereof of .

In some embodiments the transportation management system which may comprise SAP TM 7.0 initiates generation of invoices sometimes referred to as billing documents in the planning and or logistics system which may comprises SAP ERP 6.0 for deliveries that are transferred from the planning and or logistics system and processed further in the transportation management system . The trade system may then carry out export processing based on these invoices.

In some embodiments one or both of two advantages are provided by the system where a first advantage is the advantage of using the transportation management system integration with the planning and or logistics system and the trade system and a second advantage is automated shipment consolidation.

In some embodiments the system communicates one or more customs export documents to a customs authority system operated by and or associated with a customs authority of the trade territory.

In some embodiments the trade system and or the transportation management system interact with customs authorities to facilitate pre clearance whereby a vehicle arrives at the border often with a sealed load and a pre clearance to cross. In some embodiments one of the possible efficiencies of such a system would be defeated if the vehicle arrived prior to clearance being issued.

In some embodiments it is possible to retrieve the release status of export transactions assigned by the customs authorities directly from transportation management system and or the trade system .

In accordance with some embodiments the method may be used generating one or more customs export document.

The method is not limited to the order shown in the flow chart. Rather embodiments of the method may be performed in any order that is practicable. For that matter unless stated otherwise any method disclosed herein may be performed in any order that is practicable.

Referring to at the method may include receiving a plurality of outbound delivery data objects. In some embodiments each of the plurality of outbound delivery data objects is associated with product s and a customer and indicates that the associated product s are ready to be delivered to the associated customer.

At the method may further include generating at least one shipment request data object based at least in part on the plurality of outbound delivery data objects.

At the method may further include generating at least one freight unit data object based at least in part on the at least one shipment request data object.

At the method may further include generating at least one shipment data object based at least in part on the at least one freight unit data object.

At the method may further include generating at least one invoice data object based at least in part on the at least one shipment data object.

At the method may further include generating at least one customs export document based at least in part on the at least one invoice. In some embodiments at least one of the at least one customs export document identifies more than one product that is to be delivered to a customer.

As stated above it may be advantageous to include more than one product on a customs export document while still including only one customer on the customs export document . In some embodiments this may reduce the number of customs export documents that are required to export a shipment of products to the customer. Reducing the number of documents may reduce the amount of time needed to generate the customs export documents for a shipment and or may reduce the amount of communication e.g. between the logistics system and the trade system needed to generate the customs export documents for a shipment. In some embodiments reducing the number of customs export documents may also reduce costs because a customs authority may charge for each customs export document. In addition in some embodiments the likelihood of a pre clearance being issued for a shipment increases if the number of customs documents related to the shipment decreases.

At the method may further comprise using the system to manually check a status of a customs declaration e.g. from the transportation management system . A shipment status may then be updated. In some embodiments the checking of the status may help to make sure that a shipment is not exported before the customs authorities release an export thereby helping to make sure that logistics processes are compliant with all local laws.

At the method may further include receiving a user request for a status of a customs declaration and providing the status of the customs declaration in response to the user request.

The planning and or logistics system may include an order processing portion an invoicing portion and a GTS invoicing portion . The order processing portion may receive one or more sales order data objects represented in by a sales order data object and may generate a plurality of outbound delivery data objects represented in by a delivery data object based at least in part thereon. The plurality of outbound delivery data objects may indicate that a plurality of products are ready to be delivered to one or more customers. In some embodiments the receiving of the one or more sales order data objects triggers the generation of the plurality of outbound delivery data objects . In some embodiments the sales order is any other type of order created in the course of business such as a repair order a fulfillment order 

The transportation management system may include a transportation request processing portion and a transportation activity processing portion . The transportation request processing portion may receive the plurality of outbound delivery data objects and may generate a plurality of shipment request data objects based at least in part thereon. In some embodiments the receiving of the plurality of outbound delivery data objects triggers the generation of the plurality of shipment request data objects. In some embodiments there is a one to one correspondence between the plurality of shipment request data objects and the plurality of outbound delivery data objects . In such embodiments each of the shipment request data objects may be based at least in part on a respective one of the plurality of outbound delivery data objects .

In some embodiments shipment request data objects are not generated unless outbound deliveries associated with the plurality of outbound delivery data objects are exports and have not been billed. In some embodiments the at least one shipment request data object is generated only if one or more of outbound deliveries associated with the plurality of outbound delivery data objects is for an export and has not been billed. In some embodiments the at least one shipment request data object is generated only if all of outbound deliveries associated with the plurality of outbound delivery data objects are for exports and have not been billed.

The plurality of shipment request data objects may be received by the transportation activity processing portion which may generate one or more planned transportation activity data objects represented in by a planned transportation activity data object based at least in part thereon. The transportation activity processing portion may also generate at least one freight unit data objects represented in by a freight unit data object . In some embodiments each of the at least one freight unit data objects is associated with a freight unit for shipping and identifies one or more of the products that will be shipped in the associated freight unit. In some embodiments a single freight unit may include products for more than one customer.

In some embodiments a freight unit comprises a shipping crate or other type of container and or structure to receive product s to be delivered. In some embodiments multiple freight units are loaded onto a single ship train truck or other type of vehicle for transporting product s to be delivered. In some embodiments a shipment comprises all of the deliveries being transported on a single vehicle to a single customer. In some embodiments a delivery comprises all of the products that are on a single order for a single customer. A customer may or may not be an end customer. In some embodiments a customer comprises a distributor that supplies product s to other customers each of which may or may not be an end customer .

The at least one freight unit data object may be received by the transportation request processing portion which may generate at least one shipment data object represented in by a shipment data object based at least in part thereon. In some embodiments a shipment data object identifies one or more freight units that will be shipped as part of the shipment. In some embodiments a shipment is to be shipped via a vehicle .

If a customs export document is to be generated for a shipment a call may be made and or other data sent to the GTS invoicing portion based at least in part on the shipment data object associated with the shipment. In some embodiments the call and or other data includes a plurality of unique identifiers that correspond to and or indicate products that have been combined into the shipment.

The GTS invoicing portion may generate data based at least in part on the call and or other data . The invoicing portion may receive the data generated by the GTS invoicing portion and may generate one or more invoices represented in by an invoice base at least in part thereon. In some embodiments each of the one or more invoices comprises a pro forma invoice that is generated in a same mapping and or manner as used when generating invoices based on one or more outbound delivery data object e.g. received from the order processing portion . In some embodiments a plurality of invoices are generated each invoice being associated with a respective customer and indicating one or more products that the respective customer is to receive from a shipment.

In some embodiments the system provides a user with a capability to control to at least some degree whether particular deliveries or types of deliveries are to be combined into a single invoice and or separated into multiple invoices. In some embodiments this capability is provided via a provision of one or more editable parameters or other tools in a graphical or other type of user interface that may be employed by a user to input data that may be used by the system in providing such control. In some embodiments the planning and or logistics system and or the transportation management system has one or more control blocks that receives the user data and or implements the control. In some embodiments the capability is provide via a standard split screen criteria tool in a graphical user interface.

The trade system may include an export declaration processing for receiving invoices portion and an export processing portion . The export declaration processing for receiving invoices portion may receive the one or more invoices and may generate one or more customs export document represented by a customs export document based at least thereon. In some embodiments each customs export document has a one to one correspondence with a respective one of the invoices. Thus in some embodiments the trade system generates exactly one customs export document for each invoice supplied thereto. In some embodiments each customs export document is associated with a respective customer and indicates one or more products that the respective customer is to receive from a shipment. The export processing portion may receive the one or more customs export documents and may generate one or more customs shipmen document represented in by a customs shipment document based at least thereon.

In some embodiments the trade system may provide data indicating a status of a customs declaration e.g. from the transportation management system .

In some embodiments the trade system allows a user to manually check the status of a customs declaration. In some embodiments this status update is triggered in the transportation management system and data is transferred from the trade system directly or indirectly to the transportation management system. In some embodiments this status update is manually triggered in the transportation management system. In some embodiments communication between the transportation management system and the trade system is via a communications link . In some embodiments the system provides a graphical user interface that allows the user to perform this check. In some embodiments the graphical user interface is used in association with a user device e.g. user device . In some embodiments a shipment status can then be updated. In some embodiments this may help make sure that a shipment is not exported before the customs authorities release an export thereby helping to make sure that logistics processes are compliant with all local laws.

In some embodiments the system removes a block on transport execution i.e. removes a hold on dispatching a vehicle as soon as the customs authorities grant the release e.g. grants a pre clearance .

In some embodiments the planning and or logistics system comprises an enterprise resource planning ERP system for example an ERP system e.g. ERP 6.0 and a trade system comprises a Global Trade System such as for example Global Trade Services GTS 8.0 both provided by SAP AG headquartered in Walldorf Germany. The trade system may be implemented as an Advanced Business Application Programming ABAP application within the ERP system. Connection to the transportation management system may be through an Application Programming Interface API incorporated into the ERP system and the transportation management system may make remote function calls to the trade system . As such in shipping scenarios involving exporting and trade regulation compliance the API may include a module which allows a user to create invoices which are then sent to the trade system .

In some embodiments the system comprises an integration of SAP Global Trade Services GTS 8.0 and SAP Transportation Management TM 7.0 that helps to simplify invoice creation export declaration and shipment consolidation. In some embodiments SAP TM is configured such that a flag is provided on a shipment header to indicate the shipment s relevance for customs.

Some embodiments provide shipment consolidation which allows processing of more than one outbound delivery as characterized by one or more delivery data objects e.g. delivery data object to create one trade system relevant billing document.

In some embodiments in the planning and or logistics system the invoice is created with input from the transportation management system . In some embodiments the invoice may comprise a report generated by retrieving data from a data source and processing it in accordance with a schema. The processing can specify consolidating deliveries by customer by shipment. In some embodiments this invoice may never be presented to the customer it is created to aid export compliance. Within the trade system it is a customs export document e.g. customs export document .

In some embodiments the at least one shipment data object is generated by a function residing in a separate plug in for GTS that facilitates integration of an SAP ERP system and an SAP TM system. The plug in may allow the ERP system to receive data a shipment s content. The ERP system can make use of its customer production and other data to create documents that can be consumed by GTS. A company s many outbound deliveries e.g. characterized by the outbound delivery data objects such as object from may be in one shipment. Each delivery may be related many to one to an invoice i.e. document created in the ERP system which related one to one a customs declaration i.e. document used in the GTS system . An invoicing system may query the ERP to create one invoice per customer. However the invoicing system may query the ERP and transport system to create one invoice per customer per shipment. In some embodiments the shipment information is retrieved via an API in the transport system e.g. SAP TM. GTS is fed these invoices thus being able to make a consolidated customs declaration for each shipment and customer automated shipment consolidation.

Referring to in accordance with some embodiments the apparatus includes a processor coupled to a communication device an input device an output device and a storage device .

In some embodiments the processor may execute processor executable program code to provide one or more portions of one or more functions and or one or more portions of one or more methods disclosed herein. In some embodiments the processor may comprise one or more INTEL Pentium processors.

The communication device may be used to facilitate communication with other devices and or systems. In some embodiments communication device may comprise an Ethernet and or other type of connection to a network and or resource and through which apparatus may receive and or transmit data.

The input device may be used to input data. In some embodiments the input device may comprise a keyboard a keypad a track ball a touchpad a mouse or other pointing device a microphone a knob or a switch an infra red IR port and or a computer media reader.

The output device may be used to output data. In some embodiments the output device may comprise an IR port a docking station a display a speaker and or a printer.

The storage device may store one or more programs and or other data for operation of the apparatus . In some embodiments the one or more programs and or other data may include one or more operating systems one or more database management systems and or other applications for operation of the apparatus . In some embodiments the one or more programs may include one or more instructions to be executed by the processor to provide one or more portions of one or more functions and or one or more portions of one or more methods disclosed herein. In some embodiments the one or more programs and or other data may include one or more databases .

In some embodiments the storage device may comprise one or more storage devices such as for example magnetic storage devices e.g. magnetic tape and or hard disk drives optical storage devices and or semiconductor memory devices such as Random Access Memory RAM devices and Read Only Memory ROM devices.

In some embodiments one or more portions of one or more embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied in a system a method an apparatus and or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may store thereon instructions that when executed by a processor or multiple processors result in performance of a process according to any of the embodiments described herein.

Unless stated otherwise terms such as for example comprises has includes and all forms thereof are considered open ended so as not to preclude additional elements and or features. In addition unless stated otherwise terms such as for example a one first are considered open ended and do not mean only a only one and only a first respectively. Moreover unless stated otherwise the term first does not by itself require that there also be a second .

In addition unless stated otherwise terms such as for example in response to and based on mean in response at least to and based at least on respectively so as not to preclude being responsive to and or based on more than one thing.

In addition unless stated otherwise data may comprise any type of information and may have and or be stored in any form. In some embodiments data may be stored in raw excerpted summarized and or analyzed form.

In addition unless stated otherwise a processor may comprise any type of processor. For example a processor may be programmable or non programmable general purpose or special purpose dedicated or non dedicated distributed or non distributed shared or not shared and or any combination thereof. A processor may include but is not limited to hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof. Hardware may include but is not limited to off the shelf integrated circuits custom integrated circuits and or any combination thereof. In some embodiments a processor comprises a microprocessor. Software may include but is not limited to instructions that are storable and or stored on a computer readable medium such as for example magnetic or optical disk magnetic or optical tape CD ROM DVD RAM EPROM ROM or other semiconductor memory. A processor may employ continuous signals periodically sampled signals and or any combination thereof. If a processor is distributed two or more portions of the processor may communicate with one another through a communication link.

In addition unless stated otherwise a communication link may be any type of communication link for example but not limited to wired e.g. conductors fiber optic cables or wireless e.g. acoustic links electromagnetic links or any combination thereof including for example but not limited to microwave links satellite links infrared links and or combinations thereof each of which may be public or private dedicated and or shared e.g. a network . A communication link may or may not be a permanent communication link. A communication link may support any type of data in any form for example but not limited to analog and or digital e.g. a sequence of binary values i.e. a bit string signal s in serial and or in parallel form. The data may or may not be divided into blocks. If divided into blocks the amount of data in a block may be predetermined or determined dynamically and or may be fixed e.g. uniform or variable. A communication link may employ a protocol or combination of protocols.

In addition unless stated otherwise a database may refer to one or more related or unrelated databases.

While various embodiments have been described such description should not be interpreted in a limiting sense. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be practiced without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as recited in the claims appended hereto.

