---

title: Laser system and method for performing and sealing corneal incisions in the eye
abstract: There is provided a system, apparatus and methods for developing laser systems that can create precise predetermined self-sealing incisions in the cornea. The systems, apparatus and methods further provide laser systems that can provide these incisions in conjunction with the removal and replacement of the natural human crystalline lens.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08758332&OS=08758332&RS=08758332
owner: LensAR, Inc.
number: 08758332
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100707
---
Applicants claim under 35 U.S.C. 119 e the benefit of priority of the filing date of Jul. 24 2009 of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 228 484 filed on the aforementioned date the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to methods and systems for improving procedures that address cataracts opacifications in the lens clear lens extraction removal of natural lens material use of lens replacement materials and combinations of these. Specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods that provide predetermined precise and reproducible laser shot patterns for creating incisions in the cornea and for sealing such incisions and which are made in predetermined and precise shapes that are reproducible from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon.

The established treatment for cataracts is the removal of the opacified human crystalline lens and its replacement with an intraocular lens IOL . In general IOLs consist of a small plastic lens with plastic side struts called haptics to hold the lens in place within the capsular bag inside the eye. Exemplary types of IOLs include monofocal lenses multifocal IOLs which provide the patient with multiple focused vision at far and reading distance and accommodative IOLs which provide the patient with visual accommodation. The flexible nature of many IOLs enables them to be rolled and or folded up for insertion into the capsule. Examples of IOL are found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 188 949 6 849 091 5 699 142 and 5 607 472 the entire disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Commercially available IOLs that by way of example may benefit from the present invention are CRYSTALENS and ACRYSOF RESTOR.

The CRYSTALENS IOL was developed by Eyeonics and is presently provided by Bausch Lomb and it is at least in part believed to be disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 091. Further information regarding its structure and efficacy is provided by Food and Drug Administration FDA PMA P030002 and related documents to that PMA file. The FDA approved indicated use for CRYSTALENS was in part The Crystalens Model AT 45 Accommodating IOL is intended for primary implantation in the capsular bar of the eye for visual correction of apkakia in adult patients in whom a cataractous lens has been removed and is intended to provide near intermediate and distance vision without spectacles. The Crystalens IOL provides approximately one diopter of monocular accommodation. Nov. 14 2003 PMA P030002 at Part 2 Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data INDICATIONS FOR USE .

Thus the CRYSTALENS is an example of an FDA approved accommodating IOL. The term FDA approved accommodating IOL refers to any IOL that has obtained FDA approval having an indicated use that provides for accommodation regardless of whether such IOL is actually being employed for such an approved use.

The ACRYSOF RESTOR IOL is provided by Alcon and it is at least in part believed to be disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 669 142. Further information regarding its structure and efficacy is provided by FDA PMA P040020 and related documents to that PMA file. The FDA approved use for RESTOR was in part AcrySOF ReSTOR IOLs are indicated for the visual correction of aphakia secondary to removal of a cataractous lens in adult patients with and without presbyopia who desire near intermediate and distance vision with increased spectacle independence. The lens is intended to be placed in the capsular bag. Apr. 24 2004 PMA P040020 at Part 2 Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data INDICATIONS .

Thus the RESTOR is an example of an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision. The term FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision refers to any IOL that has obtained FDA approval having an indicated use that provides for near intermediate and distance vision regardless of whether such IOL is actually being employed for such an approved use. The CRYSTALENS would also be an example of an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision. Moreover the RESTOR and CRYSTALENS are examples of an FDA approved IOLs that reduce and or eliminate the need for spectacles.

The removal of the natural crystalline lens and replacement with a lens replacement material employs the use of small initial incision or incisions in the limbal area of the eye which is the transition area between the cornea and sclera. This initial incision is typically made with a small triangular blade that is pushed into the limbal area of the eye. It is through this initial incision that other instruments for use in the removal and replacement of natural lens material are inserted and also it is through this incision that the natural lens material is removed from the eye and replacement lens material inserted into the eye.

Once the initial incision has been made the removal of the opacified natural crystalline lens and replacement with a lens replacement material such as an FDA approved IOL presently employs a capsulorhexis and or a capsulotomy. A capsulorhexis generally consists of the removal of a part of the anterior lens capsule and the creation of a hole or opening in the lens capsule that results from at least in part a tearing action. A capsulotomy generally consists of a cutting of the lens capsule without or with minimum tearing of the capsule. Thus to remove the opacified natural lens material the lens capsule is opened. There are several known techniques for performing a capsulorhexis and a capsulotomy. These would include the technique known as a can opener approach a Continuous Curvilinear Capsulorhexis CCC and the use of a Fugo plasma blade.

To date is it believed that all prior techniques and apparatus and in particular all prior FDA approved apparatus for creating the initial incision into the cornea of the eye have to varying degrees given rise to surgeon to surgeon and patient to patient irregularities. These irregularities have given rise to slower or less desirable wound healing and results. Moreover it is believed that all of these prior techniques and apparatus which are performed by hand in general can only produce cuts or holes that are essentially simple and planar in nature. Further because these are hand held devices the shape of these cuts may vary from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon. Thus it is not believed that these hand held devices and non automated techniques can provide the precise predetermined techniques and cuts of the present invention.

It is desirable to develop systems that would reduce eliminate or correct these undesirable features provide greater control in the creation of the incisions and make these improvements patient and surgeon independent or at least reduce the variability from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon associated with the formation of these undesirable features that is found with the use of present techniques and tools.

The novel and improved methods and systems for the performance of incisions in the sclera limbus and cornea which comprise aspects of the present inventions and which are set forth in detail in the present patent specification may provide for better implementation of other methods and systems for delivering laser beams to the lens of the eye such as those disclosed in published applications US 2007 173794A1 US 2007 173795A1 US 2007 185475A1 WO 2007 084694 A2 and WO 2007 084627A2 the entire disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention among other things solves this need by providing greater control in the creation of precise and predetermined incision to the sclera limbus and cornea. Thus there is provided herein a system and method to perform as disclosed and claimed here in.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize based on the teachings set forth in these specifications and drawings that there are various embodiments and implementations of these teachings to practice the present invention. Accordingly the embodiments in this summary are not meant to limit these teachings in any way.

In general the present inventions relate to methods and systems for providing a laser to the cornea of the eye to address improve and procedures relating to the removal of the natural crystalline lens and replacement of that lens with lens replacement material and more specifically to improvements in systems and methods related to cataract surgery. In particular the present inventions relate to methods and systems for providing self sealing incisions to the eye which incisions may be used as a way to insert instruments into the eye and to remove material from the eye and to provide increased healing of these particular incisions as well as other types of corneal incisions.

The present methods and systems described herein can be used with the novel and innovative laser system techniques that are the subject of the co pending patent applications that are cited herein and which have been incorporated herein by reference and the present methods and systems may possibly be used with other laser delivery systems for the removal of lens material to the extent such systems may be developed in the future. Preferably the present methods and systems can be incorporated into and used in conjunction with the systems of the co pending applications that have been incorporated herein by reference. In this way a single system with a single therapeutic laser can function as a start to finish device for performing the cuts necessary to remove and replace the natural lens.

Novel and pioneering laser systems and methods for the removal and replace of lens material are disclosed in regular and provisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61 228 506 Ser. No. 61 228 529 Ser. No. 61 228 514 Ser. No. 12 509 412 and Ser. No. 12 509 211 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Thus in general the present invention provides for a laser system i.e. a laser device for delivering a laser to the cornea of the eye. In general the laser system has a treatment or therapeutic laser optics for delivering the laser beam from the treatment laser to the eye and a particular pattern which provides for the placement of treatment laser shots in the cornea to create precise and predetermined incisions in that material which incisions are for the purpose of inserting instruments and material into and from the eye. The patterns and resultant incisions are made in general by creating a single cut having an anterior point or opening located at or near the limbus and a posterior point or opening located at or near Descemet s membrane which results in two sides or side pieces. It is theorized that each piece is shaped in a manner that provides for physical interaction between the pieces creating a locking and or tongue and groove effect. Additionally because the incisions of the present invention have a total length that is greater than a straight incision along the same general path i.e. from posterior opening to anterior opening and thus have greater surface area between the two sides it is theorized that this increased surface area promotes quicker healing. In this way after the incision is physically opened with instruments for the insertion and removal of material from the eye and in particular the natural lens of the eye upon removal of the instrument the incision will close and the physical shape of the sides of the incision will result in the self sealing of the incision.

Referring now to there is provided an example of a self sealing pattern and resultant incision of the present invention. Accordingly there is shown in a schematic representation the cornea the limbus and sclera . A shot pattern is provided which when delivered to the eye results in an incision of the same shape. The incision has two sides and . When viewed along the anterior to posterior axis of the incision axis arrow it is seen that the incision loops back on top of itself. Thus the incision crosses its anterior to posterior axis at least twice. This would be an example of a tongue and groove type of pattern. Further the angle of the cut with respect to the surface of the eye at the anterior point or opening of the cut resulting from pattern is very shallow i.e. it is less than 90 degrees preferably less than about 45 degrees and more preferably less than about 30 degrees. The angle of the cut with respect to the posterior surface of the cornea and in particular Descemet s membrane at the posterior point or opening of the cut resulting from pattern is about 90 degrees and more preferably about 75 degrees to about 105 degrees.

Referring now to there is provided an example of a self sealing pattern and resultant incision of the present invention. Accordingly there is shown in a schematic representation the cornea the limbus and sclera . A shot pattern is provided which when delivered to the eye results in an incision of the same shape. The incision has two sides and . When viewed along the anterior to posterior axis of the incision axis arrow it is seen that the incision loops back on top of itself. Thus the incision crosses its anterior to posterior axis at least three times. This would be an example of a tongue and groove type of pattern. If can further be seen that the side has a finger section extending into side . This finger section has a narrow portion and a wide portion . It can further be seen that the portion is wider than the narrow portion thus providing added locking force to this tongue and groove configuration.

Referring now to there is provided an example of a self sealing pattern and resultant incision of the present invention. Accordingly there is shown in a schematic representation the cornea the limbus and sclera . A shot pattern is provided which when delivered to the eye results in an incision of the same shape. The shot pattern has an anterior start point and a posterior end point which is located in Descemet s membrane. The length of the incision is substantially greater than the length of a straight line drawn between points and . The use of the terms start and end are solely for special identification purposes and are not intend to require that the cut be made from the anterior to the posterior. The incision has two sides and . When viewed along the anterior to posterior axis of the incision axis arrow it is seen that the incision loops back on top of itself. Thus the incision crosses its anterior to posterior axis at least three times. This would be an example of a tongue and groove type of pattern. If can further be seen that side has finger section and side has finger section and have finger section extending into side . Unlike finger section finger sections do not have narrow and wide portions.

In general a preferred laser system i.e. a laser device for treating patients is provided as shown by way of example in . In this system there is provided a treatment laser optics for delivering the laser beam a control system for delivering the laser beam to the lens in a particular pattern which control system is associated with and or interfaces with the other components of the system as shown for example by dashed lines in and or other control systems not shown in .

In general a laser system for providing the pattern and creating the resultant cuts in the cornea has by way of example and referring to a treatment laser which should provide a beam . The beam should be of a short pulse width together with the energy and beam size to produce photodisruption. Thus as used herein the term laser shot or shot refers to a laser beam pulse delivered to a location that results in photodisruption. As used herein the term photodisruption essentially refers to the conversion of matter to a gas by the laser. The term photodisruption has also been generally referred to as Laser Induced Optical Breakdown LIOB . In particular wavelengths of about 300 nm to 2500 nm may be employed. Pulse widths from about 1 femtosecond to 100 picoseconds may be employed. Energies from about a 1 nanojoule to 1 millijoule may be employed. The pulse rate also referred to as pulse repetition frequency PRF and pulses per second measured in Hertz may be from about 1 KHz to several GHz. Generally lower pulse rates correspond to higher pulse energy in commercial laser devices. A wide variety of laser types may be used to cause photodisruption of ocular tissues dependent upon pulse width and energy density. Thus examples of such lasers are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 084694 A2 and WO 2007 084627A2 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. These and other similar lasers may be used a therapeutic lasers. For procedures on the cornea limbus and area where the cornea and sclera join the same type of therapeutic laser as described herein may be used with the energy and focal point being selected to perform the desired procedure.

In general the optics for delivering the laser beam to the structures of the eye including the cornea and the natural lens of the eye should be capable of providing a series of shots in a precise and predetermined pattern in the x y and z dimension. The z dimension as used herein refers to that dimension which has an axis that corresponds to or is essentially parallel with the A P axis of the eye. The optics should also provide a predetermined beam spot size to cause photodisruption with the laser energy reaching the structure of the eye intended to be cut.

In general the control system for delivering the laser beam may be any computer controller and or software hardware combination that is capable of selecting and controlling x y z scanning parameters and laser firing. These components may typically be associated at least in part with circuit boards that interface to the x y scanner the z focusing device and or the laser. The control system may also but does not necessarily have the further capabilities of controlling the other components of the system as well as maintaining data obtaining data and performing calculations. Thus the control system may contain the programs that direct the laser through one or more laser shot patterns. Similarly the control system may be capable of processing data from the slit scanned laser and or from a separate controller for the slit scanned laser system.

The laser optics for delivering the laser beam includes a beam expander telescope a z focus mechanism a beam combiner an x y scanner and focusing optics . There is further provided relay optics camera optics which include a zoom and a first ccd camera .

Optical images of the eye and in particular optical images of the natural lens of the eye are conveyed along a path . This path follows the same path as the laser beam from the natural lens through the laser patient interface the focusing optics the x y scanner and the beam combiner . There is further provided a laser patient interface and a structured light source and a structured light camera including a lens. Examples of patient interface and related apparatus that are useful with the present system are provided in provisional and regular U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 509 021 and Ser. No. 61 228 457 wherein the entire disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The structured light source may be a slit illumination having focusing and structured light projection optics such as a Schafter Kirchhoff Laser Macro Line Generator Model 13LTM 90CM Type 13LTM 250S 41 90CM M60 780 5 Y03 C 6 or a StockerYale Model SNF 501 L 660 20 5 which is also referred to as a slit scanned laser. In this embodiment the structured illumination source also includes slit scanning means .

When using a scanned slit illumination the operation includes positioning the slit on one side of the lens taking an image then moving the slit approximately one slit width then taking another image and then repeating this sequence until the entire lens is observed. For example a 100 m slit width can scan a nominal 9 mm dilated pupil diameter in 90 images which takes approximately 3 seconds using a 30 Hz frame rate camera. To obtain images of the anterior surface in a single image without overlap the slit should be at an angle to the AP axis i.e. it should not be parallel to that axis. The nominal slit angle can be approximately 15 to 30 degrees from the AP axis. Any visible or near IR wavelength source within the sensitivity of the camera may be used. Low coherence length sources are preferable to reduce speckle noise.

The structured light illumination source and the structured light camera are arranged in an angled relationship. The angled relationship may be but is not required to be in the so called Scheimpflug configuration which is well known. The structured light source in conjunction with the slit scanning means projects a line and or a plurality of lines onto the eye lens at an angle or plurality of angles. The light scattered at the eye lens forms the object to be imaged by the lens and focused onto the camera system . Since the slit illuminated image in the eye lens may be at a large angle with respect to the camera this presents a large depth of field to the camera and the entire slit image may not be in sharp focus at the camera. By tilting the camera at an angle or plurality of angles the image along the illuminated plane can be in sharper focus. To the extent that a sharper focus is not obtained arithmetic data evaluation means are further provided herein to determine a more precise location of the illuminated structures with respect to the laser device.

The images from the camera may be conveyed to the controller for processing and further use in the operation of the system. They may also be sent to a separate processor and or controller which in turn communicates with the controller . The structured light source the camera and the slit scanning means includes a means for determining the position and apex of the lens in relation to the laser system.

The delivery of laser shot patterns and cuts per for the removal of lens material is provided. Thus there are provided methods and systems for producing cuts i.e. incisions in the anterior lens capsule. These cuts are created by the therapeutic laser beam being delivered to the anterior lens capsule in precise predetermined and highly reproducible patterns delivery results in precise predetermined and highly reproducible shaped cuts in patterns as described and taught herein or as may be called for by the use of a particular IOL or other device or material to be inserted within the lens capsule. As used herein geometric shaped patterns or cuts referrer to circular and elliptical shaped patterns or cuts. As used herein non geometric shaped patterns or cuts refers to all other shapes that are not circular or elliptical.

The methods and systems to create these cuts in the anterior capsule provide superior results to the handheld methods and apparatus previously known for performing capsulorhexus and capsulotomy and thus the methods and systems disclosed herein are considered to be a substantial advancement in these techniques. In addition the delivery of the laser beam shots in a manner that greatly reduces the risk of a missed cut which depending upon the particular application may be very significant is provided. Moreover as provided in the following examples anterior capsule cuts are envisioned and provided that may be a continuous cuts cuts and lands uncut capsule portions between cuts and perforations. Thus as used herein the terms missed cut or missed cuts refer to a cut that was intended to be carried out by the delivery of a particular laser shot pattern but which did not occur because the laser beam missed the lens capsule or targeted lens material. Thus in a cut and land pattern the lands would not be considered missed cuts if they were intended to be left uncut by the laser pattern.

The cuts in the lens anterior surface are for the purpose of creating an opening in the lens capsule for the remove of the interior structures of the lens. To facilitate this removal there are provided various laser shot patterns that cut the interior structure of the lens into small volumes which volumes can then be removed from the lens capsule. These small volumes can range from about 1 mmto about 16 mmand more preferably from about 2.5 mmto about 4 mm. Thus a grid laser shot pattern within the interior structures of the lens which creates cube shaped volumes of interior lens material can be employed. These cubes can range in size from a side having a length of about 100 m to about 4 mm with about 500 m to 2 mm being a preferred size. Additionally this invention is not limited to the formation of cubes and other volumetric shapes of similar general size may be employed. For example arrangement of other shapes such as triangles and pie sliced volumes may be employed.

The laser cut in the anterior capsule is used to create a small opening in the lens anterior surface of the lens capsule for removal of the sectioned volumes of interior material. Thus this procedure may be used to treat cataracts. This procedure may also be used to remove a lens having opacification that has not progressed to the point of being cataractous. This procedure may further be used to remove a natural lens that is clear but which has lost its ability to accommodate. In all of the above scenarios it being understood that upon removal of the lens material the lens capsule would subsequently house a suitable replacement such as an IOL accommodative IOL or synthetic lens refilling materials. Moreover the size and the shape of the opening is variable and precisely controlled and preferably for presently know lens refilling materials and IOLs is 2 mm or less diameter for lens refilling applications and about 5 mm for IOLs.

The order in which these activities are performed may depend upon the particular characteristics of the internal lens structure the density of the cataract the position of the cataract the type of device used to remove the internal lens material once it has been sectioned into small volumes the type and power of the laser used the amount and size of gas bubbles that are produced by the laser and other factors. Thus although the examples herein provide for an order of performing the activity of cutting the anterior surface of the lens and sectioning the interior structures of the lens it should be recognized that this order can be changed as well as performed essentially simultaneously or simultaneously.

The preferred laser system for treating patients is capable of making precise and predetermined cuts in the capsule of the lens thus giving rise to capsulotomies that are of precise and predetermined shapes. Thus there is provided the method of obtaining and analyzing the shape and structure of an IOL and in particular obtaining and analyzing the shape and structure of an accommodating IOL an IOL that reduces and or eliminates the need for spectacles and or an IOL for near intermediate and distance vision including but limited to FDA approved versions of the IOLs. Based upon this analysis an optimized shape and position for the capsulotomy for use with a particular IOL or grouping of similarly shaped IOLs is determined. A predetermined shot pattern for making this optimized shaped capsulotomy is then provided to the laser system preferably by providing the shot pattern to the control system . The laser system can then be used for an one or all of the following procedures determining the shape and position of the anterior surface of the lens and in particular the anterior surface of the lens capsule determining the apex of the lens capsule in relation to the laser system performing a laser capsulotomy having the precise and predetermined shape selected for a particular type of IOL and removal of the natural lens material.

Thus there is provided techniques systems and apparatus to deliver laser beam in a shot pattern to the lens of the eye and in particular to the capsule of the lens of the eye in a precise and predetermined manner to provided for a precise predetermined capsulotomy. The shape of these patterns may be delivered using either the jigsaw or ring delivery sequences.

When performing laser assisted cataract surgery the process of cutting the nucleus with a photodisruption laser can cause a buildup of gas bubbles sufficiently near the soft cortex to allow the gas bubbles to propagate toward the capsule. In those situations where bubbles collect in close proximity to the anterior capsule when the laser attempts to cut the capsulotomy the sudden release of bubbles my change the position of the anterior capsule during the delivery of the laser shot pattern causing the laser to miss the capsule resulting in missed cuts at least partially around the circumference of the capsulotomy. To solve this problem there is provided herein a special cutting pattern that is less dependent of capsule position versus time and provides cutting of the capsule despite position changes of the capsule during the laser capsulotomy procedure. Thus resulting in substantially reduced or no missed cuts.

There is further provided herein the use of laser shot patterns having a large range of Z swept at a high rate of speed while the X Y position is moved in a circular or elliptical or other pattern or desired shape more slowly so that the laser cutting action occurs multiple times over essentially the same X Y position. Thus it could be envisioned that the laser beam is operating like the tip of a jigsaw blade moving up and down rapidly compared to the X Y positioning to create the cut shape. In this way if the anterior capsule shifts during the cut due to gas bubble propagation or any other reason the cut will still be made to the capsule albeit perhaps outside the center region of the z direction up down distribution of shots and more to the anterior or posterior ends of that distribution. For laser cutting of the nucleus where a great deal of bubble buildup is created a Z range or up down range of the cut should be approximately 1 mm in extent nominally centered on the anterior capsule which would allow approximately 475 m of capsule movement and still provide cutting of a 25 m thick capsule.

In addition to enabling cutting of a capsule that moves during the procedure this procedure can be used to compensate for static errors in capsule position due to for example measurement errors. In this way the extent of the Z range may be increased by the known error of the system.

In addition to the large Z range sweeps disclosed herein there is also contemplated the use of a smaller Z range of cut motion for the case where the uncertainty in capsule position from both static measurement error and anticipated change in position might be smaller perhaps in the range of hundreds of m or in the case of highly precise measurement data and near zero movement of the capsule during surgery. In such a case the Z range could be tens of m enough range to cut through the capsule thickness.

Further methods and systems to define a high accuracy position measurement of structures of the eye and in particular the anterior capsule so as to provide in general greater accuracy precisions and reproducibility from patient to patient for procedures on the eye and in particular capsulotomies is provided in regular U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 509 412 wherein the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In the laser shot patterns provided herein it is preferred that the placement of individual shots with respect to adjacent shots in the pattern are sufficiently close enough to each other such that when the pattern is complete a sufficiently continuous layer and or line and or volume of material has been removed. Shot spacing of lesser or greater distances are contemplated herein and including overlap as necessary to obtain the desired results. Shot spacing considerations include gas bubble dissipation volume removal efficiency sequencing efficiency scanner performance and cleaving efficiency among others. For example by way of illustration for a 5 m size spot with an energy sufficient to cause photodisruption a spacing of 20 m or greater results in individual gas bubbles which are not coalesced and dissipate more quickly than with close shot spaces with the same energy which result in gas bubble coalescence. As the shot spacing gets closer together volume efficiency increases. As shot spacing gets closer together bubble coalescence also increases. Further there comes a point where the shot spacing becomes so close that volume efficiency dramatically decreases. Moreover the forgoing shot spacing considerations are interrelated to a lesser or greater extent and one of skill in the art will know how to evaluate these conditions based upon the teachings of the present disclosure to accomplish the objectives herein. Finally it is contemplated that the placement of individual shots with respect to adjacent shots in the pattern may in general be such that they are as close as possible typically limited by the size and time frame of photodisruption physics which would include among other things gas bubble expansion of the previous shot. As used herein the time frame of photodisruptive physics referrers to the effects that take place surrounding photodisruption such as plasma formation and expansion shock wave propagation and gas bubble expansion and contraction. Thus the timing of sequential pulses such that they are timed faster than some of elements of or all of those effects can increase volumetric removal and or cleaving efficiency. Accordingly it is proposed to use pulse repetition frequencies from 50 MHz to 5 GHz which could be accomplished by a laser with the following parameters a mode lock laser of cavity length from 3 meters to 3 cm. Such high PRF lasers can more easily produce multiple pulses overlapping a location allowing for a lower energy per pulse to achieve photodisruption.

The terms first second third etc. as used herein are relative terms and must be viewed in the context in which they are used. They do not relate to timing unless specifically referred to as such. Thus a first cut may be made after a second cut. In general it is preferred to fire laser shots in general from posterior points in the laser pattern to anterior points to avoid and or minimize the effect of the gas bubbles resulting from prior laser shots. However because of the varied laser shot patterns that are provided herein it is not a requirement that a strict posterior to anterior shot sequence be followed. Moreover in the case of cataracts it may be advantageous to shoot from anterior to posterior because of the inability of the laser to penetrate substantially beyond the cataract.

An additional benefit from this type of laser system may be obtained. Shots or pulses from this laser can be distributed throughout the cornea in a plane or series of planes that are perpendicular to the A P axis of the eye. These planes will cause a wound healing effect creating myacin. Additionally the creation of myacin will cause a cross linking of the cornea collagen which will have the tendency to shrink the area treated with the plane of shots which in turn tends to flatten the curvature of the cornea providing the added benefit of correcting low levels of myopia.

From the foregoing description one skilled in the art can readily ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof can make various changes and or modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions.

