---

title: Warhead selectively releasing fragments of varied sizes and shapes
abstract: A fragmentation warhead includes a cylindrical body, and an explosive charge disposed within the innermost part of the warhead body. Upon detonation of the explosive charge, the warhead body is ultimately caused to shear and break into fragments with controlled sizes, shapes. This invention enables target-adaptable fragmentation output based selectively controlling the size of preformed fragments ejected. Preformed tungsten alloy fragments of a first “small” size “A” are sintered to be joined into a plurality of larger size fragments “B”, using a tungsten alloy matrix. The B fragments are then joined into a desired shell shape and thickness and sintered into a fragmenting shell body using a different tungsten alloy matrix with bonds of melting point considerably lower than amongst the A fragment bonds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08061275&OS=08061275&RS=08061275
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08061275
owner_city: Washingon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100108
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

Warhead fragmentation effectiveness is determined by the number mass shape and velocity of the warhead s fragments. By using a controlled fragmentation design warhead fragmentation can generally be achieved quickly and in a cost effective manner. Exemplary controlled fragmentation techniques are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 491 694 4 312 274 4 745 864 5 131 329 and 5 337 673.

Conventional designs in general use include cutter liners that form fragments by generating a complex pattern of high velocity penetrators for fragmenting the shell. Although these conventional fragmentation designs have proven to be useful it would be desirable to present additional function cost and safety improvements that minimize the warhead weight reduce manufacture expenses and or advance current United States green and insensitive munition requirements.

Desirable therefore is a convenient less expensive shell fragmentation technique to selectively generate multiple sizes of fragments. It would also be desirable to be able to selectively generate variations in fragment numbers shapes and fragment patterns of exploding warheads.

The present invention satisfies these needs and presents a munition or warhead such as part of a projectile made with novel metallurgical configurations which can be used for generating diverse fragmentation patterns. Larger size fragments are selected for more heavily armored targets while smaller size fragments can be used for lightly armored or soft targets. This invention enables target adaptable fragmentation output based on means for selectively controlling the size of preformed fragments ejected. According to an embodiment of the invention preformed tungsten alloy fragments of a first small size A are sintered to be joined into a plurality of larger size fragments B using a tungsten alloy matrix Am. The B fragments are then sized to a desired shell shape and thickness and sintered into a fragmenting shell body using a tungsten alloy matrix Bm. The nature of the bonds between either A fragments or B fragments are such that the bonds are capable of being melted under intense heat. However the melting point of the bonds between B fragments are made to be considerably lower than the melting point amongst the A fragments. The bonds between B fragments are made with eutectic tungsten alloy to create a lower melting point than bonds between A fragments. According to an embodiment of this invention controlling the size of fragments ejected can be accomplished by selectively changing the matrix bonds Am and Bm through heating the fragmenting shell prior to detonation of the main explosive charge. This is because at the lower melting point for B bonds matrix bonds Am between fragments A may still remain intact. Though heated the temperature would be still less than the melting point for A bonds. Therefore such preheating favors formation of large size fragments B during detonation. According to an embodiment of this invention in large size fragment mode heat flux is directed towards melting of matrix Bm by first detonating a propellant termed a dual purpose propellant which is adjacent a steel pusher shell which is in turn adjacent the fragmentation shell body . The dual purpose propellant is located between a thermal insulation shell means and the steel pusher shell . Thermal insulation shell means might be made from a Kevlar filled EPDM rubber. Beyond the thermal insulation shell means lies another not yet detonated charge being called the main explosive charge . Deflagration of the dual purpose propellant generates strong heat flux into the fragmenting shell even through the steel pusher shell capable of melting matrix bonds B. A split second later after enough time is allowed to permit matrix bonds Bm to melt perhaps milliseconds the main charge explosive is then initiated by a mechanism not shown that permits this predetermined time delay between initiating the dual purpose propellant and then initiating the main explosive charge. Such later initiation of the main explosive charge would then result in large size fragments B being generated as the warmed up fragmentation shell body ruptures. For the small size fragment mode the main explosive charge is initiated first which in turn shock initiates the dual purpose propellant to detonate. As a result of such detonation of the dual purpose propellant adjacent the fragmentation shell small size fragments A are directly generated as the fragmentation shell body directly ruptures. It will be seen this scenario doesn t leave enough time for B bonds to first melt as in the large fragment generation scenario. The fragmentation shell body would just rupture into A size fragments. The purpose of steel pusher shell is to at least temporarily provide a more solid base from against which fragments and detonation products may be bounced propelled outward at their high pressure and high temperature as the fragmenting shell body breaks. Eventually even the pusher will disintegrate. The various shapes sizes numerical ratio and placement locations of the A and B type fragments in the fragmenting shell body may be varied to suit operational needs and packing ratios e.g. for instance fragments A may be chosen to simply be particles similar to dust which have been sintered together. In the small size fragment mode a dust like explosion of the fragmenting shell would result from such A type fragments.

This invention is distinguishable from existing fragmentation liner technologies that attempt to score or cut the warhead body instead during explosion of the warhead detonation shock waves propagated at the enclosed fragment locations generate contours of localized transitional regions with high gradients of pressures velocities strains and strain rates acting as stress and strain concentration factors. As a result the explosion produces a complex pattern of shear planes in the warhead body causing shell break up and release of fragments with predetermined sizes. One of the advantages of the present embodiment compared to existing technologies is the cost effectiveness of the manufacturing process of the present design in that it is faster and more economical to fabricate as opposed to notching or cutting a steel warhead body itself. In another variation of the invention dual purpose propellant is on the outside of fragmenting shell rather than on the inside of fragmenting shell as was in the version. Thermal shield as used in the version to divide between the dual purpose propellant and the main charge is therefore not needed in the version. On the exterior of dual purpose propellant there is a lightweight composite covering . Prior detonation of the dual purpose propellant on the outside of fragmenting shell in accomplishes the same purpose as in i.e. it melts the Bm bonds between large B size fragments then the main charge is detonated. It is also conceivable to destroy the Bm bonds between large B size fragments by first detonating exploding ink painted on the Bm bonds on the outside of fragmenting shell rather than detonation of the dual purpose propellant there such exploding ink is not painted over the Am bonds in such version then the main charge is detonated. This invention has application to the 105 mm STAR ATO round and also to multifunctional airburst hardened penetrator anti personnel anti materiel insensitive munitions and insensitive blast warheads. This product is considered to be more green because tungsten is largely used to replace other metals such as lead which may be considered more toxic. The more green tungsten material is consistent with current green goals and government requirements for minimizing toxicity.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide means for generating fragments upon detonation of a warhead with a relatively less expensive to manufacture structure of tungsten alloy fragments and 

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a fragmentation warhead which generates fragments upon detonation wherein the size and shape of such fragments may be selected through selective detonation of the warhead material and 

It is a yet another object of the present invention to provide a fragmentation warhead of materials additionally chosen for green value i.e. less toxicity.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention and in light of the following drawings in which 

The body encloses a multiplicity of tungsten alloy fragments see of select sizes and shapes and green is used in the sense of using less toxic tungsten as material rather than for instance a more toxic lead material. A selectively controlled pattern of fragments can comprise sections of equal size or alternatively sections ranging in size from relatively large to smaller fragments. The larger size of the fragments is selected for more heavily armored targets while the smaller size of fragments is applicable for lightly armored or soft targets. Consequently the pattern efficiently enables variable target lethality of the warhead that can range from maximum lethality for more heavily armored targets to a maximum lethality for lightly armored or soft targets. Shapes of individual fragments can be widely varied dust particles spheres ellipsoids cylinders pyramids cubes parallelepipeds curved external shapes shards diamond shaped or truncated versions of any of the above for instance . Size of individual fragments and orientation of the fragments turned such as 90 degrees from one another e.g. can all be individually selected to advantage in designing the ultimate warhead fragments. According to an embodiment of the invention illustrated by this invention enables target adaptable fragmentation output based on means for selectively controlling the size of preformed fragments ejected. According to an embodiment of the invention preformed tungsten alloy fragments of a first small size A are sintered to be joined into a plurality of larger size fragments B using a tungsten alloy matrix Am . The B fragments are then sized to a desired shell shape and thickness and sintered into a fragmenting shell body using a tungsten alloy matrix Bm . The nature of the bonds between either A fragments or B fragments are such that the bonds are capable of being melted under intense heat. However the melting point of the bonds between B fragments are made to be considerably lower than the melting point amongst the A fragments. The bonds between B fragments are made with eutectic tungsten alloy to create a lower melting point than bonds between A fragments. According to an embodiment of this invention controlling the size of fragments ejected can be accomplished by selectively changing the matrix bonds Am and Bm through heating the fragmenting shell prior to detonation of the main explosive charge. This is because at the lower melting point for B bonds matrix bonds Am between fragments A may still remain intact. Though heated the temperature would be still less than the melting point for A bonds. Therefore such preheating favors formation of large size fragments B during detonation. According to an embodiment of this invention in large size fragment mode heat flux is directed towards melting of matrix Bm by first detonating a propellant termed a dual purpose propellant which is adjacent a steel pusher shell which is in turn adjacent the fragmentation shell body . The dual purpose propellant is located between a thermal insulation shell means and the steel pusher shell . Thermal insulation shell means might be made from a Kevlar filled EPDM rubber. Beyond the thermal insulation shell means lies another not yet detonated charge being called the main explosive charge . Deflagration of the dual purpose propellant generates strong heat flux into the fragmenting shell even through the steel pusher shell capable of melting matrix bonds Bm. A split second later after enough time is allowed to permit matrix bonds Bm to melt perhaps milliseconds the main charge explosive is then initiated by a mechanism not shown that permits this predetermined time delay between initiating the dual purpose propellant and then initiating the main explosive charge . Such later initiation of the main explosive charge would then result in large size fragments B being generated as the warmed up fragmentation shell body ruptures. For the small size fragment mode the main explosive charge is initiated first which in turn shock initiates the dual purpose propellant to detonate. As a result of such detonation of the dual purpose propellant adjacent the fragmentation shell small size fragments A are directly generated as the fragmentation shell body directly ruptures. It will be seen this scenario doesn t leave enough time for Bm bonds to first melt as was the case in the large fragment generation scenario. The fragmentation shell body would just rupture into small A size fragments. The purpose of steel pusher shell is to at least temporarily provide a more solid base from against which fragments and detonation products may be bounced propelled outward at their high pressure and high temperature as the fragmenting shell body breaks. Eventually even the pusher shell will disintegrate. The various shapes sizes numerical ratio and placement locations of the A and B type fragments in the fragmenting shell body may be varied to suit operational needs and packing ratios e.g. for instance fragments A may be chosen to simply be particles similar to dust which have been sintered together. In the small size fragment mode a dust like explosion of the fragmenting shell would result from such A type fragments.

In another variation of the invention dual purpose propellant is on the outside of fragmenting shell rather than on the inside of fragmenting shell as was in the version. Thermal shield as used in the version to divide between the dual purpose propellant and the main charge is therefore not needed in the version. On the exterior of dual purpose propellant there is a lightweight composite covering . Prior detonation of the dual purpose propellant on the outside of fragmenting shell in accomplishes the same purpose as in i.e. it melts the Bm bonds between large B size fragments then the main charge is detonated. It is also conceivable to destroy the Bm bonds between large B size fragments by first detonating exploding ink painted on the Bm bonds on the outside of fragmenting shell rather than detonation of the dual purpose propellant there such exploding ink is not painted over the Am bonds in such version then the main charge is detonated.

This invention has application to the 105 mm STAR ATO round and also to multifunctional airburst hardened penetrator anti personnel anti materiel insensitive munitions and insensitive blast warheads.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

