---

title: Indexed payment stream system and method
abstract: Provided is a computer-implemented method for providing a common index securities fund that provides liquidity in a plurality of small business borrowers in a defined class. The method comprises providing a pool of cash from a lender to the fund; generating loans from the fund to borrowers; depositing the loans in interest-bearing accounts; providing interest from the interest bearing accounts to the lender and the borrowers; and, upon withdrawal of the loans from the interest-bearing accounts, repaying the loans to the lender and commencing a payment stream by each borrower to the fund, including adjusting one or more payments in the payment stream using an index having a value relationship to the class.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346654&OS=08346654&RS=08346654
owner: Market Shield Capital, LLC
number: 08346654
owner_city: Natick
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100115
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from commonly owned U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 144 935 entitled INDEXED PAYMENT STREAM SYSTEM AND METHOD filed Jan. 15 2009 this application is a continuation in part of co pending commonly owned U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 11 553 150 entitled COMMON INDEX SECURITIES filed Oct. 26 2006 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 794 465 filed Mar. 5 2004 entitled COMMON INDEX SECURITIES now U.S. Pat. No. 7 155 468 which claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 453 075 entitled SMALL BUSINESS LIQUID SECURITIES filed Mar. 7 2003 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present inventive concepts generally relate to systems and methods for electronically processing and transforming information in the field of finance and particularly to systems useful for providing liquidity to one or more entities in exchange for one or more payments by the one or more entities that are indexed to the fortunes of the one or more entities or a class to which the one or more entities belong.

Presently there are very limited approaches for providing upfront liquidity e.g. cash to a borrower in exchange for a subsequent payment stream obligation. Typical approaches include loans that have fixed or variable rate interest ultimately related to other floating interest rates such as LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate which is the rate banks usually charge each other for loans.

Using these approaches a borrower receives liquidity in the form of a loan and commits to repaying the loan based on the interest rate. Since the interest rate whether fixed or variable has little or no relationship to the borrowers fortunes there is an inherent and unaccounted for risk that changes in the borrower s fortunes will lead to default where the principal will never be completely repaid. This risk is particularly high when the borrower belongs to a class of borrowers in jeopardy of adverse economic changes whether short or long term. Of course this is a risk to the borrower as well. Therefore a major component of this risk is the fact that the borrower s payment obligation is not particularly related to the fortunes of the borrower e.g. the borrower s ability to generate revenue or income.

As has been shown by recent financial crises general economic downturns can increase the strain on borrowers and ultimately lead to defaults. Borrowers and lenders may each be relatively unprotected in such situations using typical lending approaches. Borrowers gradually see their cash holdings and incomes decline with no systematic adjustments responsive to the new economic circumstances.

Systems and methods that enable borrowers to obtain liquidity with minimal risk to lenders as well as diminished risk to borrowers could provide substantial advantages over typical approaches to providing liquidity.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure provided is a computer implemented method for providing a common index securities fund that provides liquidity in a plurality of small business borrowers in a defined class. The method comprises providing a pool of cash from a lender to the fund generating loans from the fund to borrowers depositing the loans in interest bearing accounts providing interest from the interest bearing accounts to the lender and the borrowers and upon withdrawal of the loans from the interest bearing account repaying the loans to the lender and commencing a set of one or more payments by each borrower to the fund related to an index having a value relationship to the class.

The method can include offering at least some of the shares for trading via an exchange managed by a trading system.

The fund can be managed by a fund processor configured to store and manage financial information for the fund including adjusting payment streams in response to changes in the index.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention provided is a computer implemented method for providing a fund that provides liquidity in a plurality of borrowers in a defined class. The method includes providing a computer system having a computer processor coupled to a data storage device the computer system configured to exchange data with external systems via a computer network. The method also includes in the data storage device defining a fund identification ID and a cash value representing a fund pool of cash from at least one lender generating a loan from the fund pool of cash to a borrower from the plurality of borrowers including storing in the data storage device a loan principal and loan term in association with the borrower depositing the loan principal in an interest bearing account and electronically calculating interest for a time period not greater than the loan term electronically proportioning the interest and distributing a first interest portion to a lender account and a second interest portion to a borrower account electronically calculating an accumulated interest amount for the loan for the time period based on the loan principal and calculating a payment stream for the borrower from the accumulated interest amount and from an index that represents value based performance of the class.

The method can further include processing a borrower payment from the payment stream by transforming digital accumulated interest payment information into an electronic payment value and reducing the accumulated interest amount by the payment value.

The class can include or be residential real estate and the plurality of borrowers can be or include individual home owners.

The method can further include electronically generating the index from data received via the network from at least one external source.

The index can be an effective index that is a multiple of a base index wherein the multiple is greater than 1.

The method can further include offering at least some of the shares for trading via an exchange managed by a trading system.

The method can further include electronically distributing a third portion of the interest to a fund account.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention provided is a fund management system configured to provide liquidity in a plurality of borrowers in a defined class. The system includes at least one computer processor coupled to at least one data storage device and is configured to exchange data with external systems via a computer network. The computer system further comprises a fund manager adapted to store a fund identification ID and a cash value representing a fund pool of cash from at least one lender an account manager adapted to generate a loan from the fund pool of cash to a borrower from the plurality of borrowers wherein the account manager stores a loan principal and loan term in association with the borrower the fund manager is also adapted to determine interest of an interest bearing account into which the loan principal has been deposited the fund manager is also adapted to determine a proportioning of the interest wherein for a time period not greater than the loan term a first interest portion is distributed to a lender account and a second interest portion is distributed to a borrower account an interest accumulator adapted to electronically calculate an accumulated interest amount for the loan for the time period based on the loan principal and a payment adjuster adapted to calculate a payment stream for the borrower from the accumulated interest amount and from an index that represents value based performance of the class.

The payment adjuster can also be adapted to process a borrower payment from the payment stream by transforming digital accumulated interest payment information into an electronic payment value and reducing the accumulated interest amount by the payment value.

The interest accumulator can also be adapted to calculate the accumulated interest amount using the index.

The class can include residential real estate and the plurality of borrowers can include individual home owners.

The system can further comprise an index monitor adapted to electronically generate the index from data received via the network from at least one external source.

The index monitor can also be adapted to generate the index as an effective index that is a multiple of a base index wherein the multiple is greater than 1.

The system can further comprise a trading module adapted to electronically issue shares as claims against the fund.

The trade module can also be configured to electronically communicate with a trading system that offers at least some of the shares for trading via an exchange.

The fund manager can also be adapted to determine a third portion of the interest and to electronically distribute the third portion of the interest to a fund account.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention provided is a computer implemented method for providing a fund that provides liquidity in a plurality of borrowers in a defined class. The method comprises providing a computer system having a computer processor coupled to at least one data storage device the computer system configured to exchange data with external systems via a computer network. The method also comprises using the computer system defining a fund having a cash value representing a fund pool of cash from at least one lender generating a loan from the fund pool of cash to a borrower from the plurality of borrowers including defining a loan principal depositing the loan principal in an interest bearing account proportioning interest from the interest bearing account into a first interest portion for a lender and a second interest portion for the borrower calculating an accumulated interest amount for the loan based on the loan principal and a duration of the loan and calculating a payment stream for the borrower from the accumulated interest amount and from an index that represents value based performance of the class.

The class can include residential real estate and the plurality of borrowers can include individual home owners.

The method can further include electronically generating the index from data received via the network from at least one external source.

The index can be an effective index that is a multiple of a base index wherein the multiple is greater than 1.

The method can further include offering at least some of the shares for electronic trading via an exchange managed by a trading system.

The method can further include electronically distributing a third portion of the interest to a fund account.

Hereinafter aspects of the present invention will be described by explaining illustrative embodiments in accordance therewith with reference to the attached drawings. While describing these embodiments detailed descriptions of well known items functions or configurations are typically omitted for conciseness.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. are be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

A common index fund system and method are provided which include or use a network of specially configured computing devices. The common index securities system and method could be implemented as a small business liquid security SBLS system and method that enables investment in one or more small businesses or entities relatively easily. An SBLS system in accordance with this embodiment can enable the creation issuance trading and management of SBLS shares as an ordinary liquid equity investment tradable on a stock exchange like shares of any publicly traded company. Since an SBLS fund is a form of a common index fund payments made be each small business to the fund and any other entity represented in the fund are indexed to at least one index representing or related to the value performance revenues and or profits of the small businesses or assets held by the small business . An industry wide performance index is one example of such an index. A local or regional industry based index is another example. The index can be any of a variety of indexes so long as it is related to or representative of the fortunes of the small businesses. SBLS shares may be traded publicly privately or some combination thereof or not at all.

Entities that participate in the fund can include small businesses where a small business may a business defined by certain agencies or governmental regulations as a small business based on criteria relating to the size of the business such as its number of employees gross revenue and so on. The phrase small business as used herein can also include other businesses or entities not traded or traditionally tradable as a liquid security such as 1 any entity that is generally considered by the financial community as not suitable for an initial public offering IPO or public trading 2 any entity that was once publicly traded but has since been delisted 3 a subsidiary affiliate of a business even if that business is traded publicly or privately or 4 any other entity not publicly traded regardless of size or profitability 5 a source of income flowing from one or more individuals or entities 6 a partnership or joint venture 7 a university or not for profit organization 8 an individual or group of individuals and or 9 the owner holder of assets having a market value or 10 any combination of the foregoing. As examples a start up company educational institution not for profit or charitable institution or individual e.g. a home owner or other property owner or group of individuals may each be a small business within the context of the present invention. A fund in accordance with the present invention may represent any of the foregoing and can also include one or more businesses having stock that is publicly traded or tradable i.e. not small businesses .

The fund can be formed as any type of traditional fund or can take other forms such as a bank or other entity with an available pool of cash. The fund can represent entities from one or more defined classes. The classes could be industry based such as a defined class for oil companies hotels apartment buildings commercial real estate as just a few examples or residential property or home owners as other examples. As another example a class can represent a certain sector or a limited number of sectors of an industry e.g. Class A office space in downtown Boston Mass. And changes in an index associated with the fund could represent in whole or in part market values performance and or earnings profits or revenues associated with that industry sector or sectors or industries or sectors that are related thereto.

A fund may specialize in a particular industry sector or sub sector collectively Sector or borrower type shown as Sector A in as a predefined class. The Sector may be narrowed by having a sub sector focus such as a geographical focus based on a country region or several countries. The SBLS fund may be created and managed as shown by arrow by a fund manager or fund management system . The fund manager can issue shares against the SBLS fund . Shares can be offered publicly e.g. on an exchange offered privately or not offered at all. That is the shares need not ever be offered for trade or listed on an exchange.

The SBLS fund manager could form relationships with one or more businesses or companies e.g. businesses A A . . . An in at least one class or sector of interest e.g. Sector A to form SBLS fund including at least one small business. The SBLS fund manager could reach individual business owners through alliances with commercial banks brokerage firms leasing companies franchise companies or other sources of commercial loans. Such distribution networking and solicitation may be accomplished electronically via the SBLS computer architecture shown in by more traditional means or by some combination thereof.

The fund manager provides upfront liquidity to each business in the form of cash marketable securities or both as indicated by arrow . Additionally or alternatively one or more business could receive shares in the SBLS fund which may later become liquid and or begin paying distributions. Such businesses could receive SBLS shares whether marketable or not received by the fund manager via arrow . The fund manager may also obtain shares for itself as indicated by arrow . The subset of shares is determined by allocating a number of shares to a company e.g. A based on that company s buy in and then applying left over amounts from the buy in to purchase shares for the fund manager .

In return for the upfront liquidity provided by the SBLS fund to the companies via arrow the SBLS fund receives subsequent payments from the businesses . The subsequent payments may take the form of an ongoing payment stream or a limited number of payments from the businesses also indicated by arrows . At least one payment or payment obligation in the payment stream owed by each business is subject to change according to changes in an index corresponding to the class or industry sector .

In the preferred form the payment stream owed by each business A A . . . An would decline in negative economic circumstances and rise in positive economic circumstances because the index would decline in negative circumstance and rise in positive economic circumstances. But there may be embodiments where a reciprocal relationship can be implemented. In some embodiments a lower cap an upper cap or both could be applied to the payment stream.

Since the businesses can receive shares of the SBLS fund a business A can also be an investor e.g. investor I. If the SBLS shares are traded then others can also invest. Regardless SBLS fund investors e.g. investors I I . . . In receive earnings that change in proportion to changes in the index because each entity s payments are tied to the index. As mentioned above index may be an index for the overall industry sector or sectors comprising the businesses . Because the fund s performance is indexed to the industry rather than the individual businesses performance the investors are not exposed to individual business mismanagement fraud or other idiosyncratic risk aside from outright bankruptcy of individual businesses in the SBLS fund . Accordingly the value of the fund and that of the fund s shares and any dividends paid out are not relative to any individual business earnings revenues expenses cash flow or other performance or condition measure. To mitigate bankruptcy risk for example a guarantor not shown may be included in the system of or to back up the obligations of the companies represented by the fund.

In the small business embodiment the small business owner can go public with a portion of its shares and receive close to a publicly traded level of price to earnings PE ratios while the party that issues the SBLS shares can also realize a profit from the remaining portion of the arbitrage between private business PE ratios and those for publicly traded companies as explained in greater detail below. Even when there are no small businesses represented by the fund the same benefits are available to other types of entities and may be preferred to going public even if available to such an entity. Of course an entity could be publicly traded and also be represented in a common index fund.

The value of the fund thus the value of the fund shares is based on the payments made to the fund by the companies represented in the fund which is a function of the index. The index may be a published index for the industry sector if such an index exists or it could be an index derived from one or more of other relevant parameters for example 1 the performance of a set of companies that is representative of the businesses in the fund or an industry associated with the fund 2 one or more composite indices 3 performance information related to companies within the fund e.g. earnings debt or the sector or sectors 4 generally available economic or financial indicators or rates e.g. LIBOR prime interest rate unemployment commodity prices or cost of living or 5 information of tangential or complimentary activity. In short there is no particular constraint placed on the one or more indices used other than they provide some meaningful value relationship to the fund or businesses represented by the fund. Among other things the index or indices used may be geographically regionally politically or nationally oriented.

As will happen from time to time a business e.g. business A may be acquired. In such a case and if the fund is structured to permit it the rights and obligations of acquired business A can transfer to the new owner of the business A. Subsequently A and its new owner could be released from the fund if it resolves its payment stream obligations. It could also sell back its shares or continue to hold them. Such provisions are preferably established at fund formation. Otherwise such an acquisition could force a mandatory elimination or buy out of A from the SBLS fund which could carry a penalty. During the term a business may wish to pull out of the fund for other reasons e.g. to go public on its own . A similar buy out may be allowed in such cases.

In some forms more than one industry or class may be represented in a SBLS fund as is shown in . As an example an SBLS fund could represent two industry sectors A and B having significantly different volatility. In such a case the SBLS fund would not only be a composite of several companies but also of several sectors or classes offering to investors a risk reward opportunity that is a hybrid of the two. The risk reward could be weighted according to the representation of each sector in the SBLS fund . For some investors this hybrid SBLS fund could provide a more attractive risk reward than any one industry represented in the SBLS fund could offer by itself.

Otherwise the SBLS fund functions similar that of the SBLS fund of . That is SBLS shares are issued against the SBLS fund by the SBLS fund manager or management system . Because the payments made by the companies in the fund are tied to an index the value the fund and the SBLS shares and thus any related payouts to investor share holders fluctuates in response to index . Index may comprise one or more indices derived from or related to Sectors A and B. The payouts could also be made as a function of a blend of the index and profits of the businesses or other applicable or predetermined revenue sources or parameters.

The companies from these sectors buy in and receive upfront liquid assets such as cash marketable securities or both indicated by arrows . The businesses could receive SBLS shares via fund manager also indicated by arrow which need not necessarily be liquid. The fund manager may obtain these SBLS shares from the SBLS fund as indicated by arrow . In exchange for the upfront liquidity or other assets the businesses agree to make subsequent payments to the fund e.g. regular payments based on earnings. The amount of the payments is preferably adjusted according to index which may be any type of index described herein but having a relationship to the businesses represented in the fund. Therefore a rise in the index for the industry or industries or their sectors causes a corresponding rise in the payments to be made by the companies . A corresponding arrangement for payments to decrease in response to a lower than expected index could also be accommodated. In any event a rise in the companies payments causes a corresponding rise in the value of the fund and thus the fund s shares.

The fund manager may also receive a subset of SBLS shares indicated by arrow . The subset of shares is determined by allocating a number of shares to a company e.g. company B based on that company s buy in and then applying left over amounts from the buy in to purchase shares for the fund manager . The SBLS fund s investors purchase shares from the fund e.g. publicly through an exchange or privately. Again some or all of these investors may be the businesses represented in the SBLS fund . The value of the fund thus the values of the fund shares is based on the payments made to the fund along with other market factors which is based on or related to the index . In lieu of or in addition to receiving shares the fund manager may receive compensation in other forms e.g. a portion of the payments made by companies .

This example demonstrates the single sector SBLS fund but those skilled in the art can easily extrapolate from this example to functioning in a multi sector SBLS fund. Among the benefits to the SBLS companies including e.g. at least one small business is up front liquidity as mentioned. Another benefit of the underlying structure of the relationship between the SBLS companies and the SBLS fund is to allow the SBLS fund to share in the financial performance of the business Sector A through payments by individual SBLS companies in the chosen sector and enable fair and attractive tax treatment between the two entities i.e. SBLS fund and the SBLS companies in the fund. In the hybrid or multi sector SBLS fund these benefits may be applied to several sectors represented within a single hybrid SBLS fund.

To accomplish these goals the structure may be debt with some equity like aspects or it could be all equity in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. One exemplary structure is 

As an example a new SBLS fund may be formed of SBLS companies that are in the business of delivering home heating oil. Therefore Sector A represents the home heating oil sector. Individual companies can be approached by commercial banks that make an introduction to the fund managers with whom they do business. The companies are screened and the selected SBLS companies are offered the opportunity to receive SBLS fund shares in return for paying in up to 20 of their current profits indexed to a home heating oil delivery company earnings index .

For example if a particular company A earns 1 million per year it could begin by committing to pay in 200 000 per year see arrow . A buy in ratio is initially set by the fund creator manager to 15 so A s payment is deemed to be worth 3 million in shares at market value. In this example each share in the SBLS fund is initially set to earn 1 per year and the expected trading price of the shares is 20 because the PE is expected to be 20. The PE ratio e.g. 20 earning per share e.g. 1 and buy in ratio e.g. 15 are all determined initially. As with other securities the PE ratio and earnings per share are subject to ongoing change. Additionally it is not necessary that all shares are issued to an SBLS company at buy in the number of shares could be allowed to float with the performance of the SBLS fund .

The earnings per share is a relatively arbitrary figure that need not have any relationship to the sector. Although the PE ratio may be based on historical performance of the given sector e.g. a PE of 20 may be about the average for companies in the sector. The buy in ratio is set by the SBLS fund manager to provide an attractive opportunity to the SBLS companies while also making the opportunity attractive for the SBLS fund manager .

In this exemplary scenario therefore the SBLS company A would receive 150 000 shares e.g. 3M 20 per share. In this embodiment this follows the general equation PAYMENT BI RATIO PE SHARES TO COMPANY 200k 15 20 150k shares

However the 200 000 buy in paid by SBLS company A enables the creation of a total of 200 000 shares each with earnings initially set at 1. Therefore there are an additional 50 000 shares determined by the equation PAYMENT SHARE EARNING SHARES TO COMPANY SHARES TO FUND MGR 200K 1 share 150 000 shares 50k shares

Variations on the above approach may also be accommodated. The myriad variations possible include adjusting any of the structure parameters used in the example above as would be appreciated by those skilled in the investment or financial arts. For example some possible variations include 

A common index securities or SBLS system may be embodied in a network of computer systems and or devices which exchange information and data over one or more networks. The SBLS system requires that one or more of such computer systems and or devices be specially configured and interconnected to achieve the various functions transformations communications and technical relationships required to achieve a common index securities or SBLS system and method in accordance with aspects of the present invention.

In this case fund management system provides the overall administration of the SBLS fund which may include creating the SBLS fund and establishing all of the relevant parameters and selection of the SBLS companies A A . . . An and interaction with their associated systems processing the buy ins and distributions with the SBLS companies and interaction with exchange system for offering trading and redeeming the SBLS shares if required. Investors I I . . . In using investor systems may access the exchange system for the trading and redeeming of shares . The SBLS companies represented in the SBLS fund may also be considered investors. At least one of the fund management system or exchange system can communicate with index systems to obtain the index or information useful for generating the index . The fund management system can adjust the value of the payments by SBLS companies using the index . The value of the SBLS fund can also be adjusted accordingly in response to changes in the index .

The actual platforms used in the SBLS system can include main frame computers Web and application servers personal computers workstations personal digital assistants PDAs cell phones pagers e mail devices and other handheld devices and so on. Any of the foregoing may output information by computer display printer electronic communication and so on. Any of the foregoing may receive information via keyboard scanner electronic communication and so on. As examples handheld devices may be used to collect or input data and or to calculate the indexes and optical character reader OCR devices and or special scanners may be used to collect or input data.

Within the SBLS system the various platforms devices and or subsystems may process store operate on present or communicate SBLS related data and execute SBLS functionality. Communications among the foregoing may be by wired or wireless communications systems or subsystems or some combination thereof. Data may be pushed to or pulled from the various systems and subsystem described herein. Networks can include local area networks wide area networks virtual private networks the Internet the Web or any other known or later developed network or combination thereof.

Functionality of the systems subsystems and modules described herein may be embodied in software hardware firmware or some combination thereof. To the extent functionality is embodied in software it may be embodied in program code stored in memory and executed by one or more processors. The program code and related data may be stored in any known form of computer storage device or system. The functionality and data may be co located or distributed among a plurality of systems subsystems and or modules.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided a system and method for creation and management of a common index securities or SBLS fund that borrows money from a lender or investor s and loans it out to borrowers e.g. small businesses such as individuals . The monies loaned to the borrowers are deposited in an interest bearing account or vehicle e.g. a CD . A portion of the interest goes back to the lender and a portion of the interest goes to the borrower and or another party on behalf of the borrower. The principal loan is paid back to the lender and the borrower pays an amount indexed to accumulated in interest bearing account to the lender. A portion of the interest could also go to the fund. After termination of the interest bearing account e.g. repayment or withdrawal of the deposited loan amount the principal is paid back to the lender and the borrower pays the fund an amount indexed to the fortunes of the borrower.

In this embodiment a Lender provides cash to a Fund indicated as . Fund in turn makes loans to various Borrowers indicated as Loan . In this embodiment the principal loan amount for each Borrower is deposited in an interest bearing account e.g. used to purchase a CD at a Bank as demonstrated by the line marked Loan that passes through the Borrower to Bank . The principal could pass directly from the Fund to the Bank on behalf of the Borrower or the principal could pass directly from the Lender to the Bank on behalf of the Borrower or Fund under management of the Fund .

The Bank with which the principal is deposited can be the Lender in some embodiments despite that the two are shown as separate entities in . This could reduce risk for the Lender . However the Bank and Lender do not need to be the same entity in all embodiments. And in some embodiments the Fund can take cash from more than one Lender and different Borrowers could deposit their respective principal loan amounts in different Banks or in the same Bank .

In some embodiments the interest bearing accounts can be backed by a surety or guarantor referred to as Surety in . For instance the interest bearing account can be an FDIC insured account backed by the U.S. Government. This way big lenders can get the benefit of the FDIC insurance and the higher yield of a bank account as compared to a U.S. Treasury note while still getting an investment backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government. In other embodiments a Surety need no be included for one or more of the interest bearing accounts.

In this embodiment there are three phases. A first phase begins when the Borrower gets a loan and the principal is deposited in the interest bearing account at Bank . The first phase ends when the interest bearing account begins to earn and payout interest. The second phase ends and the third phase begins when the principal is paid back to the Lender or otherwise withdrawn from bank . In the third phase the Borrower and Fund remain with the Borrower making indexed payments to the Fund .

During the second phase while the money is in the interest bearing account with Bank the interest generated from that account is distributed. Some of the interest goes to the Lender as P and some of the interest goes to the Borrower as P and or to a third party to address a debt obligation of the Borrower e.g. a credit card company. Some of the interest can also go to the Fund as P .

Banks typically lend to each other at a standard rate e.g. LIBOR. The interest P that is paid to Lender can be set at that standard rate in the preferred embodiment. However in other embodiments a different rate could be set. The rate of the interest bearing account at Bank is greater than the standard rate paid to the Lender . Therefore the interest earned by the interest bearing account is greater than the interest payment P paid to the Lender .

As an example if LIBOR is 0.40 and the interest bearing account is a CD paying 2.75 the Lender can be paid 0.40 P the Borrower can receive 1.75 P and the Fund can receive 0.60 P in the second phase.

These three interest cash flows P P could be paid directly by the Bank to each party go through Fund or go through the Lender . If the Borrower uses some or all of its interest to pay its debt with a third party then its payments can be made directly to the third party. In the preferred embodiment one or more of these payments are made electronically.

The third phase is commenced when the principal in the bank account is withdrawn. At this time the principal can be repaid to the Lender indicated by dashed line P. But in other embodiments the Fund could re loan the money to a new Borrower or the same Borrower .

In the third phase Borrower pays the Fund one or more indexed payments as a payment stream. The index can be chosen based on the types of entities or small businesses that serve as Borrowers so long as it provides some measure of their fortunes e.g. revenue equity or value generating ability of Borrowers . For example for home owners residential rental rates could suffice as an index as a measure of their fortunes. In such a case the Borrower could pay the Fund an amount indexed to rents in its area for a 10 year term. The payments can be adjusted in accordance with the index during the term of the payment stream obligation.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the cash flows shown in are provided for the purposes of illustrating aspects of the invention and should not be construed as explicit limitations of the invention. Where a cash flow is shown going directly from one box to another box in in other embodiments there could be an intermediary or alternate routing. And where cash flow is shown as having an intermediary in in other embodiments the cash flow might not use the intermediary. For example the Loan in could flow directly from Fund to the Bank on behalf of the Borrower without the Borrower being an intermediary. As another example where the Borrower s interest P is shown going directly to the Borrower in P could go directly to a creditor of the Borrower e.g. the Borrower s mortgage company. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other permutations could exist without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that other parties could be involved in the cash flows. Such other parties could act on behalf of one or more of the entities depicted in e.g. as intermediaries agents debt collectors or service providers involved in facilitating the cash flows. has been presented in a relatively simple and straightforward manner to aid in conveying principles of the invention but not to limit the scope of the invention.

As discussed above with respect to shares can be issued against the Fund and those shares can be publicly or privately traded or not traded as indicated by Shares Exchange in .

Also as discussed above each of Lender Fund and Bank represent computer systems that interact via various forms of communication and networks. Borrower can also be a computer system e.g. a personal computer of a home owner Borrower or a system of a third party credit card company or bank of the Borrower. In particular Fund can be a computer system that manages maintains organizes and transforms information related to the Fund including storing and tracking cash in flows and out flows payment obligations of Borrowers indexed adjustments of payments streams evaluation and performance of the Fund account set up and maintenance for entities related to the Fund and communication and interaction with third party systems to accomplish the foregoing.

In and thereafter the previously performed steps are indicated by dashed lines. In phase II the 250 000 account in Bank generates interest payments from Bank . The Bank is presumed to pay 4 on the 250K deposit. In step 3 55 of the interest earned is paid to Borrower P which amounts to 458 per month or 5 496 per year. Here the interest is it used to pay down the Borrower s mortgage as shown by step 4 with the electronic transfer to Mortgage Co. . But in other embodiments the interest income could be used by the Borrower to pay other debts or could be saved or invested. The Fund receives 45 of the interest from the Bank P P which is 375 per month in this embodiment also shown as step 3. The Fund can then pay the Lender e.g. LIBOR to satisfy the obligations to the Lender P . Therefore Lender Fund and Borrower each benefit from the interest earned on the deposited principal amount of 250K.

Additionally in this embodiment there is interest on the loan charged to the Borrower by the Fund referred as accumulated interest that is not paid back until phase III. In this embodiment the accumulated interest is determined based on the principal loan amount and an index Index including at least a component that has value based relationship to the entity or a class to which the entity belongs. In this example the Borrower is a home owner in the Boston Mass. metro area and the index is chosen to be 1 Boston Metro Rent Inflation. The Boston Metro Rent Inflation is known to be 2.2 according to this example. Other multiples of Boston Metro Rent Inflation could be chosen for the index in which case Boston Metro Rent Inflation would be considered a base index and the chosen multiple would be considered an effective index. In other embodiment Boston Metro Rent Inflation could only be a component of a composite index. In this embodiment the accumulated interest is determined for a period of time the loan to Borrower is considered to be outstanding which is a time period that is not more than the loan term i.e. the loan could be terminated before the end of the term. The accumulated interest could be calculated during phase II or retrospectively during phase III.

In phase III is depicted where the 250K loan has been paid back to the Fund in step 5 which terminates the loan with respect to the Borrower . The Fund can repay the loan to the Lender as an optional extension of step 5 or re loan some or all of it to another Borrower or the same Borrower. From that point forward for a payment term of 5 years in this embodiment the Borrower makes monthly payments to pay off the accumulated interest from the Loan. The accumulated interest payments are determined or adjusted using a relevant index for the term of 5 years. In this embodiment the index Index is chosen to be three time 3 Boston Metro Rent Inflation which is presumed to be 2.0 in this example. In such a case Boston Metro Rent Inflation can be referred to as a base index and the effective index is a multiple greater than 1 here 3 of the base index for payment of the accumulated interest.

In note that the sooner the 250K loan is paid back or terminated the less the accumulated interest and the lower the Borrower s monthly payments thereafter to the Fund . For example in if the Borrower pays back the 250K at the end of the first year 2009 the accumulated interest will be 5 500 and the Borrower s monthly payments in will be 106 month for 5 years. But if the Borrower repays the 250K at the end of year 8 2016 the accumulated interest will be 43 489 and the Borrower s monthly payments in will be 841 month for 5 years.

In accordance with various aspects of the present invention a common index securities or SBLS system defines a fund in memory as an entity in an entity or Fund identification ID field. Certain data fields are created in memory in association with the Fund ID and are used for storage and organization of information and data necessary and or useful in electronically creating managing processing transactions and interacting with Fund .

Various functional modules are shown in and these modules may take the form of hardware firmware software or some combination thereof where computer program code can be stored in a storage medium and executed by at least one processor to implement functions described herein as discussed above with respect to . For example in hardware is depicted by Processors and Store which can be connected by a Bus. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the Processors and storage devices may be collocated remote to each other or some combination thereof.

In a Fund Manager performs the overall management of the Fund and fund management system . For example Fund Manager may be used to define Fund in Store which can include storing a fund name or identification in a Fund ID field of Store . In some embodiments Fund Manager may be used to create and manage multiple funds which may all be independent of each other. In association with a Fund ID one or more cash accounts can also be defined which can collectively define a pool of cash available for lending by the Fund .

Also in association with the Fund ID a set of Borrowers can be defined in memory such as Store . For each Borrower an account can be defined and managed by Account Manager . The account definition is linked to the Fund ID and can include the name of the Borrower or other identifying information a principal amount a loan date a loan term and a payment term as examples. provides an example of information that can be stored in an account definition for a Borrower .

In the Fund name is Boston Metro and borrower Joe Smith Borrower has been issued an account number 2010 001. The Lender is identified as Merrill Lynch and the Bank is identified as Citibank. The principal amount is 250 000 which is provided to Bank on behalf of Joe Smith. The loan term is 10 years which commences on Jan. 15 2010 and is scheduled to end on Jan. 15 2020. The accumulated interest is yet to be calculated and the payment term is set to 5 years. The payment term start date is defaulted to the loan end date and the payment end date is defaulted to 5 years from that start date. The payment term start and end dates will be updated if the loan end date is different that the planned end date of Jan. 15 2020 and in any event will begin when the loan is terminated with respect to Borrower e.g. when the principal is withdrawn from Bank and or paid to Lender . At such time the accumulated interest amount monthly payment and payment term start and end dates will be finally determined by the fund management system . Each of these types of information can have a data field and value stored in Store using Account Manager for example.

Therefore under the management of fund management system Borrower receives upfront liquidity in the form of interest payments made by the Bank as described for phase II which is in exchange for subsequent consideration back to the Fund in the form of one or more indexed payments made to the Fund to pay off the accumulated interest.

An Interest Accumulator tracks and calculates the accumulated interest for each account which it can store in Store for subsequent use by Account Manager or the Interest Accumulator can pass the accumulated interest value to Account Manager for storage in Store . Interest Accumulator can operate in coordination with Fund Manager .

A Payment Adjustor determines the payment adjustments to be made for each account based on the relevant index which it can store in Store for subsequent use by Account Manager or the Payment Adjustor can pass the adjusted payment amounts to Account Manager for storage in Store . Payment Adjustor can operate in coordination with Fund Manager .

Fund management system can also include an Index Monitor that obtains the Index or index information used to generate Index from external sources such as an index system . Therefore Index Monitor can be configured to query external systems to request and or retrieve the Index or index information used to generate Index . The Index Monitor can therefore be configured to generate an index for Fund and store it in any one or more of Stores or . For instance Index Monitor can obtain or generate a base index and determine an effective index for use in determining the accumulated interest and or the borrowers payments for paying off the accumulated interest. Index Monitor could generate a composite index from information data and or components received from external sources.

Fund management system can include a set of interfaces I F useful for interacting with external systems and sources. Lender I F can be used to enable or facilitate interaction with Lender and systems thereof e.g. for managing or arranging the flow of cash to Bank repayment of the principal to Lender P and or payment of interest P from the Bank to Lender or from Fund to Lender .

Bank I F can be used to enable or facilitate interaction with Bank and systems thereof e.g. for managing or arranging the deposit of the principal from Lender or Fund to Bank payment of interest to Borrower P Fund P and or Lender and or the repayment of the principal from Bank or Fund to Lender .

Borrower I F can be used to enable or facilitate interaction with one or more Borrower and systems thereof e.g. for managing or arranging the account interaction with Borrower deposit of the principal from the Lender or Fund to the Bank on behalf of Borrower payment of interest to Borrower P or its designee and or the payment of the indexed accumulated interest from Borrower to Fund .

Exchange I F can be used to enable or facilitate interaction with an Exchange and systems thereof e.g. for enabling or facilitating making shares available for trading tracking performance of shares adjusting the value of shares and or processing associated with issuance and or redemption of shares. With respect to the shares fund management system may include a Trade Module for performing enabling or facilitating any one or more of the foregoing functions.

The various modules that communicate with external systems may do so via any of a variety of networks using any of a variety of communication types devices and systems collectively represented as block in . Such communication types networks devices and systems are described with respect to and are generally known so not described herein. The present invention is not limited to any particular types of communication types networks devices and systems but fund management system preferably uses the foregoing to interact and exchange information with external systems via at least the Internet and Web for example.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other preferred embodiments it is understood that various modifications can be made therein and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

