---

title: Human health monitoring systems and methods
abstract: A monitoring system of the present disclosure has at least one monitor that collects personal health data, stores the personal health data in memory, and transmits at least one data packet comprising the personal health data and at least one identifier for identifying the monitor and a gateway computing device communicatively coupled to the at least one monitor and communicatively coupled to a network, the gateway computing device receives from the monitor the at least one data packet and transmits the at least one data packet over the network. In addition, the monitoring system has a server computing device communicatively coupled to the network, the server computing device receives from the gateway computing device the data packet and stores the data packet in memory associated with a user identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08653965&OS=08653965&RS=08653965
owner: Integrity Tracking, LLC
number: 08653965
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100112
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 144 068 entitled Digital System for Remote Human Health Monitoring and Emergency Alert and filed on Jan. 12 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 144 050 entitled Application Server and Graphical User Interface for Real Time Health Monitoring and filed on Jan. 12 2009 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Health monitoring devices are known and used in various fields including medical instrumentation personal health monitoring wireless sensor networks and computing. Such devices are used for monitoring recording and reporting physiological signals. For example health monitoring devices typically include self test devices such as weight scales for monitoring a user s weight blood pressure cuffs for monitoring blood pressure heart rate monitor for monitoring heart rate temperature sensors for monitoring skin or core body temperature and Personal Emergency Response System PERS devices. Data is typically either retrieved and analyzed as a post recording session or acquired in real time continuously from the device.

Emergency Alert Systems are known in the field of personal emergency response systems PERS and in the field of home security. Emergency alert systems allow individuals to signal for help.

The collection of visualization of data collected from these devices is typically partitioned into 3 components the device a network access device or gateway and an application server. The device typically communicates with the gateway or controller with either a wired or wireless interface such as Zigbee WiFi or Ethernet. The data is collected by the network access device or gateway and uploaded to an application server which stores the data and commonly provides a user interface to visualize and report the data.

A monitoring system in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure has at least one monitor that collects personal health data stores the personal health data in memory and transmits at least one data packet comprising the personal health data and at least one identifier for identifying the monitor. In addition the monitoring system has a gateway computing device communicatively coupled to one or more monitors the gateway computing device receives from the monitor at least one data packet and transmits at least one data packet over a network. Furthermore the monitoring system has a server computing device communicatively coupled to the network the server computing device receives from the gateway computing device the data packet and stores the data packet in memory associated with a user identifier.

A monitoring method in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure comprises receiving a data packet from a monitor the data packet comprising at least one unique identifier and personal health data storing data indicative of the data packet on a gateway computing device and repackaging the data packet. The monitoring method further comprises transmitting the repackaged data packet to a server computing device the repackaged data comprising at least one unique identifier and personal health data receiving the repackaged data packet and storing data indicative of the personal health data in memory correlated with the unique identifier.

A monitoring system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure periodically monitors health metrics of a user in the user s natural setting. The system provides early detection of abnormal physiological levels and builds a history of the user s health information. For example the monitoring system measures the user s activity Activity induced Energy Expenditure heart rate skin temperature number of steps taken and his her sleep wake patterns.

The monitoring system is capable of monitoring a user remotely and includes at least one wearable monitor a gateway computing device a server computing device for storing user health information and a data receiving device that allows third parties to monitor the health and other information of the user of the system.

The monitoring system comprises of any number of measurement devices including body worn health monitoring devices such as chest straps wrist watches pendants or patches self test devices such as weight scales blood pressure cuffs glucose meters peak flow meter and pulse oximeter sensors an application specific network access device herein referred as the home gateway an application server enabling remote management of the user being monitored and a number of methods for contacting caregivers and system users in the event of an emergency or non emergency alert.

The monitoring system simplifies both user experience and the caregiver experience by converging health wellness and emergency response. The user is instrumented with the monitor in a way that is comfortable and substantially non intrusive or uses passive and or active sensors. Some devices are capable of detecting emergency conditions such as a user initiated alert e.g. pressing a panic button while others may be intelligent and capable of automatically detecting an alert such as a user falling especially desirable in the case of a senior user or a user with disabilities. Other automatic devices may include devices in the user s environment such as door switches or sensors to detect extreme climate changes or sensors to detect that an appliance was left on for an extended period of time all especially of interest to elderly users.

The monitoring system allows remote monitoring of a user via the Internet via cellular telephones and or to engage caregivers to take action in the event of an emergency.

In addition the monitoring system collects and archives all historical health information on behalf of a user organizes the information into a relational database and shares the information with caregivers.

In this regard the monitors include a wearable device monitor a glucose monitor a blood pressure monitor and a weight monitor . Note that such monitoring devices are shown for exemplary purposes and other types of monitoring devices may be used in other embodiments of the monitoring system .

In one embodiment the communication links are wireless communication links which can be infrared IR or radio frequency RF links capable of transferring information from the monitoring devices to the gateway computing device . Various wireless communication interfaces and data transfer protocols support the communication of information from the monitoring devices and the gateway computing device . By way of example infrared data association IrDA protocols ZigBee IEEE 802.15.4 BlueTooth IEEE 802.15.1 or IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi are exemplary protocols that support wireless data transfers. In addition any of the monitors may also be physically coupled to the gateway computing device such that wireless communication is unnecessary. For example the monitors may be physically coupled to the gateway computing device via Universal Serial Bus USB Firewire Ethernet or RS 232.

In one embodiment the wearable device monitor comprises a strap that is worn about a user s body area not shown . The wearable device monitor monitors both health status and physiological signals. In addition in the case of emergency response functions the wearable device monitor transmits data indicative of an emergency e.g. a fall. Note that a the wearable device monitor may be worn about or otherwise coupled to body areas such as the user s chest waist wrist or upper arm or optionally a harness device as opposed to the wearable device monitor that is worn about the user s chest. In this regard the wearable device monitor may be a belt clip that is worn on the user s belt or an upper arm band that is worn around the user s upper arm.

In one embodiment the wearable device monitor measures stores and transmits physiological information via the communication link to the gateway computing device . In this regard the wearable device monitor communicates with the gateway computing device via a messaging protocol that adequately describes pertinent health features alert conditions and wearable device monitor status information.

Non limiting examples of physiological information that may be measured stored and transmitted by the wearable device monitor include heart rate respiration muscle activity skin temperature oxygen saturation sensors SpO2 and galvanic skin response GSR sensors. Other non limiting examples include motion data data indicative of caloric expenditure or energy expenditure number of steps and data indicative of sleep wake patterns.

In one embodiment where seniors or disabled individuals may be wearing the wearable device monitor a specific concern for detection of a fall or notification of other emergency alerts is of particular concern. In such an embodiment the wearable device monitor may have the capability to automatically detect a fall which is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 855 entitled Wearable Health Monitoring Device and Methods for Fall Detection and filed on Aug. 15 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 830 entitled Wearable Health Monitoring Device and Methods for Step Detection and filed on Aug. 15 2008 which are incorporated herein by reference. In addition the wearable device monitor may automatically detect heart irregularities or other health anomalies. Furthermore the wearable device monitor may comprise a button not shown that the user may press as a signal for help.

In one embodiment the wearable device monitor may have a limited range of wireless communication with the gateway computing device . In such an embodiment the wearable device monitor may comprise a wide area network wireless access device not shown . Thus the wearable device monitor may at times be able to communicate directly with the server computing device when not within range with the gateway computing device . In this regard the wearable device monitor may comprise a baseband radio frequency RF transceiver e.g. global system for mobile communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA general packet radio service GPRS Mobile WiMax or other mobile telecommunication standard to communicate directly with the server computing device . Additionally the wearable device monitor may communicate with a cell phone which in turn communicates with the server computing device .

In one embodiment the glucose monitor comprises a test strip port not shown that receives a test strip not shown on which a user s blood has been deposited. The glucose monitor obtains from the user s blood data indicative of the glucose contained in the user s blood.

In one embodiment the glucose monitor measures stores and transmits data indicative of the glucose content information via the communication link to the gateway computing device . In this regard the glucose monitor communicates with the gateway computing device via a messaging protocol that adequately describes glucose content of the user s blood.

In one embodiment the blood pressure monitor comprises an inflatable cuff not shown that is placed around the user s arm not shown . The inflatable cuff is inflated via an inflation bulb and valve not shown and the user s blood pressure is obtained via a device that is used to measure the pressure in the user s arm as the cuff is deflated. Thus the blood pressure monitor may obtain data indicative of the user s blood pressure and pulse.

In one embodiment the blood pressure monitor measures stores and transmits blood pressure and pulse information via the communication link to the gateway computing device . In this regard the blood pressure monitor communicates with the gateway computing device via a messaging protocol that adequately describes the user s blood pressure and pulse.

In one embodiment the weight monitor comprises weight scales not shown . A user stands on the weight scales and the weight monitor obtains the weight of the user. In this regard the weight monitor obtains and stores data indicative of the user s weight.

In one embodiment the weight monitor measures stores and transmits weight information via the communication link to the gateway computing device . In this regard the weight monitor communicates with the gateway computing device via a messaging protocol that adequately describes the user s weight.

Note that as described above the monitors collect data indicative of various health related characteristics of a user. Such data is hereinafter referred to as personal health data.

The monitoring system further comprises a server computing device . The server computing device is communicatively coupled to the gateway computing device via a network . For example in one embodiment the network is the Internet and Internet protocol IP packets are communicated between the gateway computing device and the server computing device .

In addition the monitoring system further comprises a data receiving device for receiving data from the server computing device . In this regard the server computing device communicates with the data receiving device via a communication link .

The data receiving device may be any type of device for receiving data from the server computing device . As mere examples the data receiving device may be a telephone a monitoring call center a personal digital assistant PDA a cell phone or another computing device. To such types of devices the server computing device may transmit data for example of an alert indicating a critical situation with the user e.g. the user has fallen.

In the example where the data receiving device is a telephone the server computing device would receive alert condition. Upon receipt the server computing device would translate the data to audio speech. For example the server computing device may translate the data into a .wav file or any other sound file format known in the art or future developed. In such an embodiment the server computing device may comprise a phone connection and the sound file is delivered to the telephone via the phone connection.

In one embodiment wherein the data receiving device is a computing device the server computing device may transmit an email to an email account on the data receiving device . In another embodiment the server computing device may comprise a web server and the server computing device may transmit data indicative of a web page to the computing device that is displayed in a web browser by the computing device. Such web page may display various graphical elements related to the personal health data including discrete measurements graphs of characteristics over time or bar charts. For example the web page may display a graph indicating over time the user s body temperature. While shows a communication link between the server computing device and the data receiving device the server computing device may also communicate with the data receiving device via the network .

The exemplary embodiment of the gateway computing device depicted by includes a processor which comprises processing hardware for executing instructions stored in memory . The processor communicates to and drives the other elements within the gateway computing device via a local interface which can include at least one bus.

Furthermore the gateway computing device comprises a communication interface a network interface and a alternate interface . The communication interface may be any type of communication device that communicatively couples the gateway computing device with the monitors over the communication links respectively. Additionally the network interface may be any type of communication device that communicatively couples the gateway computing device with the network . Further the alternate backup interface may be any type of communication device that connects the gateway computing device to the server computing device . In one embodiment the alternate network interface can be an analog dial up modem a cellular modern or a digital subscriber line DSL modem. The analog dial up modem would connect the gateway computing device to a standard phone line. The cellular modem would connect the gateway computing device to the server computing device via a cellular network. The DSL modem would connect the gateway computing device to a DSL line.

The gateway computing device further comprises monitor data stored in memory . The monitor data comprises data received by the monitoring devices and transmitted to the gateway computing device . Such data may include personal health data and or alert condition data . Note that each transmission of personal health data or alert condition data from a monitor comprises a unique identifier which is data uniquely identifying each of the monitors and or the user registered with the server computing device . An exemplary registration process is described in more detail herein.

Note that the personal health data is that data that is periodically and during the ordinary course transmitted to the gateway computing device by the monitors . Such personal health data can be for example data received from the chest strap indicative of the user s heart rate respiration muscle activity oxygen saturation SpO2 and or galvanic skin response GSR . In addition the personal health data may include data indicative of caloric expenditure or energy expenditure number of daily steps and data indicative of sleep wake patterns. In addition the personal health data may include data indicative of a glucose measurement received from the glucose monitor a blood pressure or pulse measurement received from the blood pressure monitor or a weight measurement received from the weight monitor . Note that the term periodically can refer to any interval at which the personal health data is transmitted to the gateway computing device . Periodically can refer to a set interval e.g. every five minutes or the personal health data can be transmitted at random intervals. As additional examples the personal health data may comprise

Further alert condition data may include any data that indicates any event that that occurs with respect to one of the monitors or the user. Events for which alert condition data may be generated and transmitted to the gateway computing device by the monitors include but are not limited to battery charge complete battery unplugged battery plugged battery critically low monitor enabled monitor disabled the user has fallen the user has actuated the panic button located on the wearable device monitor . In addition the alert condition data may include data indicative of events that occur related to the gateway computing device. For example the alert condition data may include data indicating that the gateway computing device reset button not shown has been actuated the gateway computing device is offline or the gateway computing device is online.

In addition the gateway computing device comprises configuration data stored in memory . The configuration data may be any data needed for the operation of the gateway computing device . For example the configuration data may comprise server data . The server data stores data indicative of the universal resource locator URL of the server computing device . In one embodiment the URL is an Internet address for example. In operation the gateway controller logic uses this URL to communicate with the server computing device for registration which is described further herein to transmit personal health data to transmit alert data or to query the server computing device for management commands such as firmware upgrades or to make configuration changes of the gateway computing device . In one embodiment the gateway computing device may store as server data a plurality of URLs to segregate the different type data. For example there may be one URL to which routine periodic personal health data is transmitted and there may be a different URL to which alert condition data is transmitted. In such an embodiment the server computing device may span multiple physical computing devices as is sometimes the case in distributed networked Internet based applications.

In another embodiment the gateway computing device the server data may store multiple redundant URLs for the same type of data. In such an embodiment the server computing device would comprise multiple physical separate computing devices each with a different URL. For example the gateway computing device may store multiple addresses for alert condition data. Given the severity of the information delivered in this instance this would allow multiple physically and geographically distinct server computing devices to process the alert condition data in parallel making the application fault tolerant to a fault occurring on one of the server computing devices . In such an embodiment database synchronization techniques well known to those skilled in the art are used to synchronize the server database with another database on another server computing device when such a fault.

In addition the configuration data comprises gateway data . The gateway data comprises data for controlling the gateway computing device. For example the gateway data may comprise a media access control Mac address data identifying the gateway computing device . In addition the gateway data may comprise a serial number of the gateway computing device . The gateway data may further comprise a flag for enabling or disabling a buzzer located on the gateway computing device . Additionally the gateway data may comprise a light emitting diode LED test flag for indicating that an LED test is to be performed at start up.

In one embodiment the gateway computing device may be a cellular telephone or other mobile network device e.g. a PDA. In such an embodiment the monitors would communicate with the cellular telephone or other mobile device and the cellular telephone or other mobile device would communicate with the server computing device . In this regard the gateway controller logic would be ported to run on the cellular telephone or other mobile device.

In another embodiment both the gateway computing device and a mobile network access device such as a cellular telephone could coexist as redundant access devices. In such a case the wearable device monitor would recognize when it has left range of the gateway computing device . U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 972 275 entitled Wireless Sensor Network Data Management System and Method filed on Jan. 10 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference discloses a method for detecting the presence of the gateway computing device . In such a case the wearable device monitor autonomously chooses to access the network via the gateway computing device or the mobile network access device such as a cellular telephone . In such an embodiment the access devices could be prioritized such that lower power or lower cost in terms of real financial costs associated with accessing the network e.g. air time would be first preference access.

From time to time the gateway computing device may lose connectivity with the server computing device . In such a scenario the gateway computing device detects such loss in connectivity and defers transmission of personal health data and alert condition data until connectivity is restored with the server computing device .

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the gateway computing device may prioritize alert condition data received from the monitors and store such prioritized alert condition data as priority data . In this regard as described above the alert condition data received from the monitors comprises a unique identifier s and data indicative of the event that resulted in the alert condition data being sent to the gateway computing device . Such events may be predetermined to have a particular priority. For example certain events may have Immediate High Medium or Low priority. While Immediate High Medium or Low priority are described as exemplary priority types other priority types may be used in other embodiments and such types may be configurable.

To prioritize the alert condition data the gateway controller logic compares the data indicative of the event that resulted in the alert condition data being sent to the gateway computing device to data indicative of one or more events that are associated with an Immediate priority. For example events that are associated with an Immediate priority may be a fall by the user the panic button on the chest strap was actuated or the gateway computing device reset button not shown was actuated. If the alert condition data received from the monitor comprises data that indicates Immediate priority the gateway controller logic stores as priority data the alert condition data correlated with an identifier that indicates that the alert condition data has Immediate priority. If the alert condition data has Immediate priority the gateway controller logic immediately transmits a repackaged data packet of the alert condition data to the server computing device .

In addition the gateway controller logic compares the data indicative of the event that resulted in the alert condition data being sent to the gateway computing device to data indicative of one or more events that are associated with a High priority. An event that may be High priority is the battery is critically low. If the alert condition data received from the monitor comprises data that indicates High priority the gateway controller logic stores as priority data the alert condition data correlated with an identifier that indicates that the alert condition data has High priority.

In addition the gateway controller logic compares the data indicative of the event that resulted in the alert condition data being sent to the gateway computing device to data indicative of one or more events that are associated with a Medium priority. An event that may be Medium priority is the strap of the monitor has been removed or the strap of the monitor has been fastened for example. If the alert condition data received from the monitor comprises data that indicates Medium priority the gateway controller logic stores as priority data the alert condition data correlated with an identifier that indicates that the alert condition data has Medium priority.

In addition the gateway controller logic compares the data indicative of the event that resulted in the alert condition data being sent to the gateway computing device to data indicative of one or more events that are associated with a Low priority. An event that may be Low priority is the battery is unplugged the battery is plugged and the battery charge is complete. If the alert condition data received from the monitor comprises data that indicates Low priority the gateway controller logic stores as priority data the alert condition data correlated with an identifier that indicates that the alert condition data has Low priority.

As described above the gateway computing device may lose connectivity with the server computing device . When connectivity is lost and alert condition data has been prioritized and stored as priority data upon regaining connectivity with the server computing device the gateway computing device transmits data have a higher correlated priority first. In this regard alert condition data that is correlated in the priority data as Immediate priority is transmitted before alert condition data that is correlated in the priority data with High Medium and Low priority levels.

The server computing device further comprises operating system logic stored in memory . The operating system logic controls the execution of computer programs such as application logic and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services. Exemplary operating systems include but are not limited to Windows Server Linux and Unix .

The server computing device further comprises a server database stored in memory . The server database stores data identifying users and corresponding monitors. In addition the server database stores personal health data and alert condition data associated with each user and with each monitor correlated with each user. In this regard each data packet received from the gateway computing device comprises a unique identifier which can be the user identifier the monitor identifier or both. The server computing device stores the personal health data and the alert condition data received in the data packets in the server database correlated with the user or monitor identified in the data packet. Note that the server database may be any type of database known in the art or future developed and may include Oracle Microsoft structured query language server SQLServer MySQL and PostgreSQL.

The server computing device further comprises web server logic . The web server logic generates data indicative of a web page and delivers the data to a remote computing device which displays the web page defined by the data received. Exemplary web servers include but are not limited to Apache Litespeed and Information Internet Services IIS .

The exemplary embodiment of the server computing device depicted by includes a processor which comprises processing hardware for executing instructions stored in memory . The processor communicates to and drives the other elements within the server computing device via a local interface which can include at least one bus.

Furthermore the server computing device comprises a network interface and a communication interface . The network interface may be any type of communication device that communicatively couples the server computing device with the network . Additionally the communication interface may be any type of communication device that communicatively couples the server computing device with the data receiving device . In one embodiment the server computing device can connect to the data receiving device via the communication interface or the network interface via the Internet.

In addition the server computing device comprises a display device . The display device may be any type of display device known in the art or future developed. As a mere example the display device may be a liquid crystal display LCD .

Furthermore the server computing device comprises an input device . The input device may be for example a keyboard.

An exemplary operation of the monitoring system will now be described below. It is to be understood that changes and modifications to the described operation are possible.

As indicated hereinabove with reference to the user not shown of the monitors registers with the monitoring system . The registration associates the monitors with a user identifier. In this regard when the monitors are powered on upon initial use by the user the monitors transmit a data packet not shown to the gateway computing device . In one embodiment the data packet transmitted to the gateway computing device by each of the monitors upon initial use comprises an identifier that uniquely defines the individual monitor such as the monitor s serial number which is assigned to and stored in the monitor during the manufacturing process.

The gateway computing device receives the data packets from each of the monitors . Upon receipt of the data packets from each of the monitors the gateway controller logic stores as monitor data each data packet which includes the monitors serial numbers. The gateway computing device repackages the stored data packets into a network deliverable format e.g. transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP encapsulated hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or extensible markup language XML packets and transmits the repackaged data packets to the server computing device .

The server computing device receives the data packets via the network . As indicated above in one embodiment each data packet received comprises a monitor serial number. The application logic generates a user identifier which can be a unique integer associated with the user of the monitors . In addition the application logic generates a monitor identifier for each monitor serial number received. The monitor identifier uniquely identifies the monitor and such monitor identifier may in one embodiment incorporate the monitor s serial number. However in other embodiments the monitor identifier may be randomly generated numbers that are associated with each monitor. The application logic stores in the server database the generated user identifier correlated with each generated monitor identifier. Indeed for each user identifier there is one or more monitor identifiers stored correlated with the user identifier.

After generation of the user identifier and the monitor identifier for each monitor the application logic transmits via the network interface over the network the user identifier and the monitor identifiers to the gateway computing device . The gateway computing device receives the user identifier and the monitor identifiers and stores the user identifier and the monitor identifiers as monitor data .

The gateway controller logic then transmits to each monitor the user identifier and the monitor s respective monitor identifiers. Each monitor is considered registered once it has received the user identifier and the monitor identifier. The monitors store the user identifier and respective monitor identifier locally on the monitor .

As will be described further herein each subsequent transmission by a monitor of personal health data or alert condition data will contain the user identifier the monitor identifier or both. If the monitor identifiers or user identifier are lost from the monitor the monitor will automatically request a new user identifier and monitor identifier using its serial number as described above.

Once registration is completed the monitors are then operational. In this regard the monitors from time to time capture personal health data and store the personal health data on the monitor . The monitors package the captured data into data packets and transmit the data packets to the gateway computing device via communication links as described above. Note that the personal health data packets transmitted by the monitors each comprise the user identifier the monitor identifier or both and the personal health data. In one embodiment a separate monitor identifier and user identifier may be used so that multiple users can use the same monitor or the user can have multiple monitors .

In addition to periodically capturing personal health data the monitors may also capture alert condition data as described above. In such a scenario the monitors would also package data indicative of the alert condition data into a data packet and transmit the data packet to the gateway computing device . Note that the alert condition data packets transmitted would also each comprise the user identifier the monitor identifier or both and the alert condition data.

Note that in repackaging the personal health data the alert condition data and the unique identifiers contained in the received data packets the gateway controller logic uses encryption to encrypt the repackaged data packets. In this regard the gateway controller logic may use secure socket layer SSL encryption. In addition the gateway controller logic may use other encryption or security methods known in the art or future developed to secure the data packets that are sent via network to the server computing device .

The gateway controller logic receives the data packets from the monitors via the communication interface over the communication links respectively. The gateway controller logic stores the data packets as monitor data . The gateway controller logic then repackages the data packets comprising the unique identifier and the personal health data into a network deliverable format e.g. TCP IP encapsulated HTTP and XML packets and transmits the data packets to the server computing device via the network interface over the network . In one embodiment the data packets transmitted by the gateway controller logic conform to a communication protocol such as the REST web service described above. Note that when the data packets are repackaged by the gateway controller logic the data packets retain the unique user identifier monitor identifier or both.

The gateway controller logic periodically transmits the repackaged data packets comprising personal health data to the server computing device . Note that the term periodically can refer to any interval at which the personal health data or alert condition data is transmitted to the server computing device . Periodically can refer to a set interval or the personal health data can be transmitted at random intervals. For example the gateway controller logic may transmit data packets received from the monitors every fifteen minutes to the server computing device .

In one embodiment the gateway controller logic determines whether the data packet contains alert condition data . For example the data packet may comprise the unique identifier and data indicating that the user has fallen. In such a scenario the gateway controller logic would not wait for the periodic transmission time e.g. every fifteen minutes to transmit the repackaged data packet to the server computing device . Instead the gateway controller logic would assign an Immediate priority to the data packet and the gateway controller logic would immediately transmit the repackaged data packet indicating the alert condition data to the server computing device .

Further as described above the gateway controller logic may also prioritize alert condition data based upon the type of event that is included in the data packet received from the monitors . The gateway computing device may then transmit the repackaged data packets of the alert condition data based upon the priority level assigned to the alert condition data .

The application logic receives the data packets from the gateway computing device via the network interface over the network . As noted hereinabove the data packet may comprise data indicative of the personal health data or alert condition data . When the data packet comprises personal health data the application logic stores the personal health data in each data packet in the server database correlated with the user identifier and or monitor identifier previously stored in the server database during registration.

When the data packet comprises alert condition data the application logic may assign a type identifier to the alert condition. A type identifier identifies the type of alert condition that is contained in the data packet and exemplary type identifiers include NORMAL CAUTION or SEVERE. In this regard the application logic may assign a NORMAL identifier to the alert condition data if the data packet comprises data indicating the battery of the wearable device monitor is fully charged or the gateway computing device is online. In addition the application logic may assign a CAUTION identifier to the alert condition data if the data packet comprises data indicating the battery is critically low or the gateway computing device is offline. Furthermore the application logic may assign a SEVERE identifier to the alert condition data if the data packet comprises data indicating the user fell.

After determining the identifier type for the data packet comprising alert condition data the application logic stores data indicative of an alert condition and the type identifier assigned to the alert condition data correlated with the user identifier and or monitor identifier in the server database .

Note that in one embodiment the application logic manages a plurality of users not shown i.e. human subjects being monitored manages a plurality of devices receives periodic personal health data receives asynchronous event and or alert data receives monitor status information and stores data indicative of each of these into the server database . In addition the application logic formats and supplies data in the form of a graphical user interface to users and their caregivers extracting pertinent event data and presenting this via the graphical user interface GUI and or via e mail messages and or via SMS text messages to a cellular telephone.

In one embodiment of the monitoring system the application logic displays to the display device or may generate a web page that is displayed to a computing device of a data receiving device a graphical user interface GUI comprising graphical elements relaying the personal health data and alert condition data received from the monitors . In this regard the application logic may display discrete readings from a monitor . For example the application logic may display a user s glucose reading at a particular time. Additionally the application logic may display graphical elements that show personal health data over time. For example the application logic may display a graph of the user s body temperature over a particular period of time e.g. the last twenty four hours. As another example the application logic may display heart rate measurements in a line chart showing the measurements over a particular period of time. In other embodiments other types of graphical elements may be used to convey the personal health data collected by the application logic and stored in the server database .

As described above the monitoring system may be used to collect continuous and periodic personal health data. As further described above particular events indicating alert conditions may also be detected by the monitors and alert condition data indicating the alert conditions may be transmitted to the server computing device as described above. As an example a user wearing the chest monitor may fall which would be an alert condition. In such a scenario the gateway computing device receives a data packet from the chest monitor comprising data indicating the user identifier and or monitor identifier and an alert condition.

As described above upon receipt of the data packet indicating the alert condition the gateway computing device would repackage the data packet as described above and transmit a data packet to the server computing device indicating the user identifier and or monitor identifier and an alert condition i.e. a fall. Upon receipt of the data packet the application logic would immediately transmit a notification of the alert condition to the data receiving device . Such a notification may be sent to recipients of the alerts including but not limited to SMS text message e mail and web services such as REST SOAP and WSDL. Such recipients may include but are not limited to caregivers call centers administrators personal health records social networking services and clinicians.

In one embodiment the application logic may also generate alert conditions by periodically monitoring the server database for alert states. For example the application logic may periodically retrieve heart rate data and compare the heart rate data to a threshold value. If the heart rate data retrieved from the server database exceeds the threshold value then the application logic may transmit a notification as described above.

In one embodiment the server computing device also generates alert conditions by monitoring data packets received from the gateway computing device or monitoring the server database . In such an embodiment the application logic may invoke an operating system process or thread to poll the server database for alert states such as but not limited to threshold detection of heart rate. As an example a Command Run On cron job is periodically executed on the server computing device . The cron job launches some form of executable code such as a script. The script calls the application logic which then queries the server database to determine if there is alert condition e.g. the heart rate or other measurement has exceeded a certain threshold. the gateway computing device is offline or the gateway computing device is out of range. If there is an alert condition the server computing device automatically and immediately transmits data indicative of the alert to the data receiving device .

Moreover the server computing device may further recognize priority of certain types of personal health data and alert conditions. As an example a user falling may result in an immediate alert to a data receiving device . In one embodiment the immediate alert is delivered in the same operating system process spawned immediately by the critical event data received from the gateway computing device .

In one embodiment the server computing device may queue non critical events. In this regard an operating system process may be triggered by a data packet received from the gateway computing device . If the data packet indicates a noncritical event data indicative of the event may be delivered later by a background operating system process. Such a scheme maximizes server resources such as physical memory and processor bandwidth while delivering critical events in the most immediate fashion possible.

In one embodiment the gateway computing device further comprises a dial up connection in addition to the network interface that connects the gateway computing device with the server computing device . If connectivity is down over the network the gateway computing device may establish connection with the server computing device via the alternate interface thus serving as a backup. In addition the alternate interface may serve as a redundant connection to the server computing device . In this regard if the gateway computing device receives alert condition data the gateway controller logic may simultaneously send the alert condition data via the network interface and the alternate interface . In one embodiment the alternate interface may also be used to transmit personal health data having a low priority. However in other embodiments the dial up connection may only be used to transmit alert condition data having a higher priority e.g. the user has fallen.

In addition the gateway computing device may lose communication with the monitors . For example the monitors may be out of range of the gateway computing device . In this regard the gateway controller logic periodically e.g. every second or at random intervals transmits a signal to the monitors and the signal not shown includes a timestamp. Such signal is hereinafter referred to as a beacon signal. In response to receiving the beacon signal the monitors transmit a response signal not shown to the gateway computing device that also includes a timestamp indicating the time that the monitor responds to the beacon signal. Thus the gateway controller logic can calculate a latency time period which is the time difference between when the beacon signal is sent and when the monitor responds. If the monitor does not respond such lack of response indicates to the gateway computing device that the monitor is out of range of the gateway computing device .

In such a scenario the gateway controller logic determines that there is no communication with the monitors and data packets are not being received from the monitors . If the gateway computing device is no longer receiving data packets from the monitors the gateway controller logic transmits a data packet to the server computing device comprising data indicating that one or more of the monitors are out of range. If the server computing device receives a data packet indicating that one of the monitors is out of range the server computing device may display to the display device data indicating that the monitor is out of range. Note that the out of range alert may also be generated by a background process e.g. a cron job as described above of the server computing device .

Additionally the monitor that is out of range detects that it is no longer in communication with the gateway computing device when the beacon signal is not received from the gateway computing device . When the monitor detects that it is no longer in range of the gateway computing device the monitor continues to collect personal health data and alert condition data from the user of the monitors . The monitors store in memory not shown on the monitors data collected during the period in which the monitor is out of range of the gateway computing device . The storing in memory of the data collected is referred to as buffering. 

Subsequently the monitor may then become within range of the gateway computing device which the monitor determines when it finally receives a beacon signal from the gateway computing device . In response the monitor transmits to the gateway computing device all the personal health data and alert condition data that was collected during the period in which the monitor was out of range of the gateway computing device . In this regard the monitor transmits data packets comprising the personal health data and the alert condition data collected during the time that the monitor was not in range of the gateway computing device . In response the gateway controller logic repackages each of the data packets received once communication between the monitor and the gateway computing device is reestablished and transmits all the data packets to the server computing device . Notably the gateway controller logic can bundle all the data packets into a single data packet for a single transmission. In this regard the bundled data packets are a concatenation of each individual data packet. For example if JavaScript object notation JSON or XML POST are used in the transmission of data packets to the server computing device then the bundled data packets are a concatenation of each individual JSON or XML POST.

Once the server computing device determines that data packets are now being sent from the gateway computing device and the monitors are now in range of the gateway computing device the server computing device further displays data to the display device or to a web page being displayed by the web server indicating that the monitor is now in range. In addition the server computing device unbundles the personal health data and the alert condition data from the data packets received and stores the personal health data and the alert condition data in the server database correlated with the user identified in the data packet s unique identifier.

Note that the home gateway computing device gateway communicates with the server in two ways. The primary method is via the network interface over the Ethernet. In this regard typically the gateway computing device communicates with the server computing device via the network interface over a Broadband connection such as digital subscriber line DSL or cable modem.

In the event Ethernet connection via the network interface is not available the gateway computing device may communicate with the server computing device via the alternate interface and effectively replace the Ethernet connection. In this regard the gateway computing device may either communicate via the network interface over the Ethernet or via the alternate interface over a standard telephone line for example. In addition the gateway computing device can automatically switch between network interface and the alternate interface .

Specifically the gateway controller logic monitors the physical link e.g. an Ethernet link of the network interface at regular intervals. In this regard the gateway controller logic queries the physical link status of the network interface . In one embodiment the network interface comprises an Ethernet transceiver not shown . In such an embodiment the gateway controller logic queries the Ethernet transceiver physical link status. If the query indicates that there is no existing physical link via the interface the gateway controller logic begins to send repackaged data packets through the alternate interface e.g. via the standard phone line.

Additionally the physical link may be operable but the application layer may be inoperable. Note that in one embodiment the application layer is HTTP. In operation the gateway controller logic determines if the application layer is operable. In this regard the gateway controller logic transmits a request e.g. an HTTP request to the server computing device . If the application layer is operable the server computing device transmits an application layer response e.g. an HTTP response back to the gateway computing device . If the application layer response is not received such nonreceipt indicates to the gateway computing device that the application layer is inoperable. Thus if the application layer response is not received the gateway controller logic begins to send repackaged data packets through the alternate interface e.g. via the standard phone line.

Once the gateway controller logic switches to the alternate interface it continues to test the Ethernet connection to determine if it subsequently becomes active. If the Ethernet connection is found to be active the gateway controller logic switches back to Ethernet as the primary connection and transmits data packets through the network interface to the server computing device .

If the gateway computing device receives alert condition data the gateway controller logic first attempts to transmit data packets via the last operable connection i.e. if the most recent operable connection is the network interface the gateway controller logic will transmit data packets via the network interface but if the most recent operable connection is the alternate interface the gateway controller logic will transmit the data packets via the alternate interface If the most recent operable connection is now inoperable the gateway controller logic will attempt to transmit the data packets over the other connection.

Note that for an emergency response alert condition e.g. a panic button or a fall Underwrite Laboratories UL standards limit the number of dial attempts that can be made before the gateway computing device must leave a telephone phone line free for a defined length of time. Meanwhile the gateway controller logic continues to monitor the Ethernet connection and if the connection through the network interface is operable the gateway controller logic can transmit data packets indicative of alert condition data received from the monitors .

In addition UL standards require the gateway computing device to enter a back off period leaving the telephone line untouched and free for incoming calls following the transmission of personal health data or alert condition data . Such a back off period only applies to an emergency response alert condition. Thus instead of posting subsequent alert condition data as a separate message all available alert condition data are bundled into a single XML encoded message at the time they are transmitted to the server. The gateway computing device then observes the UL required phone line back off period. Meanwhile if the user presses the panic button additional times during the back off period the alert condition data is stored in a queue in the monitor data and are transmitted as described above after the back off period has expired.

Because of the encryption and security features of the communication link between the gateway computing device and the server computing device there is a delay between each alert condition data transmission. This produces lengthy delay when transmitting multiple alerts.

Furthermore in some cases a user of the monitors pushes the panic button described above multiple times for a single alert situation in a short period of time. The monitor bundles alert condition data indicative of the multiple times the panic button is selected. This bundled multiple data packets comprising alert condition data are transmitted to the gateway computing device . In response the gateway computing device sends a first alert condition data packet to the server computing device . In addition the gateway computing device bundles the remaining multiple alert condition data and transmits the bundled multiple alert condition data to the server computing device . Thus multiple alert condition data must be transmitted to the server computing device and the application logic stores such alert condition data to the server database as described above.

A back off period is also employed on the server computing device to give the gateway computing device enough time to relinquish the telephone line in case of an incoming call. As an example in response to receiving alert condition data the server computing device may transmit data indicative of the alert condition data to a data receiving device for emergency response. As described herein a periodic background process e.g. a cron job implements the back off period that will delay the delivery of the alert condition data to the data receiving device so that an agent not shown monitoring the data receiving device does receive a busy signal while the gateway computing device is still transmitting alert condition data through the telephone line and may be in the process of hanging up the call.

Note that in one embodiment the data stored in the server database is organized such that the data is user centric. In such an embodiment a single separated database table not shown representing a user may have relationships to associated physiological alert and monitor tables. In this regard there may be one table describing the user such as the user s name address phone numbers and other medical information such as allergies medical conditions and caregiver information key location how to get into the person s house hospital preference hospital number doctor s name doctor s number Premises Access Combination Lockbox Code Key Location door to break into if no key pet information medications medical equipment in the home diabetes indicator cancer indicator seizure indicator stroke costovertebral angle CVA Transient lschemic Attack TIA cardiac history pacemaker indicator or other additional information for example hereinafter referred to as protected health information PHI . There may be other tables that describe the user s personal health data i.e. personal health data collected via the monitors . To ensure privacy specified in standards such as HIPAA the server database decouples the protected health information PHI from other personal health data.

In one embodiment to promote further security the server database also allows the user database table which houses the PHI in an encrypted format or on a separate database server with stricter security enforcement such as DES triple DES and RC4 for network traffic transferred between the servers on the network.

In one embodiment the application logic display a GUI not shown that comprises a plurality of management commands that can be executed by the gateway computing device . Such exemplary management commands include but are not limited to information request reset firmware upgrade self test self test telephone ranges test start range test stop adjust management poll rate in seconds e.g. 60 change dial up number username or password and or unregister device. Each of the management commands has associated with it a selectable graphical element e.g. a check box or a radio button. A user or a caregiver can select one or more of the management commands via the selectable graphical elements that the user or caregiver desires to be performed by the gateway computing device . The application logic stores such selection of management commands associated with the user identifier and or monitor identifier in server database .

Periodically the gateway computing device may transmit a query for management commands to the server computing device by beginning a query cycle every 15 minutes or at a configurable periodic rate . In response the application logic transmits to the gateway computing device one of the management commands selected by the user or caregiver which the gateway computing device then performs. For example if a reset management command is stored in the server database associated with the user identifier of the requesting gateway computing device the application logic transmits the reset command to the gateway computing device and the gateway computing device executes a reset of the gateway computing device . As the management commands selected by the user or caregiver is transmitted to the gateway computing device the application logic removes such command from the server database .

Note that a query cycle consists of repeated individual queries transmitted in a loop to the server computing device . The query cycle ends when the server computing device does not have any management commands to send. Once the query cycle is complete for the particular gateway computing device the gateway computing device will restart the query cycle 15 minutes later.

During a query cycle the gateway computing device will send an acknowledgement ACK after each individual management command is successfully received from the server computing device . If the server computing device does not receive the ACK then the server will to resend the management command in the same query cycle until the management command is successfully received or a maximum threshold of 5 attempts is reached. This is to prevent an infinite loop in case of a failure on network or server computing device . If the ACK is received successfully then the server computing device puts the management command in a pending state in the server database waiting on a response RSP from the gateway computing device indicating that the management was successfully executed. When the gateway computing device confirms sends the RSP the server computing device will completely remove the management command from the server database as described herein. If an RSP is not received by the server computing device it will send the management command on the next query cycle. The RSP will also contain contextual info on the result of the management command such as software version numbers in the case of a firmware upgrade management command. Also the server computing device will not allow management command of the same type to be transmitted to the gateway computing device .

In addition on the back panel is an RS232 connection for management and configuration. In this regard a laptop not shown may connect to the gateway computing device via the RS232 connection . A command line interface on the laptop may allow a user of the laptop to change settings or otherwise manage the setup of the gateway computing device . For example server computing device URLs can be added or modified via the RS232 connection via the laptop.

Also the gateway computing device supports reverse secure shell SSH . SSH includes a command line interface into the gateway computing device through server computing device or any other computing device not shown that is communicatively coupled to the network . Via the command line interface a user may initiate commands for changing configuration data of the gateway computing device . For example server computing device URLs can be added or modified via the SSH.

In another embodiment the gateway computing device comprises Firewire for communicating with other devices. Firewire is a standardized format described in IEEE 1394. The IEEE 1394 interface is a serial bus interface standard for high speed communications and isochronous real time data transfer frequently used by personal computers as well as in digital audio digital video automotive and aeronautics applications. Such other devices that the Firewire may connect to may include any of the monitors .

In another embodiment the gateway computing device comprises Wi Fi capability as a primary Internet connection in lieu of Ethernet connection . In another embodiment the gateway computing device includes a cellular connection in place of either the Ethernet connection or dialup connection . In another embodiment the gateway computing device comprises a battery backup to provide persistent operation in spite of loss of power.

In step the gateway controller logic stores data indicative of the data packet to memory . In step the gateway controller logic determines based upon the contents of the data packet whether the data packet indicates personal health data or an alert condition.

If the gateway controller logic determines that the data packet indicates an alert condition in step the gateway controller logic transmits a data packet containing the alert condition to the server computing device in step . If the gateway controller logic determines that the data packet indicates personal health data in step the gateway controller logic determines if it is time to transmit personal health data to the server computing device . If it is time to transmit personal health data to the server computing device the gateway controller logic transmits a data packet containing the personal health data to the server computing device in step . Otherwise the gateway controller logic continues to receive data packets from monitors in step .

In step the application logic determines whether the data packet indicates personal health data or an alert condition. If the application logic determines that the data packet indicates an alert condition in step the application logic stores data indicative of the alert condition in the server database associated with the unique identifier in step . The application logic displays to the display device or to a web page via the web server data indicative of the alert condition data in step . In step the application logic transmits a notification of the alert condition to a data receiving device .

If the application logic determines that the data packet indicates personal health data in step the application logic stores data indicative of the personal health data associated with the unique identifier in the server database in step . The application logic then displays personal health data to a display device in step .

