---

title: Address book autofilter
abstract: A mechanism is provided for filtering an address book. Contacts are read of the address book of a user. An operative connection is maintained to a social networking site related to the user. Social networking communication data of the user is extracted from the social networking site. The contacts are ranked in the address book based on the social networking communication data of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09269077&OS=09269077&RS=09269077
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09269077
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101116
---
Mobile portable communications devices such as cellular telephones include memory to store contact information. This contact information is typically arranged in an address book also known as a contact list and can include name address information telephone numbers and email addresses. Many of these address book systems offer features such as speed dial voice dial custom ringtones and images to enhance the look and user experience of the address book. Address book options allow for various communication methods including voice call messaging and email.

In a conventional mobile communication device providing the address book operation a process of searching and dialing a specified phone number is performed as follows. First a user executes a menu mode of the portable communication device by manipulating a function button or a menu button provided on the portable communication device and selects an address book search operation by using a direction button or a numeral button. Then the user searches for a desired phone number by scrolling the address book using the direction button or inputting a name to be searched.

Many users have multiple address books associated with multiple devices. For example a user may have an address book for one or more mobile communications devices home computers work computers and game systems. Often many of the contacts are on multiple address books and the user is burdened with the task of entering and maintaining contact information for each contact in each of the address books. A redundant task that is both time consuming and tedious.

Software has been developed that allows two devices to be synchronized to establish a common address book. This is particularly beneficial for business professionals that use email applications to store contacts for their clients and other important contacts. The business professional may also have a mobile device such as a smart phone that combines traditional cellular telephone functions and personal digital assistant PDA functions in a single device. Synchronizing the contacts on the computer and on the smart phone ensures that the appropriate contact information is available whenever the professional is using either device. This also eliminates having to enter the same contact information into multiple devices.

People are constantly finding different ways to communicate and network both socially and professionally. The Internet has made communication easily accessible via email and instant messaging applications. In recent years networking websites have become popular and are becoming increasingly so. These websites allow people to share information and find others that share similar interests. Networking naturally increases the number of contacts a particular individual may have thus increasing the number of address book entries of contacts. This correspondingly increases the number of contacts that a user has to search to find and locate a desired contact.

According to exemplary embodiments an apparatus is provided for filtering an address book. Memory stores a program for providing address book services. A processor is functionally coupled to the memory and is responsive to computer executable instructions contained in the program. The processor is operative to read contacts of the address book of a user maintain an operative connection to a social networking site related to the user extract social networking communication data of the user from the social networking site and rank the contacts in the address book based on the social networking communication data of the user.

Additional features are realized through the techniques of the present disclosure. Other systems methods apparatus and or computer program products according to other embodiments are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of exemplary embodiments and features refer to the description and to the drawings.

Constantly the span of communications for people is increasing. This is due to a variety of reasons including but not limited to the growth of social networking tools such as Facebook MySpace and LinkedIn . Particularly in the younger demographic the number of contacts in an address book can easily reach 1 000 different people. At the same time having quick access to contacts is seen as extremely valuable. Even a slight reduction in the time to find a contact is quite valuable and would be a service differentiator.

Traditional methods of addressing the search problem in an address book are to use either user generated tags often very crude or an alphabetic sorting. These are simplistic methods that rely on direct user input and they become less efficient as address books grow in size. Moreover current personal address books are static data structures. They can be modified and or filtered but there are no dynamic characteristics.

Exemplary embodiments describe techniques to automatically filter an address book based on an extended social graph augmented by proximity and temporal communication patterns. Automatically filter refers to filtering contacts in an electronic address book without requiring user intervention.

Now turning to illustrates a block diagram as an example of a system in accordance with exemplary embodiments. The system includes communication devices which are for users A and B. User A utilizes the communication device and B utilizes the communication device . Throughout this disclosure when specifically referring to elements for a particular user A or B the designation a and b will be utilized. Otherwise discussions for the communication device and its related features apply to both users A and B utilizing respective communication device and

The communication device may be one or more computers cell phones mobile phones smart phones personal digital assistants and or any type of computing device. The communication device may include and or be coupled to memory a communication interface display user interfaces processors and software applications. The communication interface comprises hardware and software for communicating over a network . The user interfaces may include e.g. a track ball mouse pointing device keyboard touch screen etc for interacting with the communication device such as inputting information making selections and generally operating the communication device .

The communication device may include a subscriber identity module SIM on a removable SIM card which securely stores the service subscriber key IMSI used to identify a subscriber on mobile telephony devices such as mobile phones and computers. The SIM card allows users to change e.g. phones by simply removing the SIM card from one mobile phone and inserting it into another mobile phone or broadband telephony device.

The communication device may include one or more biometric devices for monitoring the user s biometrics such as heart rate body temperature breathing rate pitch and or volume in voice such as the change in pitch and or volume due to excitement and gait including the speed of movement such as sitting walking jogging running.

The communication device includes memory which may be a computer readable storage medium. One or more software applications such as such as application access control list program and an address book may reside on or be coupled to the memory and each comprises logic and software components to operate and function in accordance with exemplary embodiments in the form of computer executable instructions.

A server includes an autofilter application and the necessary hardware and software to operate as a server as understood by one skilled in the art. The application and autofilter application are configured to compile and analyze multiple sources of information to rank in order contacts in the address book based on the likelihood of the user intending to communicate with particular contacts and the highest ranked contacts are automatically suggested and displayed by the application and or autofilter application on display . At times in exemplary embodiments the application may determine the likelihood of the user intending to communicate with contacts based on sources of information and then display those contacts from the address book to the user on the display . At other times the autofilter application may determine the likelihood of the user intending to communicate with contacts based on sources of information and then cause the application to display those contacts from the address book to the user on the display . Also the application and autofilter application may cooperatively determine the likelihood of the user intending to communicate with contacts based on sources of information and display those contacts.

Exemplary embodiments are able to provide a more robust address book presentation approach by utilizing multiple sources of information to order the address book based on the likelihood of the user intending to communicate. In determining the likelihood of the user intending to communicate the application and autofilter application comprise an algorithm that is configured to take into account many factors collectively and or individually. Based on the factors the application and or autofilter application only display certain contacts such as one or more contact icons representing contacts determined and identified by the application and or autofilter application as contacts the user is likely to communicate with while not displaying and or suppressing other contacts not determined as likely to communicate as shown in . Also the application and or autofilter application can bring the contacts icons having the highest likelihood of the user intending to communicate with above all other contacts in a listing of contacts in the address book as shown in . In the contact icons and have been predicted by the application and or autofilter application as being contacts that the user is likely to communicate with based on the multiple sources of communication information. Box represents the remaining other contacts which may be in alphabetical order and or recently used order and the other contacts represented by box are positioned in order below the predicted contact icons and . Accordingly the user does not have to scroll through numerous other contacts to reach the intended contacts and or when the address book is opened.

For ease of understanding the following examples are described for user A but apply for B and any other users. In the following example B is considered as one of the contacts in the address book of user A along with other contacts in the address book of user A. One factor considered by the application and or autofilter application is the communication pattern of the user A. The communication pattern includes the time of day that user A communicates with a particular contact i.e. user B and how frequently has that contact B been been in communication with user A across various communication mediums e.g. such as by the multiple messaging capabilities including email text chat etc. and voice calls.

Another factor is the physical proximity between user A on communication device and the contact B on communication device . In determining proximity the application and or autofilter application may determine how close in space e.g. 5 feet 30 feet 100 feet 1 mile 2 miles 2 5 miles etc. the user A on communication device is to the contact B on communication device and then based on the B being within a predefined distance the application displays on display the contact icon of the user B. Also the application and or autofilter application may determine how close in space the B has been to contact B been over recent time e.g. such as last week 2 weeks 3 weeks month 2 months 3 months and or year. Based on user A having been in close proximity to contact to B in recent time and or based on user A communicating with B before during and or after the close proximity the application and or autofilter application may move the contact B up the list of contacts in the address book of user A. Further the application and or autofilter application may determine that whenever user A is within 30 miles or any determined distance of user B they communicate with one another on respective communication devices and . Accordingly the application and or autofilter application rank user B higher whenever this proximity e.g. 30 miles is determined between users A and B such that the application and or autofilter application causes B to display as a contact on display for user A and vice versa. All of which predicts user A intent to communicate before user A needs to search for contact user B who automatically is displayed on display . Also based on the different times of the day and the different days of the week that user A on communication device is in close proximity to contact B on communication device the application and or autofilter application are configured to display the contact icon of the user B before anticipating the times of the day that B has been in close proximity with the contact B. For example if the B is determined by the application and or autofilter application to be in close proximity to contact B and other contacts during lunch at e.g. 12 00 PM the application and or autofilter application automatically display on display the contact icons for contact B and the 2 other contacts i.e. lunch contacts at a time before lunch such as 11 00 10 00 and or 9 00 AM. This allows the user A to easily call text and or email these lunch contacts automatically displayed on display without having to scroll and or search through a list of contacts in the address book and when the address book is opened by user A the lunch contacts are at the very top of the list of contacts. Because of the time of day the application and or autofilter application may automatically designate these contacts as lunch time contacts just as shows family time contacts. The application and or autofilter application may determine that the close proximity of these lunch time contacts ends at 1 15 PM and accordingly the application and or autofilter application stops automatically displaying on the display these lunch time contacts for user A. The application and or autofilter application now displays other contacts based on the likelihood of the user A intending to communicate with those other contacts such as e.g. work time contacts shown in .

Note that when user A is referred to this also implies his corresponding communication device . Likewise when B is referred to this also implies his corresponding communication device

Another factor accounted for by the application and or autofilter application in displaying particular contacts on the display is social graph connectivity. Drawn from social network sites such as social networking sites and the application and or autofilter application determine which contacts the user A is directly connected to in the social networking sites and can move these contact icons up and or down in rank in the list of contacts in the address book based on being directly connected to the user A. The application and or autofilter application determines that contacts having direct connections to user A in social networking sites and are to be given more weight such that these contact having direct connections are moved up ranked higher in the contact list in the address book for quick selection by the user A. Also the display of contact icons is based on the order of relationships in the social networking sites and . For example 2nd and 3rd order relationships are given less weight than 1st order relationships for determining when and the priority for displaying contact icons. 1st order relationships in the social networking sites and may be direct friends of the user A while 2nd order relationships are be friends of user A s friends and so forth. The application and or autofilter application determines how many communications have been exchanged between contacts on the social networking sites and and the more communication such as email chats and or exchanging media like music videos pictures on the social networking site to a particular contact i.e. user B the higher that particular contact is moved up address book and or that contact icon is automatically displayed on the display .

More factors accounted for by the application and or autofilter application in displaying particular contacts on the display are the length and nature of messages. The application and or autofilter application are configured to determine that the length of messages and or messages with affective terms indicate more meaningful relationships. Longer messages including text email and or chat messages are weighed by the application and or autofilter application to move the B up the ranking order for contacts. These messages could be from the social networking sites and and or these messages could be directly sent and received from the communication device e.g. like sending a text or email without being on or connected to the social networking sites and . Affective terms and phrases may be predefined and stored e.g. in the database and or user profile and affective terms and phrases may include love like miss you see you soon along with other terms understood to show affection.

An additional factors accounted for i.e. weighed by the application and or autofilter application in displaying particular contacts on the display are used to the user A s and the user B s biometrics as determined by their respective biometric devices . For example the heart rate and or body temperature of the two people which are user A and B communicating in proximity to each other represent the strength of their relationship. Based on an increase in the heart rate and or body temperature for either and or both user A and B as determined by their respective biometric devices of their respective communication devices and the application and or autofilter application rank contact B higher in the address book as a result of biometrics. Likewise the application and or autofilter application can rank user A higher in the address book of user B.

Also the application and or autofilter application can rank contact B higher based on a change e.g. increase in breathing rate increase in pitch of voice and or increase in volume of voice for either and or both users A and B. Additionally if volume increases for a short burst matching a shout or yell if high pitch sounds are made like screeching tires and or if sounds are made like gun shouts the application and or autofilter application are configured to automatically display a contact number for 911 or other emergency services. Further via the biometrics device the application and or autofilter application may determine that when the user A s gait increases such as walking jogging and or running the user A communicates with the B and certain contacts during these times e.g. when exercising. As such then biometric device indicates to the application and or autofilter application that user A s gait increases to a predefine rate and or for a predefined length of time the application and or autofilter application display on display contact B and the certain contacts for this period of increased gait.

The application and or autofilter application are configured to combine several and or all factors indicators of importance to determine intent to communicate which is utilized to rank contacts of the address book . In particular using information contained in each of the domains yields a far more accurate prediction of intent to communicate some of these factors may be weigh more than others in determining ranking order and the weight of each factor ma changes based on time of day day of the week month of the year and or amount of communication. The address book will be ordered by the application and or autofilter application based on this estimated intent to communicate.

The address book may include any directory listing of persons and or businesses as contacts. This would include such things as a cell phone address book an email address book a list of friends on the social networking site e.g. Facebook a list of all college students in a city etc. In fact the larger the list the more useful the automated sort by communication intent becomes.

In one implementation of this type of intent to communicate service the centralized server may be utilized.

The autofilter application and or the application is configured to maintain connections to the social networking sites of the user A such as sites and on servers and and the autofilter application and or the application are configured to extract social networking communication data related to the user individually communicating with each of the contacts of the address book . The social networking site may be hosted on server and include social networking data of many different users including e.g. user A. Likewise the social networking site may be hosted on server and include its social networking data of many different users. To obtain and extract the user s social networking communication data respective software of the server and software of the server allow the autofilter application and or the application to parse through a user interface on the sites and and or to interact with an application programming interface API of the sites and .

The autofilter application and or the application can store e.g. in database and profile and provide authentication information for the user such as usernames and passwords for logging onto the servers and . Also the autofilter application and or the application may log into a single sign on website like e.g. OpenID to authenticate the user A for many different social networking sites. OpenID is an open standard that describes how users can be authenticated in a decentralized manner obviating the need for services to provide their own ad hoc systems and allowing users to consolidate their digital identities.

Social networking is extended beyond to web sites that are not normally thought of as social networking . For example e commerce sites contain extremely useful information about the types of purchases that are made. Anonymously computing the covariance of purchases between two individuals in one element in the social connection of the two individuals can be performed by the autofilter application and or the application to determine the intent to communicate with a contact. This information can be utilized to rank that contact.

The autofilter application and or the application are configured to access geographic location data about all contacts in the address book which may be utilized in proximity determinations between user A and respective contacts. The location data is not revealed to any end user but is used to compute similarity in geographic location over time with a weighted recency bias in the computation the computation is performed by the autofilter application and or the application to determine which contacts of the address book to provide with a higher ranking. The autofilter application and or the application may access and receive geographical location data from a home location register of a service provider and or a mobile switching center MSC . As a security measure the communication device may include an access control list ACL that allows the application to access and obtain geographic location data for the contacts of the user in address book but the ACL is restricted from access by the user.

The autofilter application and or the application are configured to maintain communication pattern data on all contacts of the address book as it relates to the user A and store the same in the database and or in the user A profile in user profiles . The communication pattern data is a collection for all communications on the communication device where these communications are not through or on the social networking sites and . The communication pattern data of the contacts in the address book include voice calls texts emails streaming etc. communicated between the user A and each of the contacts along with the physical proximity i.e. geographical location data length and natures of messages and biometrics as discussed herein. The higher the instances of communication in the communication pattern data as determined by the autofilter application and or the application the higher the ranking order for those particular contacts in the address book . Each instance of communication is each time the user communicates with one of the contacts and or vice versa and each instance of communication is added up for that particular contact in the address book which is stored in the database and or the user profile for the user. Also instances of communication such as morning or evening communication may be correlated with geographic proximity of the contact to the user A such that the autofilter application and or the application can rank higher certain contacts higher when a predefined proximity and communication when in this predefined proximity indicate an intent to communicate. In such cases the certain contacts will be displayed on the display based on this correlation.

As discussed herein the social networking communication data includes all communication on the social networking sites such as sites and between the user and the contacts in the address book . The autofilter application and or the application algorithmically combine these different sources of communication data both social networking communication data and communication pattern data and factors indicators along with the address book user s current geographical position to periodically update the address book based on changes to the ranking of all address book contacts.

Exemplary embodiments can improve the cellular mobile usage experience particularly for highly social connected customers. These customers tend to be high consumers of wireless services. Of course this solution is not limited to just cellular address books but to any directory type listing of individuals.

Note that that all social networking communication data and communication pattern data along with geographic location data of both the contacts in the address book and the user may be utilized by the autofilter application and or the application to determine how to rank contacts for display on the display . show how the autofilter application and or the application can automatically display the highest ranked contacts on the display a given period of time and or continuously without requiring the user to select access and or scroll through the address book at any time. The address book may be suppressed i.e. not visually shown on the display screen with the highest ranked contact icons and the address book is shown with dashed lines in to indicate that as an option the user may choose to display an icon for the address book or the user may not choose to display the dashed line address book . In other conventional icons may be displayed on the display which include favorites friends family icons selected by the user under a plan that allows no charges to e.g. 5 contacts mail message icons web browser icons music icons social network icons etc. Note that the favorite icons of friends family are input and selected by the user and are not automatically determined ranked and displayed according to exemplary embodiments.

In the highest ranking contacts in order of first second and third are contact and . Box represents the remaining contacts not having the highest ranking and these remaining contacts may be in alphabetical order and or recently used order. In one implementation the remaining contacts may also be ranked as determined by the autofilter application and or the application based on the social networking communication data the communication pattern data and geographical location data discussed herein.

Note that the contacts and are not ranked simply based on frequency of use and or recently used but are ranked based on the social networking communication data the communication pattern data and geographical location data discussed herein so at every moment the user A always has quick access to the displayed contacts that the user intends to communicate with as determined by the autofilter application and or the application .

At operation the autofilter application and or the application read contacts of the address book of the user.

At operation the autofilter application and or the application maintain an operative connection to a social networking site related to the user.

At operation the autofilter application and or the application extract social networking communication data of the user from the social networking site e.g. social networking sites and or on the servers .

At operation the autofilter application and or the application rank the contacts in the address book based on the social networking communication data of the user.

Further when extracting social networking communication data of the user from the social networking site the autofilter application and or the application determines a number of instances of communication on the social networking site with contacts of the address book where the instance of communication is a communication between the user and the contacts on the social network site. The autofilter application and or the application rank the contacts higher who have a higher number of instances of communication with the user on the social networking site and or who have affectionate terms phrases in communication messages.

Also the instances of communication of the social network site between the user and the contacts include electronic mail email texts exchanging media comprising at least one of pictures videos music and documents and playing social networking games. Maintaining operative connections to a social networking site related to the user include the autofilter application and or the application operatively logging into one or more social networking sites to determine instances of communication between the user and contacts of the address book on the social networking sites and each of the instances of communication and the type of communication on the social networking sites are used to rank in order the contacts of the address book.

The autofilter application and or the application maintain and store in profiles and or database communication pattern data between the user and the contacts of the address book. The communication pattern data comprises time of day the user communicates with each of the contacts across communication mediums how frequently the user communicates with each of the contacts across the communication mediums and a number of instances of communication that the user communicates with each of the contacts across the communication mediums all of which is utilized by the autofilter application and or the application for ranking certain contacts higher in the address book .

When the autofilter application and or the application ranks certain contacts higher in the address book based on the time of day the user communicates with the certain contacts the certain contacts ranked higher based on the time of day can change ranking when the time of day no longer corresponds to their respective time for communicating with the user. To rank contacts based on communication pattern data a weighted combination of the time of day the user communicates with the certain contact how frequently the user communicates with the certain contacts and the number of instances of communication that the user communicates with the certain contacts are combined by the autofilter application and or the application . The communication mediums on the communication device may include voice calls emails text and or streaming between the user and the contacts and this communication pattern data is not extracted from social networking sites.

The autofilter application and or the application access geographic location data about the contacts of the address book at any point in time and rank certain contacts in a higher order in the address book based on the geographic location data of the certain contacts indicating that the certain contacts are at least one of within a predefined proximity to the user and nearing a predefined proximity to the user. The autofilter application and or the application parse messages between the user and the contacts to determine affective terms indicative of meaningful relationships and rank certain contacts higher in the address book based on the messages including the affective terms.

Generally in terms of hardware architecture the computer may include one or more processors computer readable storage memory and one or more input and or output I O devices that are communicatively coupled via a local interface not shown . The local interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface may have additional elements such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software that can be stored in the memory . The processor can be virtually any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU a data signal processor DSP or an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the computer and the processor may be a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or a macroprocessor.

The computer readable memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM programmable read only memory PROM tape compact disc read only memory CD ROM disk diskette cartridge cassette or the like etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in the computer readable memory may include one or more separate programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The software in the memory includes a suitable operating system O S compiler source code and one or more applications of the exemplary embodiments. As illustrated the application comprises numerous functional components for implementing the features processes methods functions and operations of the exemplary embodiments. The application of the computer may represent numerous applications agents software components modules interfaces controllers etc. as discussed herein but the application is not meant to be a limitation.

The operating system may control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

The application s may employ a service oriented architecture which may be a collection of services that communicate with each. Also the service oriented architecture allows two or more services to coordinate and or perform activities e.g. on behalf of one another . Each interaction between services can be self contained and loosely coupled so that each interaction is independent of any other interaction.

Further the application may be a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program then the program is usually translated via a compiler such as the compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the O S . Furthermore the application can be written as a an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or b a procedure programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions.

The I O devices may include input devices or peripherals such as for example but not limited to a mouse keyboard scanner microphone camera etc. Furthermore the I O devices may also include output devices or peripherals for example but not limited to a printer display etc. Finally the I O devices may further include devices that communicate both inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a NIC or modulator demodulator for accessing remote devices other files devices systems or a network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc. The I O devices also include components for communicating over various networks such as the Internet or an intranet. The I O devices may be connected to and or communicate with the processor utilizing Bluetooth connections and cables via e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB ports serial ports parallel ports FireWire HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface etc. .

When the computer is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the computer pursuant to the software. The application and the O S are read in whole or in part by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

When the application is implemented in software it should be noted that the application can be stored on virtually any computer readable storage medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method.

The application can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus server or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium can be any means that can store read write communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical or semiconductor system apparatus or device.

More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic or optical a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc memory CDROM CD R W optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed or punched as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

In exemplary embodiments where the application is implemented in hardware the application can be implemented with any one or a combination of the following technologies which are each well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

It is understood that the computer includes non limiting examples of software and hardware components that may be included in various devices servers routers switches and systems discussed herein and it is understood that additional software and hardware components may be included in the various devices and systems discussed in exemplary embodiments.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations element components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated

The flow diagrams depicted herein are just one example. There may be many variations to this diagram or the steps or operations described therein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified. All of these variations are considered a part of the claimed invention.

While the exemplary embodiments of the invention have been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

