---

title: Emergency aircraft landing systems and methods
abstract: Emergency aircraft landing systems and methods are described. In one aspect, an emergency landing apparatus includes a support structure for a fuselage and wings of an aircraft and a control system. The control system includes a processor and a memory containing computer program instructions executable by the processor. Execution of the computer program instructions causes an interface on the aircraft to exchange information between an aircraft guidance and control system on the aircraft and the control system. The computer program instructions further synchronize the speed and position of the emergency aircraft landing apparatus on a runway with the speed and flight path of the aircraft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09376218&OS=09376218&RS=09376218
owner: King Saud University
number: 09376218
owner_city: Riyadh
owner_country: SA
publication_date: 20101220
---
Many types of aircraft have retractable landing gear that is retracted after take off and extended prior to landing. Retractable landing gear provides improved aerodynamics of the airplane by reducing drag caused by fixed landing gear. However retractable landing gear may occasionally malfunction. For example the mechanisms that extend the retractable landing gear may not work properly such that a portion of the landing gear is not fully extended. In most situations an airplane cannot land properly unless all landing gear components are fully extended.

If an airplane s landing gear does not extend properly prior to landing an emergency landing procedure is implemented. In some situations fire suppression foam or other materials are sprayed onto the runway prior to an emergency landing. In other situations the airplane lands on an untreated runway with the damaged landing gear. In either case the airplane typically experiences significant damage and the passengers on the airplane may be injured due to the direct contact of the aircraft fuselage and or wings with the runway. Thus it is desirable to provide emergency landing procedures that allow an airplane with malfunctioning landing gear to land with reduced damage to the airplane and reduced risk of injury to the passengers.

The described systems and methods relate to an emergency aircraft landing structure and the operation thereof. A specific emergency aircraft landing apparatus includes a support structure for a fuselage and wings of an aircraft as well as a control system. The control system has a processor and a memory containing computer program instructions executable by the processor. Executing the computer program instructions causes an interface on the aircraft to exchange information between an aircraft guidance and control system on the aircraft and the control system. The computer program instructions also synchronize the speed and position of the emergency aircraft landing apparatus on a runway with the speed and flight path of the aircraft.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The Figures discussed herein are not necessarily drawn to scale. Some dimensions may be changed to better illustrate specific details or relationships.

The emergency aircraft landing systems and methods described herein utilize a structure that allows an airplane with malfunctioning landing gear to land on a runway with reduced damage to the airplane and reduced injury to the passengers. In particular the structure provides a moveable landing platform that prevents the airplane from contacting the surface of the runway. The structure is of sufficient size and strength to support the weight of the airplane during an emergency landing procedure. The structure is also capable of being accelerated and maneuvered to match the landing speed and landing flight path of the airplane. In particular implementations a single emergency aircraft landing system is used in multiple emergency landing procedures.

Particular examples discussed herein include specific structural configurations and component placements. However the present invention is capable of implementation in a variety of different structural configurations and arrangements of components. The terms airplane and aircraft are used herein to refer to any type of vehicle or device capable of flying and landing on a runway or other surface.

Emergency landing structure includes multiple wheels and other components that allow the structure to be maneuvered into alignment with the flight path of airplane . As discussed below emergency landing structure also includes one or more motors propulsion systems and the like to maneuver and accelerate the structure for proper alignment under airplane as it lands on the structure. Emergency landing structure communicates with airplane and an aircraft control center to determine the proper positioning of the emergency landing structure. For example emergency landing structure may communicate with aircraft guidance and control system to obtain various information about airplane such as airspeed altitude flight path fuselage pitch and roll information and the like. Alternatively emergency landing structure may receive information about airplane from another source that is in communication with the airplane such as aircraft control center . In a particular embodiment aircraft guidance and control system is an autopilot system.

The position and speed of emergency landing structure is continually monitored and updated to maintain proper speed and alignment with airplane . This maintaining of proper speed and alignment with airplane is also referred to as synchronizing emergency landing structure with the airplane. Additional details regarding emergency landing structure and the control of that structure are discussed herein. In the example of emergency landing structure is operated on runway . In other environments emergency landing structure is operated on any surface that allows the structure to synchronize with airplane and support the weight of the airplane during the emergency landing procedure.

Emergency landing structure also includes multiple cylinders and cushions positioned within center support . In a particular embodiment cylinders and cushions are manufactured using a durable rubber compound. In that embodiment cylinders are installed such that the cylinders rotate in one direction toward the front of emergency landing structure . As oriented in the front of emergency landing structure is toward the right side of in the general area of vertical arms . This unidirectional rotation of cylinders allows the airplane s fuselage to slide forward with respect to emergency landing structure for proper positioning of the fuselage. Cylinders prevent backward movement of the fuselage to help maintain the fuselage position within emergency landing structure as the airplane and structure decelerate. Cushions protect the bottom of the fuselage as it contacts emergency landing structure and provide friction between the fuselage and the structure to reduce the likelihood of the fuselage slipping once it is positioned on the structure.

Emergency landing structure can be manufactured from a variety of materials such as aluminum steel or any other material or combination of materials. In a particular embodiment emergency landing structure is constructed using a framework of support elements rather than a solid structure. That framework minimizes the weight of emergency landing structure while providing the structural integrity necessary to withstand the weight of the landing airplane.

In addition to cushions other portions of emergency landing structure may be covered with rubber or similar material to minimize damage as the airplane contacts the structure. In particular embodiments rubber panels are placed on emergency landing structure in locations likely to come in contact with the fuselage or wings of the airplane.

Emergency landing structure further includes one or more lights to assist the pilot of the airplane in making visual contact with the structure and positioning the airplane onto the structure. Although shows two lights positioned at the rear of emergency landing structure alternate embodiments may include any number of lights positioned at any number of locations on the structure. Additionally lights may be of any color or multiple colors.

The dimensions associated with emergency landing structure will vary depending on the size of the aircraft using the structure. Specific emergency landing structures can be designed to accommodate multiple aircraft models that fall within a particular range of sizes and weights.

In a particular embodiment of emergency landing structure the structure is operated from a remote location and no personnel are in direct contact with the structure. In other embodiments an operator is present in a cabin or other portion of emergency landing structure for the purposes of controlling the structure communicating with the landing airplane and so forth.

One or more wheels include a steering mechanism that allows the wheel to turn thereby changing the position or direction of movement of emergency landing structure . One or more wheels also include a brake mechanism to slow or stop the movement of emergency landing structure . The brake mechanism is used to adjust the speed of emergency landing structure during an emergency landing procedure and to stop the structure after an airplane has landed on the structure. Additionally brake mechanisms can be attached to multiple wheels to permit steering of emergency landing structure using a differential braking technique. Differential braking applies different braking forces to different wheels causing emergency landing structure to rotate or turn in the direction of the greater braking force.

In a particular embodiment wheel is located near the front of emergency landing structure and wheels are located near the rear of the structure. In that embodiment wheels are positioned in the middle of emergency landing structure and wheels are located near the outer edges of side supports . Alternate embodiments may include any number of wheels arranged in any configuration capable of supporting the weight of emergency landing structure as well as the forces applied by an airplane landing on the structure.

Emergency landing structure also includes a propulsion device such as a jet engine to control the speed of the structure as it moves on the runway or other surface. Particular embodiments may include multiple propulsion devices to power emergency landing structure and in some situations assist with the steering and maneuvering of the structure. For example a propulsion device can be mounted near the outer edges of both side supports . In this example application of different forces to the propulsion devices produce rotational forces on emergency landing structure resulting in a steering action. In particular embodiments propulsion device is capable of a reverse thrust mode of operation that assists with the slowing or stopping of emergency landing structure after an airplane has landed on the structure.

In alternate embodiments one or more motorized wheels or other drive mechanisms are used instead of or in addition to propulsion device . For example a motorized wheel is used to maneuver emergency landing structure at slow speeds such as moving the structure from a storage location to a runway for use in an emergency landing procedure. In this example propulsion device accelerates emergency landing structure up to a speed that matches the landing speed of an approaching airplane.

Emergency landing structure also includes one or more mechanisms that adjust the pitch and lateral angle of the structure to correspond to the pitch and roll information received from an approaching airplane. These mechanisms allow emergency landing structure to more closely align with the orientation of the landing airplane and better support the airplane as it lands on the structure. The mechanisms that adjust the pitch and lateral angle of the structure include for example one or more hydraulic adjustments to structural components.

Control system includes a communication module a processor and a memory . Communication module allows control system to communicate with other devices and systems such as an airplane and an aircraft control center. Communication module may communicate data via a wired or wireless communication link using any data communication protocol. Processor executes various instructions to implement the functionality provided by control system . Memory stores these instructions as well as other data used by processor and other modules contained in control system .

Control system also includes a motor propulsion control module that controls one or more motorized wheels propulsion devices and similar components associated with the emergency landing structure. Motor propulsion control module controls the motorized wheels and propulsion devices based on input signals received from other components in control system such as communication module and processor . A steering control module controls one or more steering mechanisms in the emergency landing structure such as steerable wheels and propulsion devices. A brake control module controls one or more braking mechanisms in the emergency landing structure such as wheel brakes and propulsion devices with reverse thrust capability.

The emergency landing structure also includes a maneuvering control module which controls or manages the operation of multiple systems to maneuver the emergency landing structure on a runway or other surface. Maneuvering control module controls for example the speed location and direction of movement of the emergency landing structure. Maneuvering control module also controls adjustments to the pitch and lateral angling of the emergency landing structure to synchronize the structure with the airplane. A user interface allows ground control personnel maintenance personnel and other users to interact with the various components of control system . In certain embodiments user interface also allows a user to interact with control system from a remote location. In these embodiments the remote user accesses user interface by sending signals via communication module . User interface allows a user to control one or more functions of the emergency landing structure such as the propulsion steering and braking functions performed by various devices associated with the structure.

Procedure continues by calculating the airplane s estimated location and speed at time of landing block . The emergency landing structure then is maneuvered based on the current airspeed and flight path of the airplane block . In a particular embodiment the direction of motion of the emergency landing structure is adjusted to match the flight path of the airplane and the speed of the structure is adjusted to ensure that the structure arrives at the estimated landing location simultaneously with the airplane.

The procedure continues to monitor the airplane and identifies any changes in the airplane altitude airspeed or flight path block . This monitoring can be performed automatically by the control system in the emergency landing structure by a user in the airplane such as the pilot or by another system located remotely from the emergency landing structure.

The speed position and or direction of movement of the emergency landing structure are adjusted based on any changes in the airplane s altitude airspeed or flight path block . These adjustments also can be made automatically by the control system in the emergency landing structure by a pilot or other user in the airplane or by another system located remotely from the emergency landing structure. In a particular implementation in which the maneuvering of the emergency landing structure is performed by a user in the airplane the user is presented with visual and or audio information regarding the speed position and direction of the emergency landing structure. Based on the presented information the user makes necessary adjustments to the emergency landing structure and or the airplane to maintain synchronization between the emergency landing structure and the airplane.

If the airplane has not yet landed in the emergency landing structure block the procedure returns to block to continue monitoring the airplane for any changes in the airplane altitude airspeed or flight path. If the airplane has landed in the emergency landing structure braking devices on the structure are applied to decelerate the structure and the supported airplane block .

In a specific implementation the control system in the emergency landing structure initially handles the synchronization of the structure with the airplane. As the airplane approaches the emergency landing structure a user on the airplane may take control of the maneuvering of the structure until the airplane has landed on the structure. For example the pilot of the airplane can override the operation of the control system in the emergency landing structure thereby allowing the pilot to control both the airplane and the emergency landing structure.

Procedure continues as the control system receives speed and flight path information from the airplane block . The control system then synchronizes the speed and position of the emergency landing structure on a runway with the speed and flight path of the airplane block . The control system also receives fuselage pitch and roll information from the airplane block . Based on the fuselage pitch and roll information the control system configures the pitch and lateral angle of components of the emergency landing structure based on the fuselage pitch and roll information received from the airplane block .

Particular embodiments of the emergency landing structure discussed herein can be configured as an emergency landing simulator used to simulate or practice emergency landing procedures. In this situation the emergency landing simulator may not have the structural strength to support the landing aircraft. However since the structure is used as a simulator the airplane does not actually land on the structure. This simulator structure allows pilots operators and other users to practice emergency landing procedures using a similar structure such that they are proficient in the case of a real emergency landing procedure using a non simulator emergency landing structure.

Computing device includes one or more processor s one or more memory device s one or more interface s one or more mass storage device s one or more Input Output I O device s and a display device all of which are coupled to a bus . Processor s include one or more processors or controllers that execute instructions stored in memory device s and or mass storage device s . Processor s also may include various types of computer readable media such as cache memory.

Memory device s include various computer readable media such as volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile memory e.g. read only memory ROM . Memory device s may also include rewritable ROM such as Flash memory.

Mass storage device s include various computer readable media such as magnetic tapes magnetic disks optical disks solid state memory e.g. Flash memory and so forth. As shown in a particular mass storage device is a hard disk drive . Various drives may also be included in mass storage device s to enable reading from and or writing to the various computer readable media. Mass storage device s include removable media and or non removable media.

I O device s include various devices that allow data and or other information to be input to or retrieved from computing device . Example I O device s include cursor control devices keyboards keypads microphones monitors or other display devices speakers printers network interface cards modems lenses CCDs or other image capture devices and the like.

Display device includes any type of device capable of displaying information to one or more users of computing device . Examples of display device include a monitor display terminal video projection device and the like.

Interface s include various interfaces that allow computing device to interact with other systems devices or computing environments. Example interface s include any number of different network interfaces such as interfaces to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs wireless networks and the Internet. Other interfaces include user interface and peripheral device interface .

Bus allows processor s memory device s interface s mass storage device s and I O device s to communicate with one another as well as other devices or components coupled to bus . Bus represents one or more of several types of bus structures such as a system bus PCI bus IEEE 1394 bus USB bus and so forth.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components are shown herein as discrete blocks although it is understood that such programs and components may reside at various times in different storage components of computing device and are executed by processor s . Alternatively the systems and procedures described herein can be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware software and or firmware. For example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs can be programmed to carry out one or more of the systems and procedures described herein.

Although the emergency aircraft landing systems and methods have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological operations or actions it is understood that the implementations defined in the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or actions described. Rather the specific emergency aircraft landing features and operations are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed subject matter.

